Genesis1:1 In the beginning, God made the heavens and the earth." 
Genesis1:2 The earth was without shape and it was empty. Deep water covered the earth and everywhere was dark. The Spirit of God moved above the water. 
Genesis1:3 God said, ‘There will be light!’ And there was light." 
Genesis1:4 God saw that the light was good. He caused the light and the dark to be separate. 
Genesis1:5 God called the light ‘day’. He called the dark ‘night’. Evening passed and then it was morning. That was the first day. 
Genesis1:6 Then God said, ‘A wide space will appear between the waters. So the waters will be in two separate places.’" 
Genesis1:7 So God made this wide space. He made the water under the space separate from the water that was above it. What God said happened. 
Genesis1:8 God called the wide space ‘sky’. Evening passed and then it was morning. That was the second day. 
Genesis1:9 God said, ‘The water that is under the sky will come together in one place. Then dry ground will appear.’ And what God said happened." 
Genesis1:10 God called the dry ground ‘land’. He called the water that had come together ‘sea’. God looked at what he had made. He saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:11 Then God said, ‘The land will cause plants to grow. There will be plants with their seeds and trees with their fruits. Each kind of plant and tree will have its own seeds and fruits.’ And what God said happened." 
Genesis1:12 All kinds of plants and trees began to grow in the ground. The plants made seeds. The trees made fruits with seeds in them. Each plant made its own kind of seeds. God looked at what he had made. He saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:13 Evening passed and then it was morning. That was the third day. 
Genesis1:14 God said, ‘There will be lights all across the sky. They will make the day different from the night. They will show the seasons, days and years." 
Genesis1:15 The lights in the sky will give light to the earth.’ And what God said happened. 
Genesis1:16 God made two great lights. The brighter light ruled over the day. The less bright light ruled over the night. God also made the stars. 
Genesis1:17 God put all these lights in the sky to shine their light on the earth. 
Genesis1:18 They were to rule over the day and night. They were to make the time of light separate from the time of dark. God looked at what he had made. He saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:19 Evening passed and then it was morning. That was the fourth day. 
Genesis1:20 God said, ‘The waters will become full with many living things. Birds will appear and fly above the earth, all across the sky.’" 
Genesis1:21 God made big animals to live in the sea. He made every different kind of living thing that filled the sea. He made every different kind of bird to fly in the sky. God looked at what he had made. He saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:22 God blessed the animals and the birds. He said to them, ‘Give birth to many young ones, so that you grow in number. Fill all the water in the seas. The birds also should become very many, all across the earth.’" 
Genesis1:23 Evening passed and then it was morning. That was the fifth day. 
Genesis1:24 God said, ‘Different kinds of animals will now appear on the land. There will be farm animals and wild animals. There will also be other small animals that move along the ground. There will be many kinds of animals and each kind will be different.’ And what God said happened." 
Genesis1:25 God made the different kinds of wild animals and the different kinds of farm animals. He made all the different kinds of animals that move along the ground. God looked at what he had made. He saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:26 Then God said, ‘We will make humans so that they are very much like us. They will rule over the fish in the sea and over the birds in the sky. They will rule over the farm animals. They will rule over the whole earth and all the animals that move along the ground.’" 
Genesis1:27 God made humans. He made them to be like himself. He made them to be male and female. 
Genesis1:28 God blessed them. He said to them, ‘Give birth to children. Grow in number. Fill the earth and rule over it. Rule over the fish in the sea. Rule over the birds in the sky. Rule over every different kind of living animal that moves along the ground.’" 
Genesis1:29 Then God said to them, ‘Listen! I now give to you every plant on the earth as your food. I give you every plant that has seeds in it. I give you every tree that has fruit with a seed in it. I give them to you for your food." 
Genesis1:30 I give to the animals green plants for their food. It will be food for all the animals on the earth, all the birds in the sky and all the animals that move along the ground. Everything that has life may eat every kind of green plant.’ And what God said happened." 
Genesis1:31 God looked at everything that he had made. He saw that it was very good. Evening passed. And then it was morning. That was the sixth day. 
Genesis2:1 In that way God finished making the heavens and the earth, and everything that was in them." 
Genesis2:2 The seventh day came. Then God stopped the work that he had been doing. He had finished his work and he rested on the seventh day. 
Genesis2:3 God blessed the seventh day. He made it a special day, because he had finished making everything. He did not work on that day." 
Genesis2:4 This is what happened when God made the heavens and the earth. When the Lord God made the heavens and the earth," 
Genesis2:5 there were no plants or grasses growing on the earth. That was because the Lord God had not sent any rain on the earth. Also, there was nobody to dig the soil so that plants would grow." 
Genesis2:6 But streams of water were coming up from the earth. The water made all the top of the ground wet. 
Genesis2:7 Then the Lord God took some soil from the ground and he made a man. He breathed air into the nose of the man to give him life. So the man became alive. 
Genesis2:8 The Lord God planted a garden. It was in the east, in a place called Eden. God took the man that he had made and he put him in the garden." 
Genesis2:9 The Lord God made all kinds of trees grow from the ground there. The trees were beautiful to look at. The fruit from the trees was good for people to eat. In the middle of the garden were two special trees. One was the tree that gives life. The other was the tree that gives knowledge of what is good and what is evil. 
Genesis2:10 A river began in Eden. It went through the garden and it gave water for the ground. After that, it became four separate rivers." 
Genesis2:11 The name of the first river is the Pishon. It goes through the whole land of Havilah. There is gold in that land. 
Genesis2:12 The gold there is very good. Bdellium and onyx stone are also in Havilah. 
Genesis2:13 The name of the second river is the Gihon. It goes through the whole land of Cush. 
Genesis2:14 The third river is called the Tigris. It goes along the east side of Assyria. The fourth river is called the Euphrates. 
Genesis2:15 The Lord God took the man and he put him in the Garden of Eden. God wanted the man to work in the garden and to take care of it. 
Genesis2:16 Then the Lord God told the man, ‘You may eat the fruit from any tree in the garden, as much as you like." 
Genesis2:17 But you must not eat any fruit from the tree that gives knowledge of good and evil. If you do eat fruit from that tree, that day you will certainly die.’" 
Genesis2:18 Then the Lord God said, ‘It is not good for the man to live alone. I will make a helper who is right for him.’" 
Genesis2:19 The Lord God took soil from the ground and he made all the animals and birds. He brought them to the man. God wanted to know what names the man would call them. Whatever the man called each living thing, that became its name." 
Genesis2:20 So the man gave names to the farm animals, to the birds in the sky and to all the other animals. But none of these animals was the right helper for the man." 
Genesis2:21 So the Lord God caused the man to sleep. While the man was sleeping, God took a rib from the man. Then he closed up the place in his body and he covered it again." 
Genesis2:22 The Lord God used the man's rib to make a woman. He brought the woman to the man. 
Genesis2:23 Then the man said, ‘Finally, this is someone who is right for me. She has bones that are taken from my bones. Her body comes from my body. I will call her “woman” because God used me, a man, to make her.’" 
Genesis2:24 Because of this, when a man marries, he leaves his father and his mother. Instead, God joins the man and his wife together. The two people become as one body." 
Genesis2:25 The man and his wife were not wearing any clothes. But they did not feel ashamed. 
Genesis3:1 The Lord God made many wild animals. But the snake was the most clever of them all. The snake asked the woman, ‘Did God say, “You must not eat the fruit from any tree in the garden”? Is that really true?’" 
Genesis3:2 The woman replied, ‘We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden." 
Genesis3:3 But God said, “You must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden. You must not even touch it. If you do that, you will die.” ’" 
Genesis3:4 Then the snake said to the woman, ‘No, you will not die." 
Genesis3:5 God knows that when you eat the fruit from this tree, you will understand things. You will become like God himself. You will know about good things and evil things.’" 
Genesis3:6 The woman looked at the fruit on the tree. She saw that it would be good to eat, and it was beautiful to look at. She wanted to eat it because it would make her become wise. So she took some fruit and she ate it. Then she gave some of the fruit to her husband who was with her. He also ate it." 
Genesis3:7 Then they understood what they had done. They realized that they were not wearing any clothes. So they took some leaves from fig trees. They tied them together to cover their bodies. 
Genesis3:8 In the evening there was a nice cool wind. The Lord God walked in the garden. The man and the woman heard the sound of the Lord God. They hid themselves behind some trees, so that God would not see them." 
Genesis3:9 The Lord God called out to the man. He said to him, ‘Where are you?’" 
Genesis3:10 The man replied, ‘I heard you in the garden. I was afraid because I had no clothes. So I hid myself from you.’" 
Genesis3:11 The Lord God said, ‘Who told you that you had no clothes? Have you eaten fruit from the tree that I said you must not eat?’" 
Genesis3:12 The man said, ‘It was the woman that you put here with me. She gave me some fruit from the tree. So I ate it.’" 
Genesis3:13 Then the Lord God said to the woman, ‘Why have you done a thing like that?’ The woman replied, ‘It was the snake. The snake deceived me with a lie. So I ate the fruit.’" 
Genesis3:14 The Lord God said to the snake, ‘Because you have done this, I will curse you. Among all the farm animals and wild animals, you are the one that I will curse. From now on, you will move across the ground on your stomach. You will eat dust from the ground for your whole life." 
Genesis3:15 I will cause you and the woman to become enemies. Your descendants and her descendants will always be enemies. One of her descendants will attack your head. You will attack his heel.’ 
Genesis3:16 God said to the woman, ‘I will cause you to have great pain when you give birth to children. You will want to please your husband. But he will rule over you as your master.’" 
Genesis3:17 Then God said to Adam, ‘You listened to your wife and you did what she said. You ate fruit from the tree after I told you, “You must not eat fruit from this tree.” Because you did that, I will curse the ground. You will have to work very hard to make plants grow in it for your food. It will be like this for your whole life." 
Genesis3:18 Thorn bushes and thistles will grow in the ground. But you will eat plants that grow in the fields. 
Genesis3:19 You will have to work hard for a long time before you have any food to eat. You will do this for your whole life until you die. Then you will return into the ground. That is where you came from. I made you from the soil of the ground, and you will become soil again.’" 
Genesis3:20 Adam gave his wife a name. He called her Eve. This was because she would become the mother of all people. 
Genesis3:21 The Lord God made clothes for Adam and Eve to wear. He used the skins from animals to make them. 
Genesis3:22 The Lord God said, ‘The man has now become like one of us because he understands good and evil. So we must not let him take fruit from the tree that gives life. If he eats that fruit, he will live for ever.’" 
Genesis3:23 So the Lord God sent Adam out of the Garden of Eden. To get his food, Adam had to dig the ground that God had used to make him." 
Genesis3:24 Then God put cherubs to be guards for the garden. God put them on the east side of the garden. There was also a sword of fire that moved quickly from side to side. As a result, nobody could go near to the tree that gives life." 
Genesis4:1 Adam had sex with his wife, Eve. She became pregnant. She gave birth to Cain. She said, ‘With the Lord 's help, I have given birth to a son.’" 
Genesis4:2 Some time later, Eve gave birth to Cain's brother. She called him Abel. When they had grown to become men, Abel took care of sheep. Cain worked on the land as a farmer." 
Genesis4:3 One day, it was time for the harvest. Cain brought to the Lord some of his crops as an offering." 
Genesis4:4 But Abel brought to God some of the first lambs that his sheep had given birth to. He brought pieces of fat from the best of his lambs to offer them to God. Abel and his gift pleased the Lord. 
Genesis4:5 But God was not pleased with Cain and his gift. So Cain became very angry. His face looked sad. 
Genesis4:6 Then the Lord said to Cain, ‘Why are you angry? Why do you look sad?" 
Genesis4:7 If you do what is right, I will accept you. But if you do not do the right thing, sin will be very near to you. It will be like a wild animal at your door that is ready to eat you. But you must become its master.’" 
Genesis4:8 One day Cain said to his brother Abel, ‘We should go out to the fields.’ While they were in the fields, Cain attacked his brother Abel. He killed Abel." 
Genesis4:9 Then the Lord said to Cain, ‘Where is Abel, your brother?’ Cain replied, ‘I do not know where he is. Must I always keep my brother safe?’" 
Genesis4:10 Then the Lord God said, ‘Why have you done this bad thing? Now your brother's blood is lying there on the ground. That is like his voice which is shouting to me for help." 
Genesis4:11 The ground received your brother's blood when you killed him. As a result, the ground no longer accepts you. It has brought a curse on you." 
Genesis4:12 When you work hard to dig the ground, no plants will grow in it for your food. You will travel from place to place. You will not have your own home.’" 
Genesis4:13 Cain said to the Lord, ‘That punishment is too much! It will give me too much pain." 
Genesis4:14 Now you are making me leave my home here on the land. I will be far away from where you are. I will be a traveller without a home. If someone sees me, they will kill me.’" 
Genesis4:15 But the Lord said to Cain, ‘No! If anyone kills Cain, I will punish that person seven times more than I have punished you.’ Then the Lord put a special mark on Cain. This was to tell other people that they must not kill Cain." 
Genesis4:16 Cain went away from the Lord. He went to live in the land called Nod, which is east of Eden." 
Genesis4:17 Cain had sex with his wife. She became pregnant and she gave birth to Enoch. Cain started to build a city. He called the city Enoch because that was his son's name. 
Genesis4:18 Enoch became the father of Irad. Irad became the father of Mehujael. Mehujael became the father of Methushael. Methushael became the father of Lamech. 
Genesis4:19 Lamech married two women. One was called Adah. The other was called Zillah. 
Genesis4:20 Adah gave birth to Jabal. Jabal became the father of people who live in tents and they take care of animals. 
Genesis4:21 Jabal had a brother called Jubal. Jubal became the father of people who make music with harps and flutes. 
Genesis4:22 Zillah gave birth to a son. His name was Tubal-Cain. He used bronze and iron to make tools. Tubal-Cain had a sister. Her name was Naamah. 
Genesis4:23 Lamech said to his two wives, ‘Adah and Zillah, listen to me! My wives, hear my words! A man attacked me, so I killed him. Yes, I killed a young man because he hurt me." 
Genesis4:24 If someone kills Cain, God will punish that person seven times more. But if someone attacks me, I will punish that person 77 times more!’" 
Genesis4:25 Adam again had sex with his wife, Eve. She gave birth to another son. She called him Seth. Eve said, ‘God has given me another child to take the place of Abel, because Cain killed Abel.’" 
Genesis4:26 Later Seth had a son and he called him Enosh. At that time, people began to use the name of the Lord to worship him." 
Genesis5:1 This is the report about Adam and his family. When God made men and women, he made them like himself." 
Genesis5:2 God made male and female people and he called them ‘human’. He blessed them. 
Genesis5:3 When Adam was 130 years old, he had a son who was like him. Adam called him Seth." 
Genesis5:4 After Seth was born, Adam lived for 800 years. During this time, he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:5 Adam was 930 years old when he died. 
Genesis5:6 When Seth was 105 years old, he had a son. He called him Enosh." 
Genesis5:7 After Enosh was born, Seth lived for 807 years. During this time, he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:8 Seth was 912 years old when he died. 
Genesis5:9 When Enosh was 90 years old, he had a son. He called him Kenan." 
Genesis5:10 After Kenan was born, Enosh lived for 815 years. During this time, he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:11 Enosh was 905 years old when he died. 
Genesis5:12 When Kenan was 70 years old, he had a son. He called him Mahalalel." 
Genesis5:13 After Mahalalel was born, Kenan lived for 840 years. During this time, he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:14 Kenan was 910 years old when he died. 
Genesis5:15 When Mahalalel was 65 years old, he had a son. He called him Jared." 
Genesis5:16 After Jared was born, Mahalalel lived for 830 years. During this time, he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:17 Mahalalel was 895 years old when he died. 
Genesis5:18 When Jared was 162 years old, he had a son. He called him Enoch." 
Genesis5:19 After Enoch was born, Jared lived for 800 years. During this time, he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:20 Jared was 962 years old when he died. 
Genesis5:21 When Enoch was 65 years old, he had a son. He called him Methuselah." 
Genesis5:22 After Methuselah was born, Enoch lived as God wanted for 300 years. During this time, he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:23 Enoch lived on earth for 365 years. 
Genesis5:24 Enoch lived to please God all this time, then Enoch was not there any more. God took Enoch to be with him." 
Genesis5:25 When Methuselah was 187 years old, he had a son. He called him Lamech." 
Genesis5:26 After Lamech was born, Methuselah lived for 782 years. During this time, he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:27 Methuselah was 969 years old when he died. 
Genesis5:28 When Lamech was 182 years old, he had a son." 
Genesis5:29 He called his son Noah. Lamech said, ‘He will help us in our difficult work on the land. We have pain when we work on the land to get food. That is because the Lord God cursed the ground.’" 
Genesis5:30 After Noah was born, Lamech lived for 595 years. During this time, he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:31 Lamech was 777 years old when he died. 
Genesis5:32 After Noah was 500 years old, he became the father of Shem, Ham and Japheth." 
Genesis6:1 People began to grow in number all over the earth. They gave birth to daughters. 
Genesis6:2 The sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful. They chose for themselves any of them that they wanted to become their wives. 
Genesis6:3 The Lord said, ‘My Spirit will not give life to humans for ever. One day they will die. I will not let them live for more than 120 years. Then they will die.’" 
Genesis6:4 The Nephilites lived on the earth at that time, and for some time after that. During that time, the sons of God were having sex with the daughters of men, who gave birth to their children. The Nephilites were famous great men and fighters." 
Genesis6:5 The Lord saw that men and women on the earth had become very bad. They thought only of evil things all the time. 
Genesis6:6 The Lord was sorry that he had made humans and put them on the earth. He became very upset. 
Genesis6:7 So the Lord said, ‘I made humans, but now I will destroy them. I will completely take them off the earth. As well as human people, I will also destroy the animals, the living things that move on the ground, and the birds. I am sorry that I made them.’" 
Genesis6:8 But as for Noah, the Lord was pleased with him." 
Genesis6:9 This is the report about Noah and his family. Noah was a good man. He was the only person at that time who lived in a completely right way. He stayed near to God in his life. 
Genesis6:10 Noah became the father of Shem, Ham and Japheth." 
Genesis6:11 God saw that everything on the earth had become spoiled. Everywhere, people were attacking each other." 
Genesis6:12 God saw how much the earth had become spoiled. Everyone was doing bad things. 
Genesis6:13 God said to Noah, ‘I will destroy everyone. That is what I have decided to do. Everywhere on the earth, people are attacking each other. Now I will destroy the people and also the earth." 
Genesis6:14 So make a ship for yourself. Use wood from cypress trees to make it. The ship must have rooms in it. Cover the inside and the outside of the ship with tar. 
Genesis6:15 This is how you will build the ship: It must be 150 metres long, 25 metres wide and 15 metres high." 
Genesis6:16 Make a roof for the ship. Leave a space 45 centimetres high all around under the roof. Put a door in the side of the ship. Inside the ship, make three floors above each other." 
Genesis6:17 I will cover the earth with deep water. I will destroy all living things, wherever they live. Everything that breathes will die." 
Genesis6:18 But I will make a covenant with you, Noah. You will go into the ship. You will take your wife with you, and also your three sons and their wives." 
Genesis6:19 You must also take two of every different kind of animal into the ship. One will be male and the other will be female. Then they will stay alive with you. 
Genesis6:20 Bring two of every different kind of bird, two of every different animal and two of every different living thing that moves along the ground. All these will come to you. You will take care of them so that they will stay alive." 
Genesis6:21 You must also take every different kind of food. That will be food for you and food for the animals.’ 
Genesis6:22 Noah obeyed God. He did everything that God had told him to do. 
Genesis7:1 Then the Lord said to Noah, ‘Go into the ship. Take your wife and family with you. I can see that you alone do what is right, among all the people on the earth." 
Genesis7:2 Take seven pairs of every different kind of clean animal. Each pair will be a male and a female. Take two of every different kind of unclean animal. Take a male and a female together. 
Genesis7:3 Take seven pairs of every kind of bird, male and female together. Do this so that they will give birth to young ones. Then each different kind of animal and bird will continue to live on the earth." 
Genesis7:4 In seven days, I will cause rain to fall on the earth. It will rain for 40 days and 40 nights. In that way, I will destroy every living thing that I have made on the earth.’" 
Genesis7:5 Noah did everything that God told him to do. 
Genesis7:6 Noah was 600 years old when the deep water covered the earth. 
Genesis7:7 Noah and his wife went into the ship. His sons and their wives also went in. They all went into the ship to be safe from the deep water. 
Genesis7:8 Pairs of clean animals and unclean animals came to Noah in the ship. Also, pairs of birds and pairs of all the living things that move across the ground came to him." 
Genesis7:9 Each pair was one male and one female. They all came to Noah in the ship. Everything happened as God had said to Noah. 
Genesis7:10 Seven days later, God sent the deep water to cover the earth." 
Genesis7:11 When Noah was 600 years old, on the 17th day of the second month, streams of water came up everywhere from below the earth. Also, the water in the heavens poured down on the earth." 
Genesis7:12 Rain fell on the earth for 40 days and 40 nights. 
Genesis7:13 On the day that the rain began to fall, Noah and his wife went into the ship. Noah's three sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth, and their three wives also went in." 
Genesis7:14 With them was every different kind of wild animal and every different kind of farm animal. They also had with them every kind of living thing that moves along the ground. Every different kind of bird and other flying things were there too. 
Genesis7:15 Pairs of every kind of animal that lived came to Noah and went into the ship. 
Genesis7:16 Each pair was one male and one female. This happened in the way that God had told Noah. When they were all in the ship, the Lord shut the door." 
Genesis7:17 For 40 days, the water on the earth became deeper. The water lifted the ship high above the ground." 
Genesis7:18 The water became even deeper and completely covered the earth. The ship went safely on top of the water. 
Genesis7:19 More water came until it covered all the high mountains on the earth. 
Genesis7:20 The water still became deeper so that it was more than 6 metres higher than the tops of the mountains. 
Genesis7:21 As a result, everything that had lived on the earth now died. The birds, the farm animals and the wild animals died. Every living thing that moved across the ground died, and so did all the people." 
Genesis7:22 Everything that lived on the dry land died. Nothing could breathe any more. 
Genesis7:23 God destroyed everything that lived on the earth. He destroyed people, animals, living things that move across the ground, and birds. God removed them from the earth. Only Noah and his family, together with the animals that were in the ship, stayed alive." 
Genesis7:24 The deep water covered the earth for 150 days. 
Genesis8:1 Then God thought of Noah and all the animals that were with him in the ship. He caused a wind to blow over the earth. As a result, the water began to go down." 
Genesis8:2 Streams of water stopped coming up from below the earth. Rain stopped coming down from the sky. 
Genesis8:3 The deep water continued to go down for 150 days. 
Genesis8:4 On the 17th day of the seventh month, the ship stopped on the ground. It was sitting on the top of Ararat mountains." 
Genesis8:5 The water continued to go down until the tenth month. On the first day of the tenth month, the tops of the mountains appeared above the water." 
Genesis8:6 After 40 more days, Noah opened a window in the ship." 
Genesis8:7 He sent a raven to fly away. The raven flew away from the ship and then it returned. It continued to do this until the earth was dry. 
Genesis8:8 Then Noah sent out a dove. He wanted to see if the water had gone away from the top of the ground. 
Genesis8:9 But the dove could not find anywhere to stand. Water still covered all the ground. So it returned to Noah in the ship. Noah put out his hand and took the dove back into the ship. 
Genesis8:10 He waited for seven days. Then he sent the dove out of the ship again. 
Genesis8:11 The dove returned to Noah in the evening. It carried a fresh leaf from an olive tree in its mouth. Then Noah knew that the water had gone down. 
Genesis8:12 He waited for seven more days. Then he sent the dove out again. This time, it did not return to Noah." 
Genesis8:13 Noah was now 601 years old. On the first day of the first month, the water that had covered the earth was now gone. The ground had become dry. Noah made a hole in the roof of the ship and he looked around. He saw that the top of the ground was dry." 
Genesis8:14 By the 27th day of the second month, the earth had become completely dry." 
Genesis8:15 God said to Noah," 
Genesis8:16 ‘Come out of the ship. Bring your wife, your sons and their wives with you." 
Genesis8:17 Bring every different kind of living animal out of the ship. Bring out the birds, the animals, and the living things that move across the ground. Now they may give birth to young ones again. They can grow in number all over the earth.’" 
Genesis8:18 Noah went out of the ship, together with his wife, his sons and their wives." 
Genesis8:19 All the living animals also went out of the ship. The birds and the living things that move across the ground all went out. Every different kind of animal came out of the ship, each of them in its own group." 
Genesis8:20 Then Noah built an altar to make sacrifices to the Lord. He took one from each kind of clean animal and clean bird. He offered them to the Lord as sacrifices which he burned on the altar. 
Genesis8:21 The Lord smelled the sacrifice and it pleased him. The Lord said to himself, ‘I will never curse the ground again because of the bad things that people do. From the time that they are children, they want to do bad things. But I will never again destroy everything that breathes, as I have done this time." 
Genesis8:22 As long as the earth continues to be here, the time for people to plant seeds will come each year. The time for harvest will come each year. Times of cold and heat will always come. Summer and winter will always come. Day and night will never stop.’" 
Genesis9:1 God blessed Noah and his sons. He said to them, ‘Give birth to many children so that you become very many people. Your descendants will live all over the earth." 
Genesis9:2 All the animals and all the birds will be afraid of you. You have authority over them. You also have authority over all the living things that move across the ground and all the fish in the sea. 
Genesis9:3 You may now eat anything that lives and moves. Before, I gave you the green plants to eat. Now I give you everything to eat as your food." 
Genesis9:4 But you must not eat meat that still has the blood of life in it. 
Genesis9:5 If any person or animal kills a human, I will certainly punish them. Their punishment will be death." 
Genesis9:6 God made people so that they were like himself. So if anyone kills a human, another human must kill him." 
Genesis9:7 But as for you, you should give birth to many children so that you become very many people. There will be many people and they will live all over the earth.’" 
Genesis9:8 God said to Noah and to his sons," 
Genesis9:9 ‘I promise you that I will obey the covenant that I am making with you. I promise this to you and to all your descendants. 
Genesis9:10 I also promise this to all the animals and birds that came out of the ship with you. That is everything that lives on the earth. 
Genesis9:11 This is the covenant that I promise to keep: I will never cause water to destroy all living things on the earth again. Deep water will never again come again to destroy the earth.’ 
Genesis9:12 Then God said, ‘I will show you clearly that I have made this covenant with you, and with every living animal. I will keep this promise for ever, for as long as people live on the earth." 
Genesis9:13 I have put my rainbow among the clouds in the sky. It will show you clearly that I have made this covenant with everything on the earth. 
Genesis9:14 When I bring clouds over the earth, a rainbow will sometimes appear." 
Genesis9:15 Then I will remember the covenant that I have made with you and with all the different kinds of living things. Never again will the water become so deep that it destroys everything that lives. 
Genesis9:16 When I see the rainbow in the clouds, I will remember my covenant. It is a promise that I have made with every kind of living thing on the earth.’" 
Genesis9:17 Then God said to Noah, ‘The rainbow will show you that I will certainly do what I have promised. I will keep my covenant that is between me and everything that lives on the earth.’" 
Genesis9:18 The names of Noah's sons were Shem, Ham and Japheth. They all came out of the ship with Noah. Ham later became the father of a son called Canaan." 
Genesis9:19 All the people who live on the earth are descendants of Noah's three sons. 
Genesis9:20 Noah was a farmer. He was the first person to plant vines. 
Genesis9:21 He used the grapes to make wine. One day, he drank some of the wine and he became drunk. He lay inside his tent and he slept. He was not wearing any clothes." 
Genesis9:22 Canaan's father, Ham, saw that Noah was not wearing any clothes. He went out of the tent. He told his two brothers what he had seen." 
Genesis9:23 Then Shem and Japheth took Noah's coat and they put it between their shoulders. They walked into Noah's tent with their backs to Noah. In this way they covered their father with the coat. They looked away from their father so that they did not see him when he was not wearing any clothes. 
Genesis9:24 Later, when he was no longer drunk with the wine, Noah woke up. He found out what his youngest son, Ham, had done." 
Genesis9:25 He said, ‘I curse Canaan! He will become a slave who must serve his brothers.’" 
Genesis9:26 Noah also said, ‘I praise the Lord, the God of Shem! Let Canaan become Shem's slave!" 
Genesis9:27 I pray that God will make the land of Japheth and his descendants grow bigger. I pray that the descendants of Japheth will share good things with Shem. I pray that Canaan will become Japheth's slave.’ 
Genesis9:28 Noah lived for 350 years after God covered the earth with deep water. 
Genesis9:29 In his whole life, Noah lived for 950 years. Then he died." 
Genesis10:1 This is the report about Noah's sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth, and their families. After the deep water went away, they all had children themselves." 
Genesis10:2 These are the sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech and Tiras." 
Genesis10:3 These are the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath and Togarmah." 
Genesis10:4 These are the sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittim people and the Rodanim people." 
Genesis10:5 These people lived by the sea. They lived in groups. Each group went to live in a different place. Each group spoke its own language. 
Genesis10:6 These are the sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put and Canaan." 
Genesis10:7 These are the sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah and Sabteca. These are the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan." 
Genesis10:8 Cush was also the father of Nimrod. Nimrod became the first brave soldier in the world. 
Genesis10:9 The Lord helped Nimrod to be a great hunter. That is why people say, ‘Like Nimrod, a great hunter that the Lord helped.’" 
Genesis10:10 The first of Nimrod's lands were Babylon, Erech, Akkad and Calneh, in Shinar." 
Genesis10:11 From that land he went to Assyria. This is where he built Nineveh, Rehoboth-Ir and Calah." 
Genesis10:12 He also built Resen. Resen is between Nineveh and Calah, which is a large city." 
Genesis10:13 Mizraim was the ancestor of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites," 
Genesis10:14 Pathrusites, Kasluhites and Caphtorites. The Philistines were descendants of the Kasluhites." 
Genesis10:15 Canaan was the father of Sidon, his first son. Canaan was also the ancestor of the Hittites," 
Genesis10:16 Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites," 
Genesis10:17 Hivites, Arkites, Sinites," 
Genesis10:18 Arvadites, Zemarites and Hamathites. After some time had passed, the Canaanite families went to live in different places." 
Genesis10:19 The land of Canaan went from Sidon to Gerar, as far as Gaza. It went to Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha." 
Genesis10:20 These are all descendants of Ham. They lived in groups in their own parts of the land. Each group spoke their own language. 
Genesis10:21 Shem also had sons. Shem was Japheth's older brother. All the sons of Eber are descendants of Shem. 
Genesis10:22 These are the sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud and Aram." 
Genesis10:23 These are the sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether and Meshech." 
Genesis10:24 Arphaxad was the father of Shelah. Shelah was the father of Eber. 
Genesis10:25 Eber had two sons. The name of one son was Peleg. When he was alive, people began to live in different places on the earth. That is why his name was Peleg. Peleg's brother's name was Joktan." 
Genesis10:26 Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah," 
Genesis10:27 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah," 
Genesis10:28 Obal, Abimael, Sheba," 
Genesis10:29 Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All these men were Joktan's sons." 
Genesis10:29 Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All these men were Joktan's sons." 
Genesis10:30 The land where they lived went from Mesha to Sephar. This is in the land with hills in the east. 
Genesis10:31 These are the descendants of Shem. They lived in groups in their own parts of the land. Each group spoke their own language. 
Genesis10:32 All these people are descendants of Noah's sons. They went to live in different parts of the earth and their children became different nations. This happened after the time that deep water covered the earth. 
Genesis11:1 At this time, everyone who lived on the earth spoke one language. They used the same words." 
Genesis11:2 People moved to the east. They reached a large flat piece of land called Shinar. They stayed there to live. 
Genesis11:3 They said to each other, ‘We should make bricks and cook them until they are hard.’ These people used bricks instead of stones to build houses. They used tar to hold the bricks together, instead of cement." 
Genesis11:4 They said, ‘Let us build a city to live in. We should also build a very tall tower. The tower will go up into the heavens. Then we will always be famous. If we do that, we will not have to go and live in different places on the earth.’" 
Genesis11:5 But the Lord came down to see the city and the tower. He saw that the people had started to build them. 
Genesis11:6 The Lord said, ‘Because they all speak the same language, they are able to do this. If they can do this together, they may decide to do whatever they want." 
Genesis11:7 Now we must go down to them. We must cause their language to become confused. Then they will not be able to understand each other.’ 
Genesis11:8 So the Lord divided the people from one another. They went to live in different places all over the earth. They stopped building the city for themselves. 
Genesis11:9 That is why people called the city Babel. It was because the Lord confused all the people of the world and he gave them different languages to speak. From that time, the Lord caused the people to live in different groups all over the earth." 
Genesis11:10 This is the report about Shem and his family. Two years after the deep water had covered the earth, Shem was 100 years old. He became the father of Arphaxad." 
Genesis11:11 After Arphaxad was born, Shem lived for 500 years. He had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:12 When Arphaxad was 35 years old, he became the father of Shelah." 
Genesis11:13 After Shelah was born, Arphaxad lived for 403 years. He had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:14 When Shelah was 30 years old, he became the father of Eber." 
Genesis11:15 After Eber was born, Shelah lived for 403 years. He had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:16 When Eber was 34 years old, he became the father of Peleg." 
Genesis11:17 After Peleg was born, Eber lived for 430 years. He had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:18 When Peleg was 30 years old, he became the father of Reu." 
Genesis11:19 After Reu was born, Peleg lived for 209 years. He had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:20 When Reu was 32 years old, he became the father of Serug." 
Genesis11:21 After Serug was born, Reu lived for 207 years. He had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:22 When Serug was 30 years old, he became the father of Nahor." 
Genesis11:23 After Nahor was born, Serug lived for 200 years. He had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:24 When Nahor was 29 years old, he became the father of Terah." 
Genesis11:25 After Terah was born, Nahor lived for 119 years. He had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:26 After Terah was 70 years old, he became the father of Abram, Nahor and Haran." 
Genesis11:27 This is the report about Terah and his family. Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor and Haran. Haran became the father of Lot." 
Genesis11:28 While Terah was still alive, his son, Haran, died. Haran died in Ur, the land of the Chaldeans. That was where Haran had been born." 
Genesis11:29 Abram married Sarai. Nahor married Milcah. Milcah was Haran's daughter. Haran was the father of Milcah and Iscah. 
Genesis11:30 Sarai could not give birth to children. She did not have any children. 
Genesis11:31 Terah left Ur, the land of the Chaldeans. He took with him his son Abram and his grandson Lot. (Lot was Haran's son.) Terah also took Abram's wife Sarai. They began to go to Canaan. But when they came to Haran, they stayed there." 
Genesis11:32 Terah died in Haran when he was 205 years old. 
Genesis12:1 The Lord had said to Abram, ‘Leave your country and the people of your father's family. Go to the land that I will show you." 
Genesis12:2 I will cause your descendants to become a great nation. I will bless you. Everyone will know your name. You will bring my blessing to other people. 
Genesis12:3 I will bless those people who bless you. But I will curse anyone who insults you. I will bless all the families of people on the earth because of you.’ 
Genesis12:4 Abram did what the Lord had told him. He left Haran. Abram was 75 years old when he left Haran. Lot went with him. 
Genesis12:5 Abram took his wife Sarai and his nephew Lot. He took everything that belonged to them. He also took the people who worked for them in Haran. They all left to go to the land of Canaan. When they arrived in Canaan," 
Genesis12:6 Abram walked through the land. He went as far as Shechem, to the special oak tree of Moreh. At that time, Canaanites lived in this land." 
Genesis12:7 The Lord appeared to Abram there. He said, ‘I will give this land to your descendants.’ So Abram built an altar in that place to worship the Lord. He did that because the Lord had appeared to him." 
Genesis12:8 Then Abram left Shechem. He went to the hills that are on the east of Bethel. He put up his tent in that place. Bethel was towards the west, and Ai was towards the east. Abram also built an altar there to worship the Lord." 
Genesis12:9 Then Abram took his tent and he left that place. He continued to travel towards the Negev. 
Genesis12:10 There was a famine in the land of Canaan. So Abram went to live in Egypt for some time, because the famine was very bad." 
Genesis12:11 When Abram came near to Egypt, he said to his wife Sarai, ‘Listen to me. I know that you are a very beautiful woman." 
Genesis12:12 When the Egyptians see you they will say, “This is Abram's wife.” Then they will kill me, but they will let you live." 
Genesis12:13 So tell them that you are my sister. Then they will do good things to me, because they want to please you. They will not kill me because they will think that you are my sister.’" 
Genesis12:14 When Abram arrived in Egypt, the people saw that Sarai was a very beautiful woman." 
Genesis12:15 The king's officers saw her. They told Pharaoh that she was very beautiful. They took her to the king's palace. 
Genesis12:16 Pharaoh did good things to help Abram because of Sarai. He gave Abram sheep, cows, donkeys and camels. He also gave Abram male servants and female servants." 
Genesis12:17 But the Lord made Pharaoh and the people in his palace very ill. The Lord did this because the king had taken Abram's wife Sarai. 
Genesis12:18 So Pharaoh called Abram to come to him. Pharaoh said, ‘You have done this bad thing to me! You did not tell me that Sarai is your wife! Why not?" 
Genesis12:19 You told me, “She is my sister.” As a result, I took her to be my wife. Now, here is your wife. Take her and go away!’" 
Genesis12:20 Pharaoh told his officers what to do with Abram. They sent Abram away, with his wife and everything that belonged to them." 
Genesis13:1 Abram left Egypt and he travelled north to the Negev. He took his wife and everything that belonged to him. Lot also went with him. 
Genesis13:2 Abram had many valuable things. He had many cows, and much silver and gold." 
Genesis13:3 Then Abram left the Negev and he went to different places. He arrived at Bethel. He returned to the place where he had put up his tent before. That place was between Bethel and Ai. 
Genesis13:4 It was where Abram had first built an altar to worship the Lord. 
Genesis13:5 Lot was travelling with Abram. Lot also had many cows, sheep and tents." 
Genesis13:6 But the land could not grow enough food for all of them to eat. They could not all live together in the same place, because they had so many animals and people with them." 
Genesis13:7 Abram's shepherds and Lot's shepherds began to quarrel with each other. (At that time, Canaanites and Perizzites also lived in the land.)" 
Genesis13:8 Abram said to Lot, ‘We must not quarrel with each other. Your shepherds and my shepherds must not quarrel with each other. Remember that we belong to the same family." 
Genesis13:9 Look everywhere! There is enough land for all of us. We must go different ways. If you go to the left, I will go to the right. If you go to the right, I will go to the left.’" 
Genesis13:10 Lot looked up and he saw the valley of the Jordan River, as far as Zoar. He saw that it had lots of water, like the garden of the Lord. It was good land, like the land of Egypt. (This was before the Lord destroyed the cities there called Sodom and Gomorrah.)" 
Genesis13:11 So Lot chose for himself the valley of the Jordan River. He travelled towards the east. 
Genesis13:12 Abram stayed in the land of Canaan and he lived there. But Lot lived near the cities that were in the Jordan Valley. He put up his tents near the city of Sodom. 
Genesis13:13 The people of Sodom were very wicked. They did not obey the Lord at all. 
Genesis13:14 After Lot had gone away, the Lord said to Abram, ‘Stand where you are and look all around! Look to the north, the south, the east and the west." 
Genesis13:15 I will give you all the land that you can see. I will give it to you and your descendants. It will belong to them for ever. 
Genesis13:16 I will make your descendants become very many. Like the dust of the ground, people will not be able to count them all." 
Genesis13:17 Go and travel round all this land. Look at it, because I am giving it to you!’" 
Genesis13:18 So Abram moved his tents. He went to live near the special oak trees of Mamre. That place is at Hebron. Abram built an altar to worship the Lord there. 
Genesis14:1 Now there were many kings living in that land, at that time. They fought against each other. One fight happened when Kedorlaomer had ruled over the other kings for 12 years. And in the next year, five kings made one group and they fought against him. Kedorlaomer joined with three other kings. So it was four kings against five other kings. The four kings were Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Kedorlaomer king of Elam and Tidal king of Goyim. Those kings fought a war against Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, Shemeber king of Zeboiim and the king of Bela. (Bela is another name for the town of Zoar.) They fought in Siddim Valley. (That is the Valley of the Salt Sea.)" 
Genesis14:2  
Genesis14:3  
Genesis14:4  
Genesis14:5 One year later, Kedorlaomer and the kings with him won against the Rephaites. This was in Ashteroth Karnaim. They won against the Zuzites in Ham. They won against the Emites in Shaveh Kiriathaim." 
Genesis14:6 And they won against the Horites in the country of Seir. This was as far as El Paran near the desert. 
Genesis14:7 They then went back. They went to En Mishpat. (That is Kadesh.) They took the whole land of the Amalekites. They also took the land of the Amorites who were living in Hazezon Tamar. 
Genesis14:8 Then, the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboiim and the king of Bela (that is Zoar) went to fight. That was in Siddim Valley." 
Genesis14:9 They fought against Kedorlaomer king of Elam, Tidal king of Goyim, Amraphel king of Shinar and Arioch king of Ellasar. There were four kings fighting against five kings." 
Genesis14:10 Siddim Valley had many holes in the ground. The holes were filled with tar. The kings of Sodom and Gomorrah ran away. Some of their men fell into the deep tar. The other men ran away to the hills. 
Genesis14:11 The four kings took everything in Sodom and Gomorrah, including all the food. Then they went away." 
Genesis14:12 Abram's nephew, Lot, was living in Sodom at that time. They took him away from there as their prisoner. They also took everything that belonged to him." 
Genesis14:13 At that time, Abram, the Hebrew man, was living near the oak trees of Mamre. Mamre was an Amorite. He was the brother of Eshcol and Aner. These men had agreed to be Abram's friends. A man had escaped from Sodom. He told Abram everything that had happened." 
Genesis14:14 Abram understood that the kings had taken his nephew as their prisoner. So he called 318 men to come together. These men had been born in Abram's camp and they knew how to fight. Abram took his men with him. They went to attack the men who had caught Lot. They went as far as Dan. 
Genesis14:15 During the night, Abram separated his men into two groups. Then they attacked Kedorlaomer and his men who had taken Lot. Those men ran away and Abram followed them as far as Hobah. Hobah is north of Damascus." 
Genesis14:16 Abram took back everything that those men had taken from Sodom. He also brought back his nephew Lot, together with the women and the other people." 
Genesis14:17 In that way, Abram won against Kedorlaomer and the kings with him. As Abram was returning home, the king of Sodom came out to meet him. They met in Shaveh Valley, which people call the King's Valley." 
Genesis14:18 Melchizedek was the king of Salem, and he was a priest of the Most High God. He brought out bread and wine for Abram." 
Genesis14:19 He blessed Abram. He said, ‘I pray that the Most High God who made heaven and earth will bless Abram." 
Genesis14:20 Praise the Most High God! He has given you power over your enemies.’ After that, Abram gave Melchizedek a tenth part of everything." 
Genesis14:21 Then the king of Sodom said to Abram, ‘Give back to me all my people. Take everything else for yourself.’" 
Genesis14:22 But Abram said to the king of Sodom, ‘I have made a strong promise to the Lord, the Most High God who made heaven and earth." 
Genesis14:23 I promised that I would not take anything that belonged to you. I will not take the smallest thing, not even a piece of string or part of a shoe. Then you will never be able to say, “I made Abram become rich.”" 
Genesis14:24 I myself will accept only the food that my young men have eaten. But Aner, Eshcol and Mamre went with me to help me to fight. They should take their part of the things that we brought back with us.’" 
Genesis15:1 After this, the Lord spoke to Abram in a vision. God said, ‘Do not be afraid Abram. I will keep you safe. I myself will give you many good gifts.’" 
Genesis15:2 But Abram said, ‘ Almighty Lord, there is one gift that I want. I still have no children. When I die, Eliezer of Damascus will receive everything that I have." 
Genesis15:3 Because you have not given me any children, all my things will one day belong to a servant in my house.’" 
Genesis15:4 Then the Lord gave Abram this message: ‘No! Eliezer will not be the one who receives your things. You yourself will be the father of a son. He will be the one who receives everything that you have.’ 
Genesis15:5 The Lord took Abram outside. He said to Abram, ‘Look up at the sky. Count the stars. They are too many for you to count!’ Then God said, ‘That is how many descendants you will have.’" 
Genesis15:6 Abram believed the Lord. As a result, the Lord accepted Abram as right with him." 
Genesis15:7 The Lord also said to Abram, ‘I am the Lord. I brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans to bring you to this land. I am giving it to you. It will belong to you.’" 
Genesis15:8 But Abram said, ‘Almighty Lord, how can I be sure that this land will belong to me?’" 
Genesis15:9 The Lord said to Abram, ‘Bring a young cow, a goat and a male sheep to offer them to me. Each animal must be three years old. Also bring a dove and a young pigeon.’" 
Genesis15:10 Abram brought the three animals and the two birds to offer to God. Abram cut each animal in two pieces. He put the halves opposite each other. But he did not cut the birds in two pieces. 
Genesis15:11 Some birds flew down to eat the animals' dead bodies. But Abram sent them away. 
Genesis15:12 When the sun was going down, Abram started to sleep. Suddenly he became very afraid because it was dark all around him." 
Genesis15:13 Then the Lord said to Abram, ‘Be sure of this: Your descendants will live in a foreign country. They will be strangers there. People will do bad things to them and they will become slaves. This will continue for 400 years." 
Genesis15:14 But I will punish the people of that country who give them trouble. After this, your descendants will leave that country. They will take many valuable things with them." 
Genesis15:15 But as for you, Abram, you will have a long life. When you die, you will have peace in your mind." 
Genesis15:16 After four generations, your descendants will come back here to Canaan. At that time, I will punish the Amorites because they do very bad things. But the time has not yet arrived that I will punish them.’" 
Genesis15:17 Then the sun went down and it became dark. Abram saw a pot that had coals in it. The coals were burning and making smoke. There was also a branch that burned with bright fire. These passed between the halves of the animals that Abram had cut into two pieces. 
Genesis15:18 On that day, the Lord made a covenant with Abram. The Lord promised, ‘I give this land to your descendants. The land starts from the river of Egypt and continues as far as the Euphrates River." 
Genesis15:19 These people live in the land: Kenites, Kenizzites, Kadmonites," 
Genesis15:20 Hittites, Perizzites, Rephaites," 
Genesis15:21 Amorites, Canaanites, Girgashites and Jebusites.’" 
Genesis16:1 Abram's wife, Sarai, had not given birth to any children. She had an Egyptian servant. The servant's name was Hagar." 
Genesis16:2 Sarai said to Abram, ‘The Lord has not let me have any children. Go and sleep with my servant. Then if she gives birth, her children will be my family.’ Abram agreed to do this." 
Genesis16:3 Abram had now been living in Canaan for ten years. Sarai gave her Egyptian servant, Hagar, to him. She became like another wife for Abram." 
Genesis16:4 Abram had sex with Hagar and she became pregnant. When Hagar knew that she was pregnant, she no longer respected Sarai." 
Genesis16:5 Then Sarai said to Abram, ‘It is because of you that Hagar is now insulting me. I gave her to you so that you could have sex with her. Now she is pregnant and she does not respect me. The Lord will decide who is right, you or me.’" 
Genesis16:6 Abram said to Sarai, ‘Hagar is your servant and you have authority over her. Do to her whatever you think is right.’ Then Sarai caused trouble for Hagar. So Hagar ran away from Sarai." 
Genesis16:7 The angel of the found Hagar. She was by a spring of water in the desert. The spring was near the road to Shur. 
Genesis16:8 The angel said, ‘Sarai's servant, Hagar, where have you come from? Where are you going?’ Hagar replied, ‘I am Sarai's servant but I am running away from her.’" 
Genesis16:9 The angel of the Lord told Hagar, ‘Go back to Sarai. You are her servant and you must obey her.’" 
Genesis16:10 The angel also said, ‘I will make the number of your descendants become very many. They will be too many for people to count.’" 
Genesis16:11 The angel of the Lord said to Hagar, ‘Now you are pregnant and you will give birth to a son. When you cried in pain, the Lord heard you, so you must give your son the name “Ishmael”." 
Genesis16:12 Like a wild donkey, nobody will be able to rule him. He will fight against everyone, and everyone will fight against him. He will think that everyone is his enemy. He will live far away from his brothers.’" 
Genesis16:13 When Hagar heard what the angel said, she said to herself, ‘I have seen the God who sees me!’ So she called the Lord ‘The God who sees me.’" 
Genesis16:14 That is why people called the well in that place ‘Beer Lahai Roi’. The well is between Kadesh and Bered. 
Genesis16:15 After some time Hagar gave birth to a son. Abram was his father. Abram gave his son the name ‘Ishmael’. 
Genesis16:16 Abram was 86 years old when Hagar gave birth to Ishmael. 
Genesis17:1 When Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to him. The Lord said, ‘I am God Almighty. In all your life, obey me and do nothing wrong." 
Genesis17:2 Then I will certainly keep my covenant with you. I will make your descendants grow in number.’ 
Genesis17:3 Abram fell down so that his face touched the ground. God said to him," 
Genesis17:4 ‘Listen to me. This is my covenant that I have made with you. You will become the ancestor of many nations of people. 
Genesis17:5 Your name will not be Abram any more. Instead your name will be Abraham, because I will cause you to become the ancestor of many nations." 
Genesis17:6 I will give you many descendants. These will make many nations of people. Some of your descendants will become kings. 
Genesis17:7 I will make this covenant with you and with your descendants. It will continue for many generations of your descendants, for all time. I will be your God. I will also be the God of all your descendants." 
Genesis17:8 You are now living here in Canaan as a foreign person. But I will give all of this land to you and to your descendants. It will belong to them for ever. I will be their God.’ 
Genesis17:9 God continued to speak to Abraham. He said, ‘As for you, you must agree to obey me. You must obey the rules of my covenant. You and all your descendants after you must obey it." 
Genesis17:10 This is what you and all your descendants must do to obey my covenant. Every male person in your family must be circumcised. 
Genesis17:11 Your circumcision will show that you have agreed to my covenant with you. 
Genesis17:12 Every male child among you must be circumcised when he is eight days old. You must continue to do this for every generation of your descendants. Circumcise every male that lives with you. Circumcise your own family. Circumcise servants that have been born in your house. Also circumcise foreign servants that you have bought with money. 
Genesis17:13 You must circumcise all the male servants who work for you in your house. Circumcision will be a mark in your bodies which shows that you accept my covenant. It will continue for all time. 
Genesis17:14 If any male person among you has not been circumcised, I will not accept him as one of my people. He must become separate from his people. He has not obeyed my covenant.’" 
Genesis17:15 Then God said to Abraham, ‘As for your wife, do not call her Sarai any more. Instead, her name will be Sarah." 
Genesis17:16 I will bless her. She will give birth to a son for you. Many nations of people will be her descendants. Some of them will become kings. That is how much I will bless her!’ 
Genesis17:17 Abraham fell down so that his face touched the ground. He laughed and he said to himself, ‘I am now 100 years old. That is too old to have a son. Sarah is 90 years old, so she could never give birth to a child.’" 
Genesis17:18 So Abraham said to God, ‘I would be happy if you would bless Ishmael as my son.’" 
Genesis17:19 God said to Abraham, ‘No, your wife Sarah will give birth to a son for you. You must give him the name “Isaac”. I will make my covenant with him and with his descendants for all time." 
Genesis17:20 I have heard what you want me to do for Ishmael. I will bless him too. I will cause him to have many descendants. Among his descendants there will be 12 rulers. His descendants will become a great nation. 
Genesis17:21 But I will make my covenant with Isaac, not with Ishmael. At about this time next year, Sarah will give birth to your son, Isaac.’" 
Genesis17:22 When God had finished speaking to Abraham, he went away." 
Genesis17:23 On that same day, Abraham circumcised Ishmael and every male person in his house. He circumcised every male servant that was born in his house, and also those that he had bought with money. He did this in the way that God had told him." 
Genesis17:24 Abraham himself was circumcised when he was 99 years old. 
Genesis17:25 His son, Ishmael, was 13 years old when he was circumcised." 
Genesis17:26 Abraham and Ishmael were circumcised on the same day. 
Genesis17:27 As well as them, all the male people living in Abraham's house were circumcised. This included the male servants that had been born in his house and those that he had bought with money." 
Genesis18:1 The Lord appeared to Abraham near the oak trees of Mamre. It was the very hot time of the day and Abraham was sitting by the door of his tent. 
Genesis18:2 Abraham looked up and he saw three men. He ran in a hurry to meet them. He bent down to the ground to welcome them. 
Genesis18:3 Abraham said, ‘Please sir, stop here and let me serve you. That would make me very happy." 
Genesis18:4 Let us bring some water so that you can all wash your feet. Then you can rest under this tree. 
Genesis18:5 Let me also bring some food for you to eat. Now that you have come to my home, you should rest and become strong again. Then you will be ready to continue with your journey.’ The men replied, ‘That is good. Please do what you have said.’" 
Genesis18:6 Abraham went quickly to the tent. He said to Sarah, ‘Be quick! Get plenty of good flour and make bread with it.’" 
Genesis18:7 Then Abraham ran to his cows. He chose a very nice young cow. He gave it to his servant. The servant quickly prepared it for the men to eat. 
Genesis18:8 Then Abraham also brought some cream and some milk, as well as the meat from the cow. He put all the food in front of the men. While they ate it, Abraham stood near them, under a tree." 
Genesis18:9 Then the men asked Abraham, ‘Where is Sarah, your wife?’ Abraham replied, ‘She is there in the tent.’" 
Genesis18:10 Then one of the men said, ‘I will certainly return to you at about this time next year. At that time Sarah, your wife, will have a son!’ Sarah was listening to all this. She was at the door of the tent, near to where they were talking." 
Genesis18:11 Abraham and Sarah were now very old. Sarah was past the age when she could give birth to a child. 
Genesis18:12 So Sarah laughed to herself. She thought, ‘I have become old and weak. My husband is also old. I will never have a baby and be happy like that.’" 
Genesis18:13 Then the Lord said to Abraham, ‘Why did Sarah laugh like that? She said, “I am too old to have a child.”" 
Genesis18:14 But surely, nothing is too difficult for the Lord to do. At this time next year, I will return to you and Sarah will have a son.’" 
Genesis18:15 Sarah was afraid, so she told a lie. She said, ‘I did not laugh.’ But the Lord said, ‘Yes, you did laugh.’" 
Genesis18:16 Then Abraham's visitors started to leave. They looked down towards Sodom in the valley. Abraham was walking with them to say ‘goodbye’ to them. 
Genesis18:17 The Lord said to himself, ‘I should tell Abraham what I have decided to do." 
Genesis18:18 Abraham's descendants will become a great nation of people. They will be very powerful. I will bless all the nations of the earth because of him. 
Genesis18:19 I have chosen him so that he will teach my message to his children and their families. He will teach them to do what is right and what is fair. Then I, the Lord, will do for Abraham everything that I have promised to him.’" 
Genesis18:20 So the Lord said to Abraham, ‘I have heard how wicked the people in Sodom and Gomorrah are. Everybody says that their sins are very bad." 
Genesis18:21 So I must go down there to see if it is true. I will see if those people are as bad as everybody says they are. If it is not true, I need to know about it.’" 
Genesis18:22 The other two men then turned away and they went towards Sodom. But Abraham stayed there to talk with the Lord. 
Genesis18:23 Then Abraham went near to the Lord and he asked, ‘Will you destroy the good people in Sodom as well as the bad people?" 
Genesis18:24 There might be 50 people in the city who live in a good way. Will you still destroy the whole city? Or will you leave it there, because there are 50 good people in it?" 
Genesis18:25 Will you kill them all, the good people and the bad people? Surely you would not do anything like that! You would not punish good people in the same way as bad people. You are the great judge of everyone on the earth. You will surely do what is right!’" 
Genesis18:26 The Lord replied, ‘If I see that there are 50 good people in the city of Sodom, I will not destroy that place. Because of those 50 good people, I will leave the city there.’" 
Genesis18:27 Then Abraham spoke again. He said, ‘I have been brave enough to speak to the Lord. I know that I am nothing more than dust and ashes." 
Genesis18:28 But let me ask you this. What will you do if there are 45 good people in the city? Will you destroy the city, because there are only five fewer good people there?’ The Lord replied, ‘If I see that there are 45 good people in the city, I will not destroy it.’" 
Genesis18:29 Abraham spoke to God again. He said, ‘What will you do if only 40 good people are there?’ The Lord said, ‘Because of 40 good people, I will not destroy the city.’" 
Genesis18:30 Then Abraham said, ‘Please do not be angry, Lord. Let me speak again. What will you do if there are only 30 good people there?’ The Lord answered, ‘I will not destroy the city if I find 30 good people there.’" 
Genesis18:31 Abraham said, ‘I have been brave to speak to you, Lord. What will you do if only 20 good people are there?’ The Lord said, ‘Because of 20 good people, I will not destroy the city.’" 
Genesis18:32 After all that, Abraham said, ‘Please do not be angry, Lord. Let me speak one more time. If there are only ten good people there, what will you do?’ The Lord replied, ‘Because of ten good people, I will not destroy the city.’" 
Genesis18:33 The Lord had finished speaking with Abraham. So he continued on his journey. Abraham returned home. 
Genesis19:1 The two angels arrived at Sodom. It was evening and Lot was sitting near the city gate. When Lot saw the angels, he got up to meet them. He turned his face towards the ground to welcome them." 
Genesis19:2 Lot said, ‘My lords, please come to stay in my house. You can wash your feet and stay the night there. Then you can continue your journey early in the morning.’ The angels replied, ‘No, we will stay the night here in this public place.’" 
Genesis19:3 But Lot continued to ask them to stay with him. So the angels went with Lot to his house. Lot prepared a big meal for them, with some bread that he had baked without yeast. The angels ate the food." 
Genesis19:4 After that, they were preparing to go to bed. Then all the men who lived in Sodom came to Lot's house. There were old men and young men who came from every part of the city. They stood all around the house." 
Genesis19:5 The men shouted to Lot, ‘Where are the men who are staying with you tonight? Bring them out here to us. We want to have sex with them.’" 
Genesis19:6 Lot went outside to talk to the men. He shut the door of his house behind him. 
Genesis19:7 He said, ‘No, my friends. Please do not do this evil thing." 
Genesis19:8 See here! I have two daughters. They have never had sex with a man. Let me bring them out to you. Then you can do whatever you want with them. But do not do anything to these men. They are my visitors and I cannot let anyone hurt them.’ 
Genesis19:9 The men from the city said, ‘Do not try to stop us! You live here as a stranger here in our city. You cannot tell us what to do! Be careful or we will do even worse things to you.’ They pushed against Lot and tried to reach the door of his house. They wanted to break the door and go into the house." 
Genesis19:10 The two visitors who were inside the house opened the door. They pulled Lot back into his house and they shut the door quickly. 
Genesis19:11 Then they caused all the men outside to become blind, the young men of the city as well as the old men. As a result, they could not find the door of the house, even though they tried for some time." 
Genesis19:12 The two visitors asked Lot, ‘Do you have any of your family here in the city? Do you have any sons or daughters, or husbands for your daughters? If you have any family, you must take them away from here." 
Genesis19:13 We will soon destroy this city. Everybody knows how bad the people who live here are. As a result, the Lord has sent us to destroy this place.’" 
Genesis19:14 So Lot went out of his house. He spoke to the men who would marry his daughters. He said to them, ‘Hurry! Leave this city now, because the Lord has decided to destroy it.’ But the men did not believe Lot. They thought he was not being serious." 
Genesis19:15 At dawn, the two angels told Lot he must leave quickly. They said to him, ‘Hurry! Take your wife and take your two daughters who are here. If you do not go quickly, you will all die when the Lord destroys the city.’" 
Genesis19:16 But Lot did not move. So the angels took hold of Lot's hand, and also the hands of his wife and his two daughters. The Lord was very kind to Lot and his family and the angels led them away from the city." 
Genesis19:17 When they had reached a place outside the city, one of the angels said, ‘Now run! Your lives are in danger. Do not look behind you! Do not stop anywhere in this valley. Run up into the mountains or you will die.’" 
Genesis19:18 But Lot said, ‘No! Please, my lords, I cannot do that!" 
Genesis19:19 I am your humble servant and you have been very kind to me. You have saved my life. But I cannot run away into the mountains. If I try to do that, this punishment will catch me before I reach there. Then I will surely die." 
Genesis19:20 Look! See that town over there. It is near and I can run to it safely. And it is a small town. So please let me run there. You can see that it is only a small place. If I go there, I will stay alive.’" 
Genesis19:21 The angel said to Lot, ‘I will let you do what you have asked. I will not destroy that town." 
Genesis19:22 But run there quickly. I cannot do anything until you arrive in the town.’ (The name of the town became ‘Zoar’, because it was small.)" 
Genesis19:23 Lot reached Zoar at the time when the sun was rising that morning. 
Genesis19:24 Then the Lord poured sulphur with fire down on Sodom and Gomorrah. It fell from the sky like rain. 
Genesis19:25 In that way God destroyed those cities and everything in the valley. He killed all the people who lived in those cities. And he killed all the plants that grew on the land. 
Genesis19:26 But as they ran away, Lot's wife looked back at the city. When she did that, she became a large piece of salt, like a pillar." 
Genesis19:27 Early in the morning, Abraham returned to the place where he had spoken with the Lord." 
Genesis19:28 He looked towards Sodom and Gomorrah and the whole valley. He saw thick dark smoke that was rising from the land. It was like the smoke from a hot fire. 
Genesis19:29 When God destroyed the cities of the valley, he saved Lot from that punishment. God remembered what he had promised to Abraham. God took Lot away from the cities where he had lived. Then he destroyed those cities." 
Genesis19:30 Lot was afraid to live in Zoar. So he took his two daughters and they went up into the mountains. They lived together in a cave. 
Genesis19:31 One day, the older daughter said to her sister, ‘Our father is now old. There are no men who live near here, so there is nobody to marry us. We cannot have sex like everyone on the earth wants to do." 
Genesis19:32 So we should give our father a lot of wine to drink. When he becomes drunk, we will have sex with him. Then our father's family will continue to have descendants.’" 
Genesis19:33 That night they caused their father to become drunk with wine. The older daughter had sex with him. Lot was very drunk. He did not know when she came to him. And he did not know when she left him. 
Genesis19:34 The next day the older daughter said to her younger sister, ‘Last night I had sex with my father. We should make him drunk with wine again tonight. Then you can have sex with him. As a result, our father's family will continue.’" 
Genesis19:35 So that night, they caused their father to become drunk again. The younger daughter had sex with her father. He did not know when she came to him. And he did not know when she left him." 
Genesis19:36 In that way, Lot caused both of his daughters to become pregnant." 
Genesis19:37 The older daughter gave birth to a son. She called him Moab. He became the ancestor of the Moabites. 
Genesis19:38 The younger daughter also gave birth to a son. She called him Ben-Ammi. He became the ancestor of the Ammonites. 
Genesis20:1 Abraham travelled south to the Negev Desert. He lived between Kadesh and Shur. For a time he stayed in Gerar. 
Genesis20:2 While he was there, Abraham told people that his wife, Sarah, was his sister. Because of this, the king of Gerar took Sarah so that she would become his wife. The king's name was Abimelech." 
Genesis20:3 But God appeared to Abimelech in a dream. He said to Abimelech, ‘Now you will die! The woman that you have taken to be your wife is already a married woman.’" 
Genesis20:4 But Abimelech had not yet touched Sarah. He said to God, ‘ Lord, I have not done anything wrong. Surely you will not destroy me and my people." 
Genesis20:5 Abraham told me that Sarah was his sister. And she herself said, “I am his sister.” So I am not guilty! I did not think that I was doing a bad thing.’" 
Genesis20:6 God spoke to Abimelech again in a dream. He said, ‘That is true. You did not think that you were doing something wrong. I know that. So I did not let you touch her. I stopped you from doing anything wrong against me." 
Genesis20:7 You must now give her back to her husband. He is a prophet and he will pray for you. Because of that, you will not die. But if you do not give her back, you and all your people will surely die.’" 
Genesis20:8 Early the next morning, Abimelech called together his officers. He told them what had happened. When the officers heard about it, they were very afraid." 
Genesis20:9 Abimelech called Abraham to come to him. He said to Abraham, ‘Why have you done this bad thing against us? I have not done anything wrong against you. Now you have made me and the people in my kingdom guilty of a very bad thing. Nobody should ever do the things that you have done to me.’" 
Genesis20:10 Abimelech asked Abraham, ‘What caused you to do this?’" 
Genesis20:11 Abraham replied, ‘I did it because I was afraid. I thought, “The people here do not respect God. They will kill me so that they can take my wife from me.”" 
Genesis20:12 And also, she really is my sister. She is the daughter of my father. But she is not the daughter of my mother. And she became my wife." 
Genesis20:13 God told me to leave my father's house and to travel. At that time I said to Sarah, “This is how you can show that you love me. Everywhere we go, tell people that I am your brother.” ’" 
Genesis20:14 Then Abimelech brought sheep and cows to give to Abraham. He also gave to Abraham male and female servants. And he gave Sarah back to Abraham. 
Genesis20:15 Abimelech said, ‘Look! See my land all around you. Go and live anywhere that you want to live.’" 
Genesis20:16 Abimelech said to Sarah, ‘I have given 1,000 pieces of silver to your brother. This is to show everyone that you yourself did nothing wrong. It will pay you for any trouble that you have received.’" 
Genesis20:17 Then Abraham prayed to God. As a result, God made Abimelech become well again. He also made Abimelech's wife and his female slaves become well, so that they could have children again." 
Genesis20:18 The Lord had made them unable to have children. He did this because of what happened to Abraham's wife, Sarah." 
Genesis21:1 The Lord was kind to Sarah. He did what he had promised to do for her. 
Genesis21:2 Sarah became pregnant. She gave birth to a son for Abraham when he was very old. This happened at the time that God promised Abraham it would happen. 
Genesis21:3 Abraham called his son ‘Isaac’. This was the son that Sarah gave birth to. 
Genesis21:4 When Isaac was eight days old, Abraham circumcised him, as God had told him to do." 
Genesis21:5 Abraham was 100 years old when his son, Isaac, was born." 
Genesis21:6 Sarah said, ‘Now God has made me laugh. Everyone who hears about what has happened will be happy with me.’" 
Genesis21:7 She also said, ‘Nobody would ever have said to Abraham that I would feed a child at my breasts. But I have given birth to a son for him, even when he is old.’" 
Genesis21:8 The child grew stronger, and he began to eat food. On that day, Abraham prepared a big party meal." 
Genesis21:9 But Sarah saw that Ishmael was laughing at Isaac. (Ishmael was the son of Abraham and Hagar, the Egyptian servant.)" 
Genesis21:10 So Sarah said to Abraham, ‘Send that slave woman and her son away from here. Ishmael must never receive any of our family's things. Everything must belong to my own son, Isaac.’" 
Genesis21:11 This made Abraham very sad, because Ishmael was his own son." 
Genesis21:12 God said to Abraham, ‘Do not be upset about Ishmael or about Hagar. Do whatever Sarah tells you. Your family's descendants will come through Isaac, not Ishmael." 
Genesis21:13 But because Ishmael is also your son, I will make his descendants become a great nation of people too.’" 
Genesis21:14 Abraham woke up early the next morning. He took some food and some water in a bottle that was made from animal skin. He gave them to Hagar and he put them on her shoulders. Then he sent Hagar away, with their son, Ishmael. She went and she travelled through the desert near Beersheba." 
Genesis21:15 After they had drunk all the water, Hagar put her son in the shade under a bush." 
Genesis21:16 Then she went and sat down about 100 metres away from him. She thought, ‘I cannot watch the boy die.’ As she sat there, she began to cry." 
Genesis21:17 Ishmael was crying and God heard him. The angel of God spoke to Hagar from heaven. He said, ‘What is the trouble, Hagar? Do not be afraid. God has heard the boy while he is crying there." 
Genesis21:18 Go over to him and lift him up. Take hold of his hand and help him to stand. I will make him become a great nation of people.’ 
Genesis21:19 Then God helped Hagar to see clearly. She saw a well with water in it. She went to the well and she filled the bottle with water. She gave the boy some water to drink. 
Genesis21:20 God took care of Ishmael while he grew. The boy lived in the wilderness. He became a hunter of wild animals. 
Genesis21:21 He lived in the Paran wilderness. Hagar, his mother, found an Egyptian woman for him to marry." 
Genesis21:22 At that time Phicol was the leader of King Abimelech's army. Abimelech and Phicol said to Abraham, ‘We see that God helps you in everything that you do." 
Genesis21:23 So please make a promise to me in front of God. Promise that you will never deceive me, or my children, or my descendants. You are living here in this land as a stranger. I have been kind to you, so please show that you will also be kind to us.’" 
Genesis21:24 Abraham said, ‘I promise to do all that.’" 
Genesis21:25 One day, Abraham complained to Abimelech about a certain well of water. Abimelech's servants had taken the well from Abraham. They said that the well belonged to them." 
Genesis21:26 Abimelech said, ‘I do not know who has done this. You did not tell me before. I did not hear about it until today.’" 
Genesis21:27 So Abraham brought some sheep and some cows and he gave them to Abimelech. The two men made a promise to help each other. 
Genesis21:28 Abraham took seven female lambs from the sheep. He put them in a different place from the other animals. 
Genesis21:29 Abimelech asked Abraham, ‘Why have you put these seven lambs in a different place?’" 
Genesis21:30 Abraham replied, ‘You must accept these seven lambs as a gift from me. That will show that you agree that I dug this well. Everyone will know that it belongs to me.’" 
Genesis21:31 Because of that, the name of the place became ‘Beersheba’, because the two men made a promise there." 
Genesis21:32 In that way, they made an agreement at Beersheba to help one another. Then Abimelech and Phicol, the leader of his army, returned to the land of the Philistines." 
Genesis21:33 Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba. In that place, he worshipped the Lord who is God for ever." 
Genesis21:34 Abraham lived in the land of the Philistines for a long time. 
Genesis22:1 Some time later, God wanted to see if Abraham really trusted him. God said to him, ‘Abraham!’ Abraham replied, ‘Here I am.’" 
Genesis22:2 God said, ‘Take your son and go to the land of Moriah. Take your only son Isaac, whom you love. You must offer him to me there as a burnt offering. I will show you the mountain where you must do this.’" 
Genesis22:3 Abraham got up early the next morning. He made his donkey ready for the journey. He took two servants with him, and also his son Isaac. First, he cut wood for the fire to make the burnt offering. Then he started on his journey to the place that God had told him." 
Genesis22:4 On the third day of the journey, Abraham could see the place. It was not very far away." 
Genesis22:5 He said to his servants, ‘Stay here with the donkey. I will take the boy and we will go over there. We will worship God in that place and then we will come back to you.’" 
Genesis22:6 Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering. He gave it to Isaac to carry. Abraham himself carried the fire and the knife. The two of them walked on together. 
Genesis22:7 Isaac spoke to his father, Abraham. He said, ‘Father?’ Abraham replied ‘Yes my son, what is it?’ Isaac said, ‘I see that the fire and the wood are here. But where is the lamb so that we can make the burnt offering?’" 
Genesis22:8 Abraham replied, ‘My son, God himself will provide the lamb for the burnt offering.’ The two of them continued to walk on together." 
Genesis22:9 They came to the place that God told them about. Abraham built an altar there. He put the wood on it, ready for the fire. Then he tied his son Isaac. He lifted him up and he put him on top of the wood on the altar." 
Genesis22:10 Then Abraham took hold of the knife. He was ready to kill his son as a sacrifice. 
Genesis22:11 But then the angel of the spoke to Abraham from heaven. He said, ‘Abraham! Abraham!’ Abraham replied, ‘Here I am.’" 
Genesis22:12 The angel said, ‘Do not hurt the boy! Do not do anything to him. Now I know that you respect God and you obey him. Isaac is your only son and you agreed to offer him to me as a sacrifice. You did not try to keep him safe.’" 
Genesis22:13 Just then, Abraham looked round and he saw a male sheep behind him. Its horns were caught in some bushes. So he went and he took hold of the sheep. Abraham killed the sheep on the altar as a burnt offering to God. In that way, he killed the sheep as a sacrifice, instead of his son." 
Genesis22:14 Abraham called that place ‘The Lord provides.’ People still say today, ‘On the mountain of the Lord, he will provide what we need.’" 
Genesis22:15 The angel of the Lord called from heaven to Abraham again. 
Genesis22:16 He said, ‘This is what the Lord says. I promise that this is what I will do for you. You did not try to keep your son safe, but you offered him to me. And he was your only son." 
Genesis22:17 Because you have done this, I will bless you. I will cause your descendants to be so many that people cannot count them. They will be as many as the stars that are in the sky. They will be as many as the pieces of sand on the shore by the sea. Your descendants will win against their enemies and take their enemies' cities for themselves." 
Genesis22:18 I will bless all the nations on the earth through your descendants. I will do this because you have obeyed me.’ 
Genesis22:19 Then Abraham returned to his servants, with Isaac. Together they all left to go to Beersheba, where Abraham lived." 
Genesis22:20 Later, someone told Abraham ‘Milcah also has given birth to children. Your brother Nahor is their father.’" 
Genesis22:21 The names of the children were: Uz, the son who was born first. Then his brother Buz. Then Kemuel, who is the father of Aram." 
Genesis22:22 Then five more sons: Kesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph and Bethuel." 
Genesis22:23 Bethuel later became the father of Rebekah. Those were the eight sons of Milcah and Abraham's brother, Nahor." 
Genesis22:24 Nahor also had a slave wife. Her name was Reumah. She also gave birth to sons for Nahor. Their names were: Tebah, Gaham, Tahash and Maakah." 
Genesis23:1 Sarah lived for 127 years. 
Genesis23:2 She died in the land of Canaan, at Kiriath Arba. That place is also called Hebron. Abraham was very sad. He went to her tent and he cried very much, because she was dead." 
Genesis23:3 Then Abraham went to the Hittite people and he said to them," 
Genesis23:4 ‘I am living as a stranger among you. Please, sell me some land here, so that it belongs to me. Then I can use it to bury my wife properly.’" 
Genesis23:5 The Hittites replied," 
Genesis23:6 ‘Sir, please listen to what we say. We respect you as a great and powerful person. We have good places where we bury our people who have died. Choose the best one that you like. None of us will refuse to give you the place that you choose. Then you will be able to bury your dead wife there.’" 
Genesis23:7 Abraham stood up. He turned his face towards the ground to respect the Hittites who lived in that place. 
Genesis23:8 He said to them, ‘You have agreed to help me bury my wife here. So please speak to Zohar's son, Ephron, for me." 
Genesis23:9 Ask him to sell the cave of Machpelah to me. It belongs to Ephron. It is at the edge of his field. You will see that I pay the proper price to him. Then it will belong to me. I can bury my family there when they die.’ 
Genesis23:10 Ephron was sitting there with his people, at the city gate. He spoke so that all the Hittites could hear him." 
Genesis23:11 Ephron said, ‘No sir. Please listen to me. You may take my field and the cave. I promise in front of my people that I will give all this to you. Then you can bury your dead wife there.’" 
Genesis23:12 Abraham again turned his face towards the ground to respect the people who lived in that place. 
Genesis23:13 While they were listening, he said to Ephron, ‘Let me say this. I will pay you the price to buy the field. Please accept the money from me. Then I can bury my dead wife there.’" 
Genesis23:14 Ephron replied to Abraham," 
Genesis23:15 ‘Listen to me, sir. The land is worth 400 shekels of silver. But the price is not important, because we are friends. Now bury your dead wife there.’" 
Genesis23:16 Abraham agreed to the price that Ephron had asked for. He weighed the correct amount of silver to give to Ephron. The Hittites there knew that it had been done properly. The weight of 400 shekels agreed with the weights that people used at that time. 
Genesis23:17 In that way, Ephron's field in Machpelah, near Mamre, now belonged to Abraham. This included the field, the cave in the field and all the trees in the field as far as its edge." 
Genesis23:18 All the Hittite people who were sitting there at the city gate agreed that Abraham was the new owner. 
Genesis23:19 After this, Abraham buried his wife, Sarah, in the cave in the field of Machpelah. This field was near Mamre, in the land of Canaan. That place is also called Hebron." 
Genesis23:20 That is how Abraham bought the field and the cave that was in it from the Hittite people. He bought it as a place for his family's graves. 
Genesis24:1 Abraham was now a very old man. The Lord had blessed him in every way. 
Genesis24:2 Abraham had an important servant in his house. He had authority over everything that belonged to Abraham. Abraham said to him, ‘Come here and make a promise to me. Put your hand between my legs to show that I can trust you." 
Genesis24:3 You must make a serious promise to me in front of the Lord. He is the God who rules both heaven and earth. I am living among the Canaanite people, but you must promise this to me: Do not get a Canaanite woman to be a wife for my son." 
Genesis24:4 Instead, you must go to my own country. Go to my family there to find a wife for my son Isaac.’" 
Genesis24:5 The servant asked Abraham, ‘What should I do if the woman will not agree? Maybe she will not come back with me to this land? Must I then take your son to the country that you came from?’" 
Genesis24:6 Abraham replied, ‘No! You must never take my son back there." 
Genesis24:7 The Lord, the God of heaven, took me away from there. He took me out of my father's house. He took me away from the land where my family lives. God made a serious promise to me. He said, “I will give this land to your descendants.” So he will send his angel to go in front of you. When you arrive there, you will find a woman to marry my son." 
Genesis24:8 But perhaps the woman will not agree to come back here with you. If that happens, you will not have to do what you have promised. But do not take my son back to that land.’" 
Genesis24:9 So the servant put his hand between Abraham's legs. He promised that he would do everything that Abraham had told him. 
Genesis24:10 After that, Abraham's servant left to go on his journey. He took with him ten of his master's camels. He also took many different kinds of valuable gifts that Abraham had given to him. He travelled towards Aram Naharaim. He arrived in the town of Nahor." 
Genesis24:11 Abraham's servant stopped outside the town. He made the camels go down on their knees near a well. It was the evening time, when women came to the well to get water." 
Genesis24:12 The servant prayed to God. He prayed, ‘ Lord, God of Abraham, my master, please be my guide today. Be kind to my master Abraham, as you have promised him." 
Genesis24:13 See, I am standing here near this well. The daughters of the people who live in the town will come to get water from the well." 
Genesis24:14 I will say to one of the young women, “Please let me drink some water from your pot.” If she is the right woman for your servant Isaac to marry, please may she say, “Yes, drink. Then I will give water to your camels also.” If that happens, I will know that you have been kind to my master, as you promised.’" 
Genesis24:15 The servant was still praying when Rebekah came to the well. She had her pot on her shoulder. Rebekah was the daughter of Bethuel, who was the son of Milcah. Milcah was the wife of Abraham's brother, Nahor." 
Genesis24:16 The young woman was very beautiful. She had not had sex with any man. She went down to the well. She filled her pot with water and she came back from the well again. 
Genesis24:17 Abraham's servant hurried to meet her. He said, ‘Please give me a little water to drink from your pot.’" 
Genesis24:18 She replied, ‘Yes sir, please drink.’ She quickly took the pot down from her shoulders. She held the pot with her hands and gave him a drink." 
Genesis24:19 After she had done that, she said, ‘Now I will get some water for your camels too. I will do this until they have drunk as much water as they want.’" 
Genesis24:20 So Rebekah quickly poured the water from her pot into the place where the animals drank. She ran back to the well to get more water. She did this until the camels had drunk enough. 
Genesis24:21 Abraham's servant watched the girl, but he did not say anything. He wanted to know if the Lord had helped him to find a wife for Isaac." 
Genesis24:22 The camels finished drinking. Then Abraham's servant took out a valuable gold nose ring. It weighed one half shekel. He also took out two large gold rings for Rebekah's arms. They weighed 10 shekels each. He gave them to Rebekah. 
Genesis24:23 Then he asked her, ‘Whose daughter are you? Please tell me. Is there a room in your father's house for me and my men to sleep there tonight?’" 
Genesis24:24 Rebekah replied ‘I am the daughter of Bethuel. Nahor is his father, and Milcah is his mother." 
Genesis24:25 We have plenty of grass and food for the camels. And there is a room for you to stay with us for the night.’ 
Genesis24:26 Then the servant turned his face towards the ground. He worshipped the Lord. 
Genesis24:27 He said, ‘I praise the Lord who is the God of my master, Abraham. He has been very kind to my master. He has done what he promised to do for him. The Lord has been kind to me too. He has led me here to the house of my master's family.’" 
Genesis24:28 Rebekah quickly ran back home. She told her mother and her family about what had happened. 
Genesis24:29 Rebekah had a brother. His name was Laban. 
Genesis24:30 Laban saw the nose ring and the arm rings that Rebekah was wearing. Rebekah told him what the man had said to her. So Laban went out quickly to the well to meet the servant. He found him as he stood near the well, with his camels." 
Genesis24:31 Laban said to him, ‘The Lord has blessed you! You should not continue to stand out here. Come with me. I have prepared a room for you in my house. There is also a place for your camels.’" 
Genesis24:32 So Abraham's servant went with Laban to the house. They took the luggage off the camels. They brought grass and food for the camels. They also brought water so that Abraham's servant and his men could wash their feet. 
Genesis24:33 Laban's family prepared food for the servant but he said, ‘I will not eat yet. First I must tell you why I have come here.’ Laban said, ‘Please tell us.’" 
Genesis24:34 So the servant said, ‘I am Abraham's servant." 
Genesis24:35 The Lord has blessed my master very much, so that he has become very rich. The Lord has given him sheep and cows, and silver and gold. He has also given him male servants and female servants, camels and donkeys." 
Genesis24:36 Sarah is my master's wife. She has given birth to a son for him, even when she was very old. My master has given his son everything that belongs to him." 
Genesis24:37 My master told me to make a serious promise to him. He said, “I live as a stranger among the Canaanite people. But you must not look for a Canaanite woman to be a wife for my son." 
Genesis24:38 Instead, go to the land where my father lived and find a wife for my son from among my family there.”" 
Genesis24:39 So I asked my master, “What should I do if the woman will not return with me?”" 
Genesis24:40 My master said “I have lived to please the Lord. He will send his angel to go with you. You will find a wife for my son, because the Lord will help you. You will find a wife for him from among my own family." 
Genesis24:41 Go to the place where my relatives live. If they refuse to let you take her, you will be free from your promise to me.” " 
Genesis24:42 I arrived at the town well today. I prayed, “ Lord, God of my master Abraham, please help me to find a wife for my master's son. This is why I have travelled here." 
Genesis24:43 See, I am standing here near this well. If a young woman comes to get water, I will say to her, ‘Please let me drink some water from your pot.’" 
Genesis24:44 If she is the woman that the Lord has chosen for my master's son, please may she say to me, ‘Yes, drink. Then I will also get some water for your camels to drink.’ ”" 
Genesis24:45 While I was still praying quietly, Rebekah arrived at the well. She carried her pot on her shoulder. She went down to the well, and she got some water. Then I said to her “Please give me some water to drink.”" 
Genesis24:46 She quickly took her pot down from her shoulder. She said, “Drink. Then I will get water for your camels too.” So I drank. And she also gave water to the camels." 
Genesis24:47 I asked her, “Whose daughter are you?” She said, “I am the daughter of Bethuel. Nahor is his father and Milcah is his mother.” When I heard that, I put the ring in her nose. I put the rings on her arms." 
Genesis24:48 I turned my face towards the ground and I worshipped the Lord. I praised the Lord, the God of my master, Abraham. The Lord led me to the right place so that I met the granddaughter of my master's brother. The Lord has led me to her, for my master's son." 
Genesis24:49 So tell me what you will say. If you will show faithful love to my master, then please say, “Yes.” But if not, then tell me. Then I will know what to do.’" 
Genesis24:50 Laban and Bethuel replied, ‘We know that the Lord has caused all this to happen. So what we ourselves say is not important." 
Genesis24:51 Here is Rebekah. Take her with you to become the wife of your master's son. That is what the Lord has shown to be right.’ 
Genesis24:52 When Abraham's servant heard their answer, he turned his face towards the ground to thank the Lord." 
Genesis24:53 He brought his master's gifts to give them to Rebekah. They were valuable things made from gold and silver, as well as beautiful clothes. He also gave valuable things to her brother and to her mother." 
Genesis24:54 After that, the servant ate a meal. The men who were with him also ate and drank. They stayed there for the night. When they woke up the next morning, the servant said, ‘Let me leave now so that I can go back to my master.’" 
Genesis24:55 Rebekah's brother and her mother replied, ‘Please let Rebekah stay with us for a few more days. After about ten days, she can go with you.’" 
Genesis24:56 But the servant said, ‘Do not make me stay longer. The Lord has given me what I came here for. Let me leave now so that I can go back to my master.’" 
Genesis24:57 Rebekah's brother and mother said, ‘Let us call the girl. We can ask her what she wants to do.’" 
Genesis24:58 So they called Rebekah to come. They asked her, ‘Will you go with this man now?’ Rebekah said, ‘Yes, I will go.’" 
Genesis24:59 So they agreed to let their sister Rebekah go. Her family servant went with her. They left there with Abraham's servant and his men. 
Genesis24:60 As Rebekah was leaving, her brother and her mother blessed her. They said, ‘Our sister, may you become the mother of millions of descendants. May your descendants win against their enemies. May they take their enemies' cities for themselves.’" 
Genesis24:61 Then Rebekah and her female servants left there, together with Abraham's servant. They took camels to ride on. That was how Abraham's servant took Rebekah and left." 
Genesis24:62 At this time Isaac had returned from Beer Lahai Roi. He was now living in the Negev. 
Genesis24:63 It was evening time. Isaac went out to walk in the fields. He looked up and he saw some camels. They were coming towards him. 
Genesis24:64 Rebekah also looked up and she saw Isaac. She got down from her camel. 
Genesis24:65 She asked Abraham's servant, ‘I see a man in the field who is coming towards us. Who is he?’ The servant replied, ‘He is my master.’ Rebekah covered her face with a piece of cloth." 
Genesis24:66 Then the servant told Isaac everything that had happened. 
Genesis24:67 Isaac took Rebekah into the tent that his mother Sarah had lived in. Rebekah became Isaac's wife. And Isaac loved Rebekah. So Isaac was happy again, after the death of his mother." 
Genesis25:1 Abraham then married another woman. Her name was Keturah. 
Genesis25:2 She gave birth to Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak and Shuah." 
Genesis25:3 Jokshan later became the father of Sheba and Dedan. The descendants of Dedan were the Asshurites, the Letushites and the Leummites." 
Genesis25:4 Midian had sons who were called Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida and Eldaah. All these men were descendants of Abraham's wife, Keturah." 
Genesis25:5 When Abraham died, he left everything that belonged to him to Isaac." 
Genesis25:6 But while he was still alive, he gave gifts to the sons of his slave wives. He sent these sons away to the land of the east. He wanted to keep them far away from Isaac." 
Genesis25:7 Abraham lived for 175 years. 
Genesis25:8 He died after a good and long life, when he was very old. He joined his ancestors who had died before him." 
Genesis25:9 His sons, Isaac and Ishmael, buried his body in the cave of Machpelah, near Mamre. The cave is in the field that belonged to Zohar's son, Ephron. He was a Hittite." 
Genesis25:10 Abraham had bought the field from the Hittites. So they buried Abraham there, where his wife Sarah had also been buried." 
Genesis25:11 After Abraham's death, God blessed Isaac, his son. Isaac was living near Beer Lahai Roi." 
Genesis25:12 This is the report about Abraham's son, Ishmael, and his family. Sarah's female servant gave birth to Ishmael. Her name was Hagar. She was from Egypt." 
Genesis25:13 These are the names of Ishmael's sons. The list starts from the firstborn son and ends with the last son. Nebaioth was the first son of Ishmael. Then there were Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam," 
Genesis25:14 Mishma, Dumah, Massa," 
Genesis25:15 Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish and Kedemah." 
Genesis25:16 These were all Ishmael's sons. Their names became the names of 12 groups of people. They went and lived in different places. Ishmael's sons ruled over the 12 groups of people. 
Genesis25:17 Ishmael lived for 137 years then he died. He joined his ancestors who had died before him. 
Genesis25:18 Ishmael's descendants lived in the lands from Havilah to Shur. These places are near Egypt, towards Asshur. They were always at war with each other." 
Genesis25:19 This is the report about Abraham's son, Isaac, and his family. Abraham became the father of Isaac." 
Genesis25:20 When Isaac was 40 years old, he married Rebekah. Rebekah was the daughter of Bethuel. Bethuel was an Aramean from Paddan Aram. She was the sister of Laban the Aramean." 
Genesis25:21 Rebekah could not have children. So Isaac prayed to the Lord for Rebekah. The Lord answered Isaac's prayer. Isaac's wife, Rebekah, became pregnant." 
Genesis25:22 The babies inside her were fighting with each other. Rebekah said, ‘Why is this happening to me?’ So Rebekah went to ask the Lord." 
Genesis25:23 The Lord said to Rebekah, ‘The two children who are in your body will become two separate nations of people. One group will be stronger than the other. The older son will become a servant to the younger son.’" 
Genesis25:24 The time came for Rebekah to give birth. There were two babies inside her. 
Genesis25:25 The first baby to come out had a red body. Hair covered the whole of his body. They called him Esau. 
Genesis25:26 After this, his brother came out. His hand was holding the back of Esau's foot. They called him Jacob. Isaac was 60 years old when Rebekah gave birth to them." 
Genesis25:27 When the boys became men, Esau was a good hunter, out in the fields. Jacob was a quiet man. He stayed near to the tents." 
Genesis25:28 Isaac liked to eat the meat from the wild animals that Esau killed. So he loved Esau. But Rebekah loved Jacob. 
Genesis25:29 One day, Jacob was cooking a meal. Esau came back from the country. He was very hungry." 
Genesis25:30 He said to Jacob ‘Quick, let me have some of that red food! I am very hungry.’ (That is why Esau was also called Edom.)" 
Genesis25:31 Jacob said, ‘You must first sell me your birthright.’" 
Genesis25:32 Esau said, ‘Look, I am so hungry that I will die. Then my birthright will not help me at all!’" 
Genesis25:33 Jacob said, ‘First, make a serious promise to me.’ So Esau promised to sell his birthright to Jacob." 
Genesis25:34 Then Jacob gave Esau some bread and the soup made from lentils. Esau ate the food and he drank. Then he got up and he left. In that way, Esau showed that he did not think that his birthright was important." 
Genesis26:1 There was another famine in the land. This had happened before, when Abraham was alive. Now Isaac went to Gerar to visit Abimelech, the king of the Philistines." 
Genesis26:2 The Lord appeared to Isaac. He said, ‘Do not go to Egypt. Instead, live in the land that I will show you." 
Genesis26:3 Stay in this land, and I will be with you. I will bless you. I will give these lands to you and to your descendants. I made a strong promise to your father Abraham. I will make that promise become true." 
Genesis26:4 I will give you many descendants. They will be as many as the stars in the sky. And I will give these lands to them. Because of your descendants, I will bless everyone on the earth." 
Genesis26:5 This will happen because Abraham obeyed me. He obeyed all my laws and rules, and he did what I told him to do.’" 
Genesis26:6 So Isaac stayed in Gerar. 
Genesis26:7 The men of Gerar asked Isaac about his wife. He told them, ‘She is my sister.’ He was afraid to say, ‘She is my wife.’ He thought that the men of Gerar might kill him because Rebekah was very beautiful." 
Genesis26:8 Isaac stayed in Gerar for a long time. One day Abimelech, the king of the Philistines, looked down from his window. He saw that Isaac was kissing Rebekah." 
Genesis26:9 Abimelech called Isaac to come to him. He said, ‘Rebekah is your wife! Why did you say, “She is my sister”?’ Isaac replied, ‘I thought that someone might kill me because of her.’" 
Genesis26:10 Abimelech said, ‘You have done a bad thing against us! One of my men might have had sex with your wife. Then we would have been guilty of a bad sin.’" 
Genesis26:11 So Abimelech told his people, ‘I will kill anyone who hurts this man, or his wife.’" 
Genesis26:12 Isaac planted crops in the land and they grew very well. They made 100 times the amount of food that he had planted. This was because the Lord blessed him. 
Genesis26:13 Isaac became rich. His riches continued to grow so that he became a very important person. 
Genesis26:14 He had many sheep, goats and cows. He also had many servants in his house. He had so many servants that the Philistines became jealous of him." 
Genesis26:15 So they took dirt from the ground and they filled up Isaac's wells. When Abraham was alive, his servants had dug these wells to get water." 
Genesis26:16 Abimelech said to Isaac ‘You have become too powerful for us. Go and live somewhere else.’ 
Genesis26:17 So Isaac moved away from that place. He put his tents in Gerar Valley and he stayed there. 
Genesis26:18 Isaac dug the dirt out of the wells that Abraham had dug. After Abraham died the Philistines had filled them with dirt. Isaac gave these wells the same names as his father had given them. 
Genesis26:19 Isaac's servants went to dig in the valley. They found another well there. It was full of fresh water. 
Genesis26:20 But the shepherds of Gerar quarrelled with Isaac's shepherds. They said, ‘The water belongs to us!’ So Isaac called that well Esek, because they quarrelled with him there." 
Genesis26:21 So Isaac's servants dug another well. But the shepherds of Gerar quarrelled about that one too. Isaac called that well Sitnah. 
Genesis26:22 Isaac moved away from Sitnah and he dug another well. No one quarrelled with him about this well. So he called it Rehoboth. He said, ‘Now the Lord has given us a place to live. We will have many good things in this land.’" 
Genesis26:23 From that place, Isaac went to Beersheba." 
Genesis26:24 That night the Lord appeared to him. The Lord said, ‘I am the God of your father Abraham. Do not be afraid, because I am with you. I will bless you. I will give you many descendants because of my servant Abraham.’" 
Genesis26:25 Isaac built an altar there and he worshipped the Lord. He put up his tent there. His servants dug a well. 
Genesis26:26 During that time, Abimelech had come from Gerar to visit Isaac. He came with Ahuzzath his officer and with Phicol the leader of his army." 
Genesis26:27 Isaac asked them, ‘Why have you come to me? You hated me and you sent me away from you.’" 
Genesis26:28 They replied, ‘We saw that the Lord is with you. So we said to one another, “There should be an agreement between us and you.” So let us promise to be friends." 
Genesis26:29 Promise that you will not hurt us. We did not hurt you. We did only good things for you. We sent you away as friends. Now the Lord is blessing you.’ 
Genesis26:30 Then Isaac made a large meal for them. And they all ate happily together. 
Genesis26:31 Early the next morning, they promised each other to be friends. Then Isaac said ‘goodbye’ to them. They left as his friends." 
Genesis26:32 The same day, Isaac's servants came to him. They told him about a well that they had dug. They said, ‘We have found water!’" 
Genesis26:33 Isaac called the well Shibah. So the town is still called Beersheba. 
Genesis26:34 When Esau was 40 years old, he married Judith. She was the daughter of Beer the Hittite. He also married Basemath. She was the daughter of Elon the Hittite." 
Genesis26:35 Esau's wives brought a lot of trouble to Isaac and Rebekah. 
Genesis27:1 Isaac became old. He could not see anything because his eyes were weak. He called for his older son, Esau. Isaac said, ‘My son.’ Esau replied, ‘Yes, I am here.’" 
Genesis27:2 Isaac said, ‘I am an old man. I may die very soon." 
Genesis27:3 Get your bow and your arrows. Go out into the country and kill some wild animals for me. 
Genesis27:4 Then prepare the food that I like to eat. Bring it to me so that I can eat it. Then I will give you my blessing before I die.’ 
Genesis27:5 Rebekah had listened to what Isaac said to Esau. She waited until Esau went out to the country to kill an animal and bring back the meat. 
Genesis27:6 Then she said to Jacob, ‘I heard your father say this to Esau:" 
Genesis27:7 “Bring me some meat and prepare the food that I like to eat. When I have eaten it, I will give you my blessing. I will bless you in front of the Lord before I die.” " 
Genesis27:8 Now my son, listen carefully and do as I tell you." 
Genesis27:9 Go out to the farm animals and bring two goats to me. They must be very good young goats. Then I will prepare some food that your father likes to eat. I will cook the meat in the way that he likes. 
Genesis27:10 Then take the food to your father. When he has eaten it, he will give you his blessing before he dies.’" 
Genesis27:11 Jacob said to his mother Rebekah, ‘That will be difficult. Hair covers my brother's skin. But my skin does not have any hair." 
Genesis27:12 My father may touch me. Then he will know that I am deceiving him. He will not bless me. He will curse me instead.’ 
Genesis27:13 Jacob's mother said, ‘My son, the curse will happen to me, not to you. Do what I say. Go and get the goats for me.’" 
Genesis27:14 Jacob went and he got the goats. He brought them to his mother. She prepared some food in the way that Isaac liked to eat it. 
Genesis27:15 Then Rebekah took some of Esau's best clothes that were in the house. She put them on Jacob, her younger son." 
Genesis27:16 She covered Jacob's hands with the skin from the goats. She also covered the part of his neck that had no hair. 
Genesis27:17 Then she gave Jacob the food that Isaac liked to eat. And she gave him some bread that she had made. 
Genesis27:18 Jacob went to his father. He said, ‘My father.’ Isaac replied ‘Yes, my son. Who are you, Esau or Jacob?’" 
Genesis27:19 Jacob said, ‘I am Esau. I am your firstborn son. I have done as you told me. Please sit up. Eat some of the meat from the wild animal that I killed. Then you can bless me.’" 
Genesis27:20 Isaac asked his son, ‘My son, how did you find it so quickly?’ Jacob replied, ‘The Lord your God helped me to find it.’" 
Genesis27:21 Isaac said to Jacob, ‘Come near to me so that I can touch you, my son. Then I will know if you really are my son Esau.’" 
Genesis27:22 Jacob went near to his father. Isaac touched him and he said, ‘The voice is Jacob's voice. But the hands are Esau's hands.’" 
Genesis27:23 Isaac did not know that it was Jacob because he could feel the hair on Jacob's hands. They felt like Esau's hands. So Isaac blessed Jacob. 
Genesis27:24 Isaac asked again, ‘Are you really my son Esau?’ Jacob replied, ‘I am.’" 
Genesis27:25 Isaac said, ‘My son, bring me some of your meat. I will eat it. Then I will bless you.’ So Jacob brought the food to him and Isaac ate it. Jacob also brought some wine and Isaac drank it." 
Genesis27:26 Then Isaac said, ‘Come here my son and kiss me.’" 
Genesis27:27 So Jacob went to Isaac and kissed him. Isaac smelled the clothes that Jacob wore. Then Isaac blessed him. He said, ‘The smell of my son is like the smell of a field. It is like a field that the Lord has blessed." 
Genesis27:28 May God give you rain for your crops, so that they grow well in the good ground. Then you will have plenty of grain for food. And you will have grapes to make wine." 
Genesis27:29 May the people of many nations serve you. May they respect you as their master. You will rule over your brothers. Yes, your mother's sons will bend down to respect you. May God curse anyone who curses you. And may he bless anyone who blesses you.’" 
Genesis27:30 When Isaac had blessed Jacob, Jacob left him. At that moment, Esau came back from the country where he had killed an animal." 
Genesis27:31 He prepared nice food that Isaac liked to eat. Then he took the food to his father, Isaac. Esau said, ‘My father, please sit up. Eat some of the meat from the wild animal that I have killed. Then you can bless me.’" 
Genesis27:32 His father Isaac asked, ‘Who are you?’ Esau replied, ‘I am your firstborn son, Esau.’" 
Genesis27:33 Isaac's body shook very strongly. He asked, ‘Who was it who killed an animal and brought the meat to me? Just before you came, I ate all of it. And then I blessed him. And God will certainly bless him!’" 
Genesis27:34 Esau heard what his father had said and he cried aloud. He was very upset. He said, ‘My father, please bless me too!’" 
Genesis27:35 But Isaac said, ‘Your brother came to me. He deceived me and he took your blessing away from you.’" 
Genesis27:36 Esau said, ‘Yes, “Jacob” is the right name for him. He has cheated me twice. First he took my birthright. Now he has taken my blessing as well!’ Then Esau said to his father, ‘You must surely still have some blessing for me.’" 
Genesis27:37 Isaac said to Esau, ‘I have made Jacob master over you. All his relatives will now be his servants. I have given him crops and wine. So what can I still do to bless you, my son?’" 
Genesis27:38 Esau said, ‘My father, you surely still have one blessing for me. Please bless me too!’ Then Esau wept loudly." 
Genesis27:39 Isaac replied, ‘You will not live in a place where the ground gives good food. You will not have rain to make your crops grow." 
Genesis27:40 You will have to fight to get the things that you need. You will serve your brother as your master. But when you choose to turn against him, you will become free from his power over you.’" 
Genesis27:41 Because Isaac had blessed Jacob, Esau hated his younger brother Jacob. Esau said quietly, ‘My father will die soon. When we have buried his body, I will kill my brother.’" 
Genesis27:42 Someone told Rebekah what her older son, Esau, had said. So she told her younger son, Jacob, to come to her. She said to him, ‘Your brother Esau wants to kill you, because of what you did to him." 
Genesis27:43 Now my son, do what I tell you. Quickly go away from here. Go to my brother Laban who lives in Haran." 
Genesis27:44 Live with him for a time. Stay there until your brother is no longer angry with you. 
Genesis27:45 He may forget what you did to him. Then I will send a message to you, so that you can come back from Haran. I do not want to lose both of my sons in one day.’" 
Genesis27:46 Then Rebekah said to Isaac, ‘I do not like living in the same place as Esau's wives. It makes me very upset, because they are Hittites. If Jacob marries one of the Hittite women who live in this land, I will be very sad. I would rather die!’" 
Genesis28:1 Isaac called Jacob to come to him. He blessed Jacob. He told him, ‘Do not marry a Canaanite woman." 
Genesis28:2 Go now to Paddan Aram. Go to the house of your mother's father, Bethuel. Find a wife for yourself from there. Choose one of the daughters of your mother's brother, Laban." 
Genesis28:3 I pray that God Almighty will bless you. I pray that he will give you many children, so that your descendants become a large nation of people." 
Genesis28:4 May God bless you and your descendants with the good things that he promised to Abraham. The land that he promised to give to Abraham will then belong to you. That is the land where you now live as a foreign person.’ 
Genesis28:5 Isaac sent Jacob away and Jacob went to Paddan Aram. He went to stay with Laban, who was the son of Bethuel, the Aramean. Laban was the brother of Rebekah. Rebekah was the mother of Jacob and Esau." 
Genesis28:6 Esau learned that Isaac had blessed Jacob and he had sent him away to Paddan Aram. Isaac had told Jacob to find a woman from Paddan Aram to be his wife. Isaac had said to Jacob, ‘Do not marry a Canaanite woman.’" 
Genesis28:7 Esau realized that Jacob had obeyed his father and mother, and that he had gone to Paddan Aram." 
Genesis28:8 So Esau then understood that his father, Isaac, did not like the Canaanite women." 
Genesis28:9 So Esau went to visit Abraham's son, Ishmael. He married Ishmael's daughter, Mahalath, the sister of Nebaioth. When Esau married Mahalath, he kept his Canaanite wives as well." 
Genesis28:10 Jacob left Beersheba and he went towards Haran. 
Genesis28:11 He came to a place where he stayed for the night, because the sun had gone down. He took a stone and he put it under his head. Then he lay down and he went to sleep." 
Genesis28:12 He had a dream. In the dream, he saw some steps. The steps went up from the earth into heaven. God's angels were going up and down the steps." 
Genesis28:13 The Lord stood at the top of the steps. He said, ‘I am the Lord. I am the God of your grandfather Abraham, and the God of Isaac, your father. I will give the land that you are lying on to you and to your descendants." 
Genesis28:14 Your descendants will be as many as the dust of the earth. They will go to the west and to the east. They will go to the north and to the south. Through you and your descendants I will bless all the families of people on the earth. 
Genesis28:15 I am with you. I will take care of you wherever you go. I will bring you back to this land. I will not leave you. I will do what I have promised to do for you.’ 
Genesis28:16 Jacob woke from his sleep. He thought, ‘The Lord is in this place and I did not know it.’" 
Genesis28:17 Jacob was afraid. He said, ‘How great this place is! This must be the house of God. This is the gate of heaven.’" 
Genesis28:18 Early in the morning Jacob got up. He took the stone that he had put under his head. He made it stand up straight in the ground. He poured olive oil over it. 
Genesis28:19 Jacob called that place Bethel. Before that, the name of the place had been Luz." 
Genesis28:20 Then Jacob made a promise to God. He said, ‘While I am on this journey, I want God to be with me. I want him to protect me. I want him to give me food to eat and clothes to wear." 
Genesis28:21 Then I want to return to my father's house. If God keeps me safe, then the Lord will be my God." 
Genesis28:22 This special stone that I have put here will be God's house. And from everything that God gives me, I will give him one tenth.’" 
Genesis29:1 Jacob continued on his journey. He came to the land where the people from the east live. 
Genesis29:2 He saw a well in a field. Three groups of sheep lay near it. Shepherds were taking water from the well to give to their sheep. There was a large stone that covered the top of the well. 
Genesis29:3 The shepherds waited until all the sheep were there together. Then they removed the stone from the top of the well. They gave their sheep water to drink, and then they put the stone back on the top of the well." 
Genesis29:4 Jacob asked the shepherds, ‘My brothers, where is your home?’ The shepherds replied, ‘We are from Haran.’" 
Genesis29:5 Jacob said, ‘Do you know Laban? He is Nahor's grandson.’ The shepherds replied, ‘Yes, we know him.’" 
Genesis29:6 Jacob asked them, ‘Is he in good health?’ They replied, ‘Yes, he is. Look. Here comes his daughter now, with her father's sheep. Her name is Rachel.’" 
Genesis29:7 Jacob said to them, ‘The sun is still high in the sky. It is not yet the right time to bring all the sheep together. So give them some water now. Then they can go back to the fields and eat more grass.’" 
Genesis29:8 The shepherds said, ‘We cannot do that. We have to wait until all the sheep are here together. Then we can remove the big stone from the well and we can give water to the sheep.’" 
Genesis29:9 While Jacob was speaking to the shepherds, Rachel arrived there. She brought her father's sheep with her. She was the one who took care of them." 
Genesis29:10 Jacob saw Rachel, the daughter of his uncle Laban. He saw that she had Laban's sheep with her. So Jacob went to the well and he removed the big stone. He gave water to Laban's sheep." 
Genesis29:11 Then Jacob kissed Rachel and he began to weep aloud. 
Genesis29:12 Jacob told Rachel that he was a relative of her father, Laban. He told her that he was Rebekah's son. So Rachel ran to tell her father." 
Genesis29:13 When Laban had heard what Rachel said, he went quickly to meet Jacob, his sister's son. He put his arms round Jacob and he kissed him. Laban brought Jacob to his home. Jacob told Laban all his news." 
Genesis29:14 Then Laban said, ‘Yes, you really are my own relative.’ So Jacob stayed with Laban for a month." 
Genesis29:15 Then Laban said to Jacob, ‘You should not work for me for nothing because you are my relative. Tell me what I should pay you.’" 
Genesis29:16 Laban had two daughters. The name of the older daughter was Leah. The name of the younger daughter was Rachel. 
Genesis29:17 Leah had weak eyes. But Rachel was very beautiful. 
Genesis29:18 Jacob loved Rachel. He said to Laban, ‘I will work for you for seven years. In return, I want to marry your younger daughter, Rachel.’" 
Genesis29:19 Laban said, ‘It is better for me to give her to you as your wife than to give her to another man. Stay here with me.’" 
Genesis29:20 Jacob worked for seven years to have Rachel as his wife. But the years passed very quickly because Jacob loved Rachel very much. Seven years seemed like only a few days to Jacob. 
Genesis29:21 So finally, Jacob said to Laban, ‘Give me my wife. My time to work for you has finished and I want to marry her.’" 
Genesis29:22 Laban called all the people in that place to come together. He prepared a big meal for them to eat. 
Genesis29:23 When evening came, Laban brought his daughter Leah to Jacob. Jacob slept that night with her as his wife." 
Genesis29:24 Laban gave his female servant to Leah to be her servant. Her name was Zilpah. 
Genesis29:25 When morning came, Jacob saw that he had slept with Leah! He said to Laban, ‘You have done a very bad thing to me! I worked for you to have Rachel as my wife. Why have you deceived me?’" 
Genesis29:26 Laban replied, ‘In our land, we do not give the younger daughter to a man first. We let the older daughter marry first." 
Genesis29:27 So finish this week of Leah's marriage. Then we will give you Rachel to marry too. But you must work for another seven years.’ 
Genesis29:28 So Jacob did what Laban said. He finished the marriage week with Leah. Then Laban gave Rachel to Jacob to be his wife. 
Genesis29:29 Laban gave his female servant Bilhah to Rachel to become her servant. 
Genesis29:30 Jacob also slept with Rachel. He loved Rachel more than he loved Leah. He worked for Laban for seven more years. 
Genesis29:31 The Lord saw that Jacob did not love Leah. So he let her become pregnant. But Rachel did not give birth to any children. 
Genesis29:32 So Leah became pregnant and she gave birth to a son. She called him Reuben. She said, ‘It is because the Lord has seen how sad I am. My husband will love me now because I have given birth to a son.’" 
Genesis29:33 Leah became pregnant again. She gave birth to another son. She said, ‘The Lord has given me another son. He knows that my husband does not love me.’ She called this son Simeon." 
Genesis29:34 Leah became pregnant again. Later, she gave birth to another son. She said, ‘Now I have given my husband three sons, so he will want to stay near to me.’ She called this son Levi." 
Genesis29:35 Leah became pregnant again. She gave birth to another son. She said, ‘This time I will praise the Lord.’ She called this son Judah. Then she stopped giving birth to children." 
Genesis30:1 Rachel now knew that she could not give birth to any children for Jacob. So she became jealous of her sister, Leah. Rachel said to Jacob, ‘Please give me children. If not, I will die.’" 
Genesis30:2 Jacob became angry with Rachel. He said, ‘Am I God? God has not allowed you to give birth to children!’" 
Genesis30:3 Rachel said, ‘Take my servant Bilhah and have sex with her. Then she can have children for me. Through her, I can have a family.’" 
Genesis30:4 So Rachel gave her servant Bilhah to Jacob to become his wife. 
Genesis30:5 Bilhah became pregnant and she gave birth to a son for Jacob. 
Genesis30:6 Rachel said, ‘God has shown that I am right. He has listened to me and he has given a son to me.’ Because of this, she called the boy Dan." 
Genesis30:7 Rachel's servant Bilhah became pregnant again. She gave birth to another son for Jacob. 
Genesis30:8 Rachel said, ‘I have fought with my sister and I have won.’ She called this son Naphtali." 
Genesis30:9 Leah saw that she had stopped having children. So she gave her servant Zilpah to Jacob as a wife. 
Genesis30:10 Zilpah became pregnant and she gave birth to a son for Jacob. 
Genesis30:11 Leah said, ‘This is very good for me.’ She called the boy Gad." 
Genesis30:12 Leah's servant Zilpah gave Jacob another son. 
Genesis30:13 Leah said, ‘I am very happy! Women will call me happy.’ So she called this boy Asher." 
Genesis30:14 It was the time for the harvest of wheat. Reuben went out and he found some mandrake plants in a field. He took them to his mother, Leah. Rachel said to Leah, ‘Please give me some of the mandrakes that your son has given to you.’" 
Genesis30:15 But Leah said to Rachel, ‘You took my husband from me. That was bad enough! Now you want to take my son's mandrakes too!’ Rachel said, ‘If you give me some of your son's mandrakes, Jacob can sleep with you tonight.’" 
Genesis30:16 In the evening, Jacob came in from the fields. Leah went out to meet him. She said, ‘You must sleep with me tonight. I have paid for you with my son's mandrakes.’ So Jacob slept with Leah that night." 
Genesis30:17 God listened to Leah and she became pregnant again. She gave birth to a fifth son for Jacob. 
Genesis30:18 Leah said, ‘God has helped me because I gave my servant to Jacob as a wife.’ She called her son Issachar." 
Genesis30:19 Leah became pregnant again and she gave Jacob a sixth son. 
Genesis30:20 Leah said, ‘God has given me this valuable gift. Now my husband will respect me because I have given him six sons.’ She called this son Zebulun." 
Genesis30:21 After some time, Leah became pregnant again. She gave birth to a daughter. She called her daughter Dinah." 
Genesis30:22 Then God decided to help Rachel. He answered her prayer so that she became pregnant. 
Genesis30:23 She gave birth to a son. Rachel said, ‘I am not ashamed any longer, because God has given me a son.’" 
Genesis30:24 Rachel called her son Joseph. She said, ‘I pray that the Lord will give me another son.’" 
Genesis30:25 After Rachel had given birth to Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, ‘Let me go away now. I want to go home to my own land." 
Genesis30:26 Let me take my wives and my children with me. I have worked for you so that I could have them. You must let me leave, because you know how much I have worked for you.’" 
Genesis30:27 Laban said to Jacob, ‘If you are pleased with me then please stay here. I know that the Lord has blessed me because you are here with me. I have used magic to know that.’" 
Genesis30:28 Laban also said to Jacob, ‘Tell me how much I should pay you for your work. I will pay whatever you want.’" 
Genesis30:29 Jacob replied, ‘You know how much I have worked for you. You can see that you have many more animals now, because I have taken care of them." 
Genesis30:30 Before I came, you had only a few sheep and goats. Now you have many more animals. Wherever I have worked for you, the Lord has blessed you. But now I want to work to help my own family.’" 
Genesis30:31 Laban asked, ‘What must I give to you?’ Jacob replied, ‘You do not need to give me anything. But please do one thing for me. Then I will continue to take care of your animals. I will keep them safe." 
Genesis30:32 Let me go among all your animals today. I will remove any animal that has a mark on it or that has more than one colour on its skin. I will also take any black lambs. That is what you will give me for my work. 
Genesis30:33 In the future, this will show that I am honest. You can check on my animals whenever you want to. I will only have sheep or goats that have marks on their skin, or black lambs. If I have any other animals, you may call me a robber.’" 
Genesis30:34 Laban said, ‘I agree to this. It will be as you have said.’" 
Genesis30:35 On that same day, Laban went to his animals. He quickly removed all the goats that had marks, both male and female goats. He also removed all the black lambs. He gave these animals to his sons to take care of them." 
Genesis30:36 He sent those animals a long way away. It would take Jacob three days to reach them. While this was happening, Jacob was taking care of Laban's other animals." 
Genesis30:37 Jacob took branches that he had cut from trees. He took them from poplar trees, almond trees and plane trees. He cut white lines on the branches. He removed the outside part of the wood to show white lines." 
Genesis30:38 Then he put the branches in the place where there were big bowls of water for the animals to drink. They were in front of the animals when they came to drink. That was where the animals had sex together. 
Genesis30:39 After they had sex in front of the branches, they gave birth to babies that had skin with marks on it." 
Genesis30:40 Jacob kept these lambs separate from Laban's animals. He took the rest of Laban's female animals to join with the animals that had marks or were black. In that way he got more animals that would belong to him. He kept them separate from Laban's animals. 
Genesis30:41 Jacob waited until the stronger female animals were ready to have sex. Then he put the special branches in front of them, near the big bowls of water. Then these animals would see the branches when they had sex together." 
Genesis30:42 But if the female animals were weak, he did not put the branches in front of them when they had sex. As a result, the weak animals would belong to Laban, but Jacob would keep the strong animals." 
Genesis30:43 In this way, Jacob became very rich. Many sheep and goats belonged to him. He also had female servants and male servants, camels and donkeys." 
Genesis31:1 Jacob heard that Laban's sons were complaining about him. They were saying, ‘Jacob has taken everything that belonged to our father. He has taken things from our father and he has become rich himself.’" 
Genesis31:2 And Jacob could see that Laban was not as nice to him as he had been before. 
Genesis31:3 Then the Lord said to Jacob, ‘Go back to the land where your father and grandfather lived. Go back to your relatives. I will be with you there.’" 
Genesis31:4 Jacob sent a message to Rachel and Leah. He said that they must come to the field where he was taking care of his animals. 
Genesis31:5 Jacob said to them, ‘I see that your father is not as nice to me now as he was before. But the God of my father has been with me." 
Genesis31:6 You know that I have worked very hard for your father with all my strength. 
Genesis31:7 But your father has cheated me many times. He has changed what I receive for my work at least ten times. But God has protected me from him. 
Genesis31:8 Sometimes Laban said, “I will pay you with the animals that have different colours on their skin.” If he said that, all the animals gave birth to babies with different colours on their skin. Sometimes he said, “I will pay you with the animals that have marks on them.” Then all the animals gave birth to babies with marks on them." 
Genesis31:9 In this way God took away your father's animals, and he gave them to me." 
Genesis31:10 One night I had a dream. It was at the time when the animals were becoming pregnant. In the dream, I saw that the male goats had marks and different colours on their skin." 
Genesis31:11 The angel of God spoke to me in the dream. He said, “Jacob.” I replied, “Yes, here I am.”" 
Genesis31:12 The angel said, “Look carefully. See all the male goats that are having sex with the female goats. They all have marks and different colours on their skin. I am helping you because I have seen the bad things that Laban has done to you." 
Genesis31:13 I am the God who appeared to you at Bethel. That is where you poured olive oil on the special stone and you made a promise to me. Now I am telling you to leave this land. Go back to the land where you were born.” ’ 
Genesis31:14 Rachel and Leah replied, ‘Our father will not give us anything more when he dies." 
Genesis31:15 He now thinks of us like foreigners. You worked hard for him so that we could become your wives. He has cheated us as well as you! 
Genesis31:16 So everything that God has taken away from our father really belongs to us and to our children. So you must do everything that God has told you to do.’ 
Genesis31:17 So Jacob put his children and wives on his camels. 
Genesis31:18 He put together all his animals and everything that he had received in Paddan Aram. He took them with him to go to the land of Canaan. He left to go back to his father Isaac. 
Genesis31:19 Before they left, Laban had gone to cut the wool from his sheep. While he was away from the house, Rachel took the idols that Laban worshipped in his house." 
Genesis31:20 Jacob deceived Laban the Aramean. He did not tell Laban that he was going away. 
Genesis31:21 Jacob went away quickly and he took all his things. He went across the Euphrates River. He went towards the hill country of Gilead. 
Genesis31:22 After three days, someone told Laban that Jacob had gone away." 
Genesis31:23 So Laban took his relatives with him and he followed Jacob. After seven days, he found him in the hill country of Gilead." 
Genesis31:24 Then God appeared to Laban the Aramean in a dream at night. God warned him, ‘Be careful what you say to Jacob. Do not say anything good or bad to him.’" 
Genesis31:25 Jacob had put up his tent in the hill country of Gilead. That is where Laban found him. So Laban and his relatives also put up their tents in that place. 
Genesis31:26 Laban said to Jacob, ‘Why did you do that? You have deceived me. You have taken my daughters away as if you had caught them in a war." 
Genesis31:27 Why did you go away secretly? Yes, you have deceived me. You should have told me that you were leaving. Then I would have prepared a big meal. We would have been happy together, with songs and music with harps and tambourines." 
Genesis31:28 But you did not even let me say “goodbye” to my daughters or my grandchildren. What you have done is not right. 
Genesis31:29 I have the power to hurt you. But last night the God of your father appeared to me. He told me, “Be careful what you say to Jacob. Do not say anything good or bad to him.”" 
Genesis31:30 I know that you want very much to return to your father's house. That is why you have left my home. But why did you take my idols?’ 
Genesis31:31 Jacob replied, ‘I left secretly because I was afraid. I thought that you might fight me to take your daughters away from me." 
Genesis31:32 But if you find your idols with anyone here, that person must die. While our relatives watch, you may look for anything that belongs to you. If you find anything then take it.’ Jacob did not know that Rachel had taken her father's idols." 
Genesis31:33 So Laban went into Jacob's tent. Then he went into Leah's tent. He also went into the female servants' tent. But he did not find the idols. When he left Leah's tent, he went into Rachel's tent." 
Genesis31:34 Rachel had taken the idols and she had put them inside her camel's seat. Now she was sitting on them. Laban looked everywhere in Rachel's tent but he did not find the idols. 
Genesis31:35 Rachel said to him, ‘Do not be angry with me, sir. I cannot stand up in front of you. It is the time of my monthly blood loss.’ So Laban looked everywhere for the idols, but he did not find them." 
Genesis31:36 Then Jacob became angry and he quarrelled with Laban. He asked Laban, ‘What have I done wrong? What sin have I done against you so that you had to chase me?" 
Genesis31:37 Now you have looked through everything that I have. Did you find anything that belongs to you? If you have found anything, put it here. Then your relatives and my relatives can see it. Our relatives can decide which of us is right, you or me!" 
Genesis31:38 I have worked for you for 20 years. Your female sheep and goats have all safely given birth to young ones. I have not taken any of your male animals as food for myself. 
Genesis31:39 If wild animals attacked your sheep or goats, I did not show them to you. I myself paid you for them. If any animal was lost, in the day or at night, you said that I must pay you for it." 
Genesis31:40 I worked for you in the strong heat of the sun in the day. I had pain from the cold at night. I could not always sleep. 
Genesis31:41 It was like this for 20 years as I worked like a slave for you. I worked for 14 years to pay you for your two daughters. Then I worked for six years for your sheep and goats. You changed what you paid me at least ten times! 
Genesis31:42 The God of my father, the God of Abraham and the Fear of Isaac was with me. If he had not helped me, then you would have sent me away with nothing. But God has seen what you have done to hurt me. He has seen how hard I have worked for you. So last night he told you that you had done wrong.’" 
Genesis31:43 Laban replied to Jacob, ‘These women are my daughters. Their children are my grandchildren. The animals are my animals. Everything that you have with you here belongs to me. But there is nothing that I can do today about my daughters or about their children." 
Genesis31:44 So we should be friends. Let us make an agreement together. It will show that we have promised to be friends.’ 
Genesis31:45 So Jacob took a large stone and made it stand up in the ground. 
Genesis31:46 He said to his relatives, ‘Go and get some stones.’ So they brought some stones and they made a heap with them. Then they all ate a meal together, near the heap of stones." 
Genesis31:47 Laban called that place Jegar Sahadutha. Jacob called it Galeed. 
Genesis31:48 Laban said, ‘These stones show that we have made an agreement today.’ That is why the place was called Galeed." 
Genesis31:49 The place was also called Mizpah. That was because Laban said, ‘May the Lord watch you and me when we are far away from each other." 
Genesis31:50 Remember that God is watching you. If you do wrong to my daughters, God will see it. And if you marry any other women, remember this. God is watching you. Even if no one else sees you, God will know.’" 
Genesis31:51 Laban also said, ‘I have put this special stone here, and the heap of stones near it. They stand here between your land and my land." 
Genesis31:52 I will not go past the stones to your side to hurt you. And you must not go past them to my side to hurt me. 
Genesis31:53 Let the God of Abraham, and the god of Nahor and their ancestors decide if one of us is guilty.’ So Jacob made a promise in the name of the God that his father Isaac worshipped." 
Genesis31:54 He offered a sacrifice to God there in the hill country. He asked his relatives to eat a meal with him. After they had eaten, they stayed the night there." 
Genesis31:55 Early the next morning, Laban got up to return home. He kissed his grandchildren and his daughters. He said ‘goodbye’ and he blessed them. Then he left and he went back to his home." 
Genesis32:1 Jacob continued on his journey to his father's house. On his way the angels of God met him. 
Genesis32:2 When Jacob saw them, he said, ‘This is where God's army has put up their tents!’ So he called that place Mahanaim." 
Genesis32:3 Jacob sent men with a message to his brother Esau. Esau was living in the land of Seir, also called Edom." 
Genesis32:4 Jacob told his men, ‘This is what you must say to my master Esau: Your servant Jacob says, “I have stayed with Laban until now." 
Genesis32:5 I have cows, donkeys, sheep and goats. I have male and female servants. Now I am sending this message to your, my master, so that you will be pleased with me.” ’" 
Genesis32:6 When the men returned, they said to Jacob, ‘We went to your brother Esau. Now he is coming to meet you and he has 400 men with him.’" 
Genesis32:7 Jacob was very frightened and upset when he heard this. So he divided his people into two separate groups. He also divided his animals. 
Genesis32:8 He thought, ‘If Esau attacks one group, the other group may run away safely.’" 
Genesis32:9 Then Jacob prayed, ‘God of my grandfather Abraham and my father Isaac, Lord, you said to me, “Go back to your country and to your relatives. I will do good things for you there.”" 
Genesis32:10 You have always loved me. You have continued to be kind to me. I do not deserve this. When I went across the Jordan River to go to Haran, I only had my stick. But now I can make two big groups of people and animals." 
Genesis32:11 I pray that you will save me from the power of my brother Esau. I am afraid that he will come and attack me. He may also attack my family. 
Genesis32:12 But you have said, “I will give you many good things. I will give you so many descendants that nobody will be able to count them. They will be as many as the pieces of sand on the shore of the sea.” ’" 
Genesis32:13 Jacob stayed in that place for the night. He chose some of his animals as a gift for Esau. 
Genesis32:14 He chose 200 female goats, 20 male goats, 200 female sheep and 20 male sheep." 
Genesis32:15 He also chose 30 female camels, with their young ones, 40 cows and ten bulls, 20 female donkeys and ten male donkeys." 
Genesis32:16 He told his servants to take care of them. He divided each group of animals from the other groups. Jacob said to his servants, ‘Go in front of me. Keep some space between each group of animals.’" 
Genesis32:17 He told the servant who led the first group of animals, ‘When my brother Esau meets you, he may ask, “Who do you belong to? Where are you going? Who do all these animals belong to?”" 
Genesis32:18 Then you must say, “They belong to your servant Jacob. They are a gift that he has sent to my lord Esau. Jacob himself is coming behind us.” ’" 
Genesis32:19 Jacob also told the servants who led the other groups of animals, as well as the servants who followed behind them, ‘You are to say the same thing to Esau, when you meet him." 
Genesis32:20 You must also say, “Your servant Jacob is coming behind us.” ’ Jacob thought, ‘Esau will be happy to receive my gifts. He will no longer be angry with me. Then, when I meet him, he will not hurt me.’" 
Genesis32:21 So Jacob sent the men with his gifts to go to meet Esau. But he himself stayed in that place for the night. 
Genesis32:22 During the night Jacob took with him his two wives, his two female servants and his eleven sons. They went across the Jabbok River where the water was not deep." 
Genesis32:23 After Jacob had sent his family across, he also sent all his things across the stream." 
Genesis32:24 Then Jacob was alone. A man came and fought with him for a long time. They continued the fight until dawn. 
Genesis32:25 The man saw that he was not winning the fight against Jacob. So he hit Jacob's hip while they were fighting. As a result, Jacob's hip moved out of its proper place." 
Genesis32:26 Then the man said to Jacob, ‘Now let me go because dawn has come.’ But Jacob said, ‘I will not let you go unless you bless me.’" 
Genesis32:27 The man asked Jacob, ‘What is your name?’ Jacob replied, ‘My name is Jacob.’" 
Genesis32:28 Then the man said, ‘Your name will not be Jacob any longer. Your name will now be Israel, because you have fought with God and you have fought with men. And you have won!’" 
Genesis32:29 Then Jacob said, ‘Please tell me your name.’ But the man said, ‘Why do you want to know my name?’ Then he blessed Jacob in that place." 
Genesis32:30 So Jacob called the place Peniel. He said, ‘I have seen God face to face, and I am still alive!’" 
Genesis32:31 The sun rose in the sky as Jacob passed through Peniel. He could not walk properly because of his hip. 
Genesis32:32 Even today, Israelites do not eat the meat of an animal where it joins to the hip. This is because God touched Jacob's hip." 
Genesis33:1 Jacob looked up. He saw Esau with 400 men coming towards him. So he divided his children into separate groups. Some went with Leah, some went with Rachel, and some went with his two female servants." 
Genesis33:2 He put his female servants and their children at the front of the group. Then came Leah and her children. But Jacob put his son Joseph with Rachel at the back of the group. 
Genesis33:3 Jacob himself went in front of these groups. He bent down to the ground to respect Esau. He did this seven times as he came nearer to his brother. 
Genesis33:4 But Esau ran to meet Jacob and he hugged him. He put his arms around Jacob's neck and he kissed him. They both wept. 
Genesis33:5 Then Esau looked up. He saw the women and children. He asked, ‘Who are these people with you?’ Jacob replied, ‘They are the children that God has given to me, your servant.’" 
Genesis33:6 Then the female servants and their children came to Esau. As they came near to him, they bent down to the ground." 
Genesis33:7 Then Leah and her children came and they bent down in front of Esau. Last of all, Joseph and Rachel came to Esau and they also bent down to the ground." 
Genesis33:8 Esau asked Jacob, ‘Why did you send all those animals in front of you?’ Jacob replied, ‘So that you would be happy to see me, my master.’" 
Genesis33:9 Then Esau said, ‘Keep your animals for yourself, my brother. I have enough animals of my own.’" 
Genesis33:10 But Jacob replied, ‘No! If you are happy to see me, please accept these animals as a gift from me. When you met me and I saw your face, it was as if I saw the face of God himself. I am happy that you have accepted me as a friend." 
Genesis33:11 So please accept the gift that I brought to you. God has been very kind to me so that I have everything that I need.’ So Esau accepted the gifts because Jacob would not agree to keep them for himself. 
Genesis33:12 Then Esau said, ‘Let us continue to go on our way. I will travel with you.’" 
Genesis33:13 But Jacob said, ‘My master, the children are not very strong. Many of the animals have young babies. If we go too far in one day, then all the animals will die." 
Genesis33:14 So you should go in front of me, my master. I will travel slowly with the animals and children, so that they are comfortable. Then, my master, I will come to you in Seir.’" 
Genesis33:15 Esau said, ‘Then let me leave some of my men to travel with you.’ But Jacob replied, ‘You do not need to do that. All I want is for you to be pleased with me.’" 
Genesis33:16 So Esau began his journey back to Seir that same day. 
Genesis33:17 But Jacob went to Succoth instead. He built a house for himself, and he made huts for his animals. That is why the place is called Succoth." 
Genesis33:18 After Jacob left Paddan Aram, he travelled safely to Canaan. He put up his tents there, near the city of Shechem." 
Genesis33:19 He bought the piece of ground where he had put up his tents. He paid 100 pieces of silver to Hamor's sons to buy the land. Hamor was the father of Shechem. 
Genesis33:20 Jacob built an altar in that place. He called the altar ‘The God of Israel is the true God’. 
Genesis34:1 Dinah was the daughter of Leah and Jacob. One day she went out to visit the young women who lived near Shechem city. 
Genesis34:2 Hamor the Hivite ruled that region. When his son, Shechem, saw Dinah, he took hold of her. Dinah could not get free and Shechem had sex with her." 
Genesis34:3 He liked Dinah very much. He loved her. He spoke kind words to her so that she would love him too. 
Genesis34:4 Shechem said to his father, Hamor, ‘I want to marry this girl. Please get her for me.’" 
Genesis34:5 Jacob heard that Shechem had had sex with his daughter. At that time, Jacob's sons were taking care of his animals in the fields. So he did not do anything until his sons came home." 
Genesis34:6 Shechem's father, Hamor, went to talk to Jacob about Dinah." 
Genesis34:7 Jacob's sons now heard what had happened and they came home from the fields. They were very angry because Shechem had done such a bad thing. When he caught Dinah and had sex with her, he had brought shame on Jacob's family. It was a wicked thing that nobody should ever do." 
Genesis34:8 Hamor said to Jacob and his sons, ‘My son Shechem loves your daughter. Please give her to him so that she can be his wife." 
Genesis34:9 There should be more marriages between your people and our people. Our men should marry your daughters and our daughters should become wives for your men. 
Genesis34:10 Then you can live among us. You can live anywhere you want to in this land. You should live here, buy and sell things. Buy land and houses here.’" 
Genesis34:11 Then Shechem said to Dinah's father and brothers, ‘I would like to make you happy. So ask me for whatever you want and I will give it to you." 
Genesis34:12 I will pay you the price that you ask for Dinah to become my wife. I will give you as much as you want. I will pay it all, because I want to have Dinah as my wife.’" 
Genesis34:13 Because of the wicked thing that Shechem had done to Dinah, Jacob's sons decided to deceive him. They deceived his father Hamor too." 
Genesis34:14 They said, ‘We cannot give our sister to a man who is not circumcised. We would be ashamed to do this." 
Genesis34:15 If you want to marry Dinah, you must do one thing. You must circumcise all your males. Then you will become like us and we will agree for you to marry Dinah." 
Genesis34:16 Then we will give you our daughters so that your men can marry them. And our men will marry your daughters. We will live among you, so that we become one people with you." 
Genesis34:17 But your men must agree to be circumcised. If not, we will take our sister with us and we will leave this place.’" 
Genesis34:18 This idea seemed good to Hamor and his son Shechem. 
Genesis34:19 Shechem was the most important person in his family. He decided to do what Jacob's sons told them. Shechem agreed to do it because he wanted very much to marry Dinah. 
Genesis34:20 So Hamor and his son Shechem went to the gate of the city. They spoke to their men there. 
Genesis34:21 They said, ‘Jacob's family are our friends. Let them live in our land Let them buy and sell things here. This land is big enough for them and for us. We can marry their daughters, and they can marry our daughters." 
Genesis34:22 But we must do the one thing that they have asked us to do. We must circumcise all our males in the same way that they do. If we do that, they will agree to live among us." 
Genesis34:23 Then their things and their animals will all become our things. So we should agree to be circumcised, as they ask. Then they will live among us.’" 
Genesis34:24 All the men who were at the city gate agreed with Hamor and Shechem. So they circumcised every male in the city. 
Genesis34:25 Three days after the men were circumcised, they still had a lot of pain. Then two of Jacob's sons attacked Shechem's men with their swords. None of the men were ready to fight. Jacob's two sons were Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers. They killed every male in the city." 
Genesis34:26 They killed Hamor and his son Shechem. Then they took Dinah from Shechem's house and they left. 
Genesis34:27 Jacob's other sons also saw that the men of the city were dead. So they took everything that they wanted from the city. They did that because it was the place where Shechem had done a wicked thing against their sister. 
Genesis34:28 They took all the sheep, goats, cows and donkeys. They took everything that was in the city and in the fields near there." 
Genesis34:29 They carried away every valuable thing for themselves. They also took all the men's wives and their children. They took everything from the houses in the city. 
Genesis34:30 When they returned to Jacob, he said to Simeon and Levi, ‘You have brought bad trouble to me! The people who live in this land, the Canaanites and the Perizzites, will hate me. I will be like a bad smell to them. We do not have many men to fight for us. If the Perizzites and Canaanites join together and they attack us, they will destroy our whole family!’" 
Genesis34:31 But Simeon and Levi replied, ‘Shechem should not have had sex with our sister as if she were a prostitute.’" 
Genesis35:1 After these things had happened, God said to Jacob, ‘Go to Bethel and live there. Build an altar to worship me. I am the God who appeared to you when you were running away from Esau.’" 
Genesis35:2 So Jacob told the people in his house and everyone who was with him, ‘Throw out all the foreign idols that you have with you. Wash your body very well and put on clean clothes." 
Genesis35:3 Then we will go to Bethel. I will build an altar there to worship God. He is the one who answered me when I was in trouble. He has been with me everywhere that I went.’ 
Genesis35:4 So the people gave to Jacob all their idols and the rings that were in their ears. Jacob buried these things under the oak tree near Shechem city. 
Genesis35:5 Then they began their journey. All the people in the towns near there were afraid of God's power. So no one attacked Jacob and his people. 
Genesis35:6 Jacob and everyone with him arrived at Luz, now called Bethel. That is in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis35:7 Jacob built an altar there. He called the place El Bethel, because that was where God appeared to him. God had appeared to him when he was running away from his brother Esau." 
Genesis35:8 Rebekah's personal servant, Deborah, died at that time. Jacob buried her under the oak tree near Bethel. That is why people call the place Allon Bacuth." 
Genesis35:9 After Jacob returned from Paddan Aram, God appeared to him again. God blessed Jacob." 
Genesis35:10 He said to Jacob, ‘Your name is Jacob, but you will no longer be called Jacob. Instead, your name will be Israel.’ So God gave the name Israel to Jacob." 
Genesis35:11 Then God said to him, ‘I am Almighty God. Give birth to many children so that your descendants become very many. They will become many nations and some of them will be kings." 
Genesis35:12 I give to you the land that I gave to Abraham and to Isaac. Yes, I will give this land to your descendants that will come after you.’" 
Genesis35:13 Then God went away from the place where he spoke to Jacob. 
Genesis35:14 Jacob set up a special stone on the ground. It showed the place where God had spoken to him. He poured a drink offering on the stone. He also poured olive oil on it. 
Genesis35:15 Jacob called the place where God spoke to him Bethel. 
Genesis35:16 Then they left Bethel and they continued to travel. When they were still a long way from Ephrath, Rachel began to give birth. She had a lot of pain." 
Genesis35:17 As her pain became worse, the woman who was helping her said, ‘Do not be afraid. You have another son!’" 
Genesis35:18 But Rachel was dying. With her last breath, she gave her son the name Ben-Oni. But Jacob, his father, called him Benjamin." 
Genesis35:19 After Rachel died, they buried her near the road that goes to Ephrath." 
Genesis35:20 Jacob set up a stone as a pillar over the place where they buried Rachel. This stone still shows the place. 
Genesis35:21 Israel then continued to travel. He put up his tents beyond Migdal Eder. 
Genesis35:22 While Israel stayed there, his son Reuben had sex with Bilhah. She was Israel's slave wife, and Israel heard what had happened. Jacob had 12 sons:" 
Genesis35:23 The sons of Leah were Jacob's firstborn, Reuben, then Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar and Zebulun." 
Genesis35:24 The sons of Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin. 
Genesis35:25 The sons of Rachel's servant, Bilhah, were Dan and Naphtali." 
Genesis35:26 The sons of Leah's servant, Zilpah, were Gad and Asher. These were Jacob's sons who were born to him in Paddan Aram." 
Genesis35:27 Jacob arrived back at his father Isaac's home. This was in Mamre, also called Kiriath Arba, or Hebron. It was the place where Abraham and Isaac had stayed." 
Genesis35:28 Isaac lived for 180 years. 
Genesis35:29 Then he died and he joined his ancestors. He was an old man who had lived a long life. His sons, Esau and Jacob, buried him." 
Genesis36:1 This is the report about Esau and his family. (Esau is also called Edom.) 
Genesis36:2 Esau took women from Canaan to be his wives. They were: Adah, the daughter of Elon the Hittite, Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah and granddaughter of Zibeon the Hivite," 
Genesis36:3 and Basemath, the daughter of Ishmael and sister of Nebaioth." 
Genesis36:4 Esau's wife Adah gave birth to a son called Eliphaz. Basemath gave birth to a son called Reuel. 
Genesis36:5 Oholibamah gave birth to three sons: Jeush, Jalam and Korah. These were Esau's sons that were born in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis36:6 Esau went to a land that was a long way from his brother Jacob. He took with him his wives, his sons and daughters and everyone in his house. He took his animals and all the things that he had got while he lived in Canaan." 
Genesis36:7 Esau and Jacob both had too many animals to live together in the same place. There was not enough land to give food to all their animals. 
Genesis36:8 So Esau, who is also called Edom, went to live in the hills of Seir." 
Genesis36:9 This is a list of Esau's descendants, the Edomites. They lived in the hill country of Seir." 
Genesis36:10 These are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz, the son of Esau's wife, Adah, and Reuel, the son of Esau's wife, Basemath." 
Genesis36:11 The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam and Kenaz." 
Genesis36:12 Esau's son Eliphaz also had a slave wife. Her name was Timna. She gave birth to a son called Amalek. Those were the grandsons of Esau's wife, Adah." 
Genesis36:13 The sons of Reuel were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. Those were grandsons of Esau's wife, Basemath." 
Genesis36:14 Esau's wife Oholibamah was the daughter of Anah and the granddaughter of Zibeon. Her sons were Jeush, Jalam and Korah." 
Genesis36:15 These were Esau's descendants who became leaders of their clans: The sons of Esau's firstborn son, Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz," 
Genesis36:16 Korah, Gatam and Amalek. These were the clan leaders who were descendants of Eliphaz in Edom. They were grandsons of Adah." 
Genesis36:17 The sons of Esau's son, Reuel, who became clan leaders in Edom were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. They were grandsons of Esau's wife Basemath." 
Genesis36:18 The sons of Esau's wife, Oholibamah, who became clan leaders were Jeush, Jalam and Korah. Oholibamah was the daughter of Anah." 
Genesis36:19 All those men were the sons of Esau and they became the leaders of their clans. 
Genesis36:20 These were the descendants of Seir the Horite. They lived in that land before Esau arrived there. They were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah," 
Genesis36:21 Dishon, Ezer and Dishan. These descendants of Seir were leaders of the Horite clans in Edom." 
Genesis36:22 Lotan's sons were Hori and Homam. Lotan's sister was Timna. 
Genesis36:23 Shobal's sons were Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam." 
Genesis36:24 Zibeon's sons were Aiah and Anah. This was the same Anah who found a place with hot water in the wilderness. At that time he was taking care of his father Zibeon's donkeys. 
Genesis36:25 Anah's children were Dishon and Oholibamah (his daughter). 
Genesis36:26 Dishon's sons were Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran and Keran." 
Genesis36:27 Ezer's sons were Bilhan, Zaavan and Akan." 
Genesis36:28 Dishan's sons were Uz and Aran. 
Genesis36:29 These were the leaders of the Horite clans in the land of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah," 
Genesis36:30 Dishon, Ezer and Dishan." 
Genesis36:31 Before any kings ruled over the Israelites, these kings ruled in the land of Edom:" 
Genesis36:32 Beor's son Bela became king of Edom. His city was called Dinhabah. 
Genesis36:33 When Bela died, Zerah's son Jobab became the next king." 
Genesis36:33 When Bela died, Zerah's son Jobab became the next king." 
Genesis36:34 When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites became the next king." 
Genesis36:34 When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites became the next king." 
Genesis36:35 When Husham died, Bedad's son Hadad became the next king. Bedad had won the war against the Midianites in the region of Moab. Hadad's city was called Avith." 
Genesis36:36 When Hadad died, Samlah became the next king. He was from Masrekah." 
Genesis36:37 When Samlah died, Shaul became the next king. He was from Rehoboth on the Euphrates River." 
Genesis36:38 When Shaul died, Akbor's son Baal-Hanan became the next king." 
Genesis36:39 When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad became the next king. His city was called Pau. Hadad's wife was Mehetabel. She was the daughter of Matred, and the granddaughter of Me-Zahab." 
Genesis36:40 These descendants of Esau were the leaders of their clans: Timna, Alvah, Jetheth," 
Genesis36:41 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon," 
Genesis36:42 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar," 
Genesis36:43 Magdiel and Iram. These were the leaders who lived with their families in different places in the land. Each place was called the same name as the clan leader who lived there. All those people are the descendants of Esau, the ancestor of the Edomites." 
Genesis37:1 Jacob lived in Canaan, the land where his father had lived." 
Genesis37:2 This is the report about Jacob and his family. Joseph was Jacob's son. When he was 17 years old, he was taking care of his father's sheep and goats. He did this together with his brothers. These were the sons of his father's wives, Bilhah and Zilpah. Sometimes Joseph told his father about bad things that his brothers had done." 
Genesis37:3 Jacob loved Joseph more than he loved any of his other sons. This was because Joseph was born when Jacob was old. So Jacob made a beautiful long robe for Joseph. 
Genesis37:4 Joseph's brothers knew that Jacob loved him more than he loved them. So they hated Joseph. They could not say anything kind to him. 
Genesis37:5 One night, Joseph had a dream and he told his brothers about it. When they heard about the dream, Joseph's brothers hated him even more than they did before." 
Genesis37:6 Joseph said to his brothers, ‘Listen to what happened in my dream." 
Genesis37:7 We were out in the field tying the crops together into bundles. Then my bundle stood up. Your bundles stood in a circle round my bundle. And all your bundles bent down to give honour my bundle.’ 
Genesis37:8 Joseph's brothers said to him, ‘Do you really think that you will be like a king and rule over us like that?’ They hated Joseph even more because of what he told them about his dream." 
Genesis37:9 Then Joseph had another dream and he told his brothers about it. He said, ‘Listen to me. I have had another dream. This is what happened: The sun, the moon and 11 stars bent down in front of me.’" 
Genesis37:10 Joseph also told his father about the dream. Jacob, his father, was angry with him. He said to Joseph, ‘You should not tell us about a dream like that! Do you really think that I, your mother and your brothers will come and bend down in front of you?’" 
Genesis37:11 Joseph's brothers were very jealous of him. But Jacob thought carefully about what Joseph had said. 
Genesis37:12 One day, Joseph's brothers had taken their father's sheep to eat grass in the fields. This was near Shechem city." 
Genesis37:13 Jacob said to Joseph, ‘You know that your brothers have taken my sheep to eat grass near Shechem. I want you to go to them.’ Joseph replied, ‘I am ready to go.’" 
Genesis37:14 So Jacob said to Joseph, ‘Go and see if your brothers are well. See if the sheep have enough grass to eat. Then come back and tell me news about them.’ Then Jacob sent Joseph from Hebron Valley to go to them." 
Genesis37:15 When Joseph was walking in the fields near Shechem, a man met him. He asked Joseph, ‘What are you looking for?’" 
Genesis37:16 Joseph replied, ‘I am looking for my brothers. They have taken the sheep to eat grass. Please tell me where they are.’" 
Genesis37:17 The man said, ‘They have moved away from here. I heard them say, “We should go to Dothan.” ’ So Joseph went to look for his brothers. He found them at Dothan." 
Genesis37:18 Joseph's brothers recognized him while he was still far away. Before he reached them, they decided on a way to kill him." 
Genesis37:19 They said to each other, ‘Here comes the man who likes to dream!" 
Genesis37:20 We will kill him. We can throw him into one of the dry wells. We can tell people that a wild animal ate him. Then his dreams will never become true!’ 
Genesis37:21 When Reuben heard this, he tried to save Joseph from the other brothers. He said, ‘We should not kill him." 
Genesis37:22 Do not even get his blood on your hands. Just throw him into this dry well here in the wilderness. But do not attack him.’ Reuben said this to save Joseph, so that his brothers would not kill him. Reuben wanted to take Joseph back to his father." 
Genesis37:23 Joseph reached his brothers. He was wearing his beautiful robe, but they took it off him." 
Genesis37:24 Then they took hold of Joseph and they threw him into the empty well. It had no water in it. 
Genesis37:25 Then the brothers sat down to eat their meal. They looked up and they saw a group of Ishmaelites coming towards them. They were coming from Gilead. They had many camels that carried spices and different kinds of oils for medicine. They were taking these things to sell in Egypt. 
Genesis37:26 Judah said to his brothers, ‘We could kill our brother and then hide his body. But then we will not get anything for ourselves." 
Genesis37:27 So let us sell him to these Ishmaelites. We do not need to hurt him. We should remember that he is our brother. He is our own relative.’ Judah's brothers agreed with what he said. 
Genesis37:28 When the Midianite traders came near, Joseph's brothers pulled Joseph out of the dry well. They sold him to the Ishmaelites for 20 silver coins. The Ishmaelites took Joseph with them to Egypt." 
Genesis37:29 Later, Reuben returned to the dry well. He saw that Joseph was not there. He tore his clothes because he was very upset." 
Genesis37:30 Reuben went back to his brothers. He said to them, ‘The boy is not in the well! What can I do now?’" 
Genesis37:31 Then the brothers killed a goat. They took its blood and they put the blood all over Joseph's robe. 
Genesis37:32 They took the robe back to their father and they told him, ‘We found this robe. Look at it. Tell us if it is your son's robe.’" 
Genesis37:33 Jacob saw that it was Joseph's robe. He said, ‘It is my son's robe! A wild animal must have eaten him! The animal has torn Joseph's body into pieces.’" 
Genesis37:34 Jacob was so upset that he tore his own clothes. He put on clothes made from sackcloth to show how sad he was. He wept for many days because of what had happened to his son. 
Genesis37:35 All Jacob's sons and daughters came to comfort him. But Jacob was very sad, so they could not make him happy. Jacob said, ‘I will be sad until the day that I die, because my son is dead.’ Jacob wept because he thought that Joseph was dead." 
Genesis37:36 While this was happening, the Midianites took Joseph into Egypt. They sold him to Potiphar, one of Pharaoh's officers. Potiphar had authority over all of Pharaoh's guards." 
Genesis38:1 At that time, Judah left his brothers. He went to stay with a man from the town of Adullam. His name was Hirah." 
Genesis38:2 While he was there, Judah met the daughter of a Canaanite man called Shua. Judah married her and he had sex with her." 
Genesis38:3 She became pregnant, and she gave birth to a son. Judah gave him the name ‘Er’." 
Genesis38:4 His wife became pregnant again, and she gave birth to another son. She gave him the name ‘Onan’." 
Genesis38:5 Later, she gave birth to another son. She gave him the name ‘Shelah’. She gave birth to Shelah in Kezib." 
Genesis38:6 Judah found a wife for his oldest son, Er. Her name was Tamar." 
Genesis38:7 But the Lord saw that Er, Judah's firstborn son, was very wicked. So the Lord caused him to die." 
Genesis38:8 Then Judah said to Onan, ‘You should marry your dead brother's wife and have sex with her. You are her dead husband's brother. You must have a son who will become your dead brother's descendant.’" 
Genesis38:9 But Onan did not want Tamar to give birth to his child. He knew that the child would not belong to him. So when he had sex with his brother's wife Tamar, he made his semen go onto the ground. Onan did this so that Tamar would not give birth to a child for his dead brother." 
Genesis38:10 What Onan did was bad, and the Lord was not pleased with him. So the Lord caused Onan to die too." 
Genesis38:11 Then Judah said to his son's widow, Tamar, ‘Go back to your father's house and live there as a widow. Stay there until my son Shelah is old enough to marry you.’ Judah thought, ‘I do not want Shelah to die in the way that his brothers died.’ So Tamar went to live in her father's house." 
Genesis38:12 After a long time, Judah's wife, the daughter of Shua, died. When Judah had stopped being sad because of her death, he left his home to travel. He went with his friend, Hirah the Adullamite, to a place called Timnah. He went to see the men who were cutting the wool from his sheep." 
Genesis38:13 Someone told Tamar, ‘Your husband's father is going to Timnah to get the wool from his sheep.’" 
Genesis38:14 Tamar knew that Judah's son Shelah had now become a man. But Judah had not yet let Shelah marry her. So Tamar took off her widow's clothes and she put on other clothes. She covered her head with a veil. She did not want anyone to recognize her. Then she sat at the gate of Enaim. Enaim is a town on the road that goes to Timnah. 
Genesis38:15 Judah saw her as she sat there. He thought that she was a prostitute, because she had covered her face." 
Genesis38:16 He did not know that she was his son's widow. He went to her at the side of the road. He said, ‘Let me have sex with you.’ Tamar asked him, ‘If I have sex with you, what will you give me?’" 
Genesis38:17 Judah replied, ‘I will take a young goat from my animals and I will give it to you.’ Tamar said, ‘Please give me something now to show me that you will really send the goat to me.’" 
Genesis38:18 Judah asked her, ‘What should I give you?’ Tamar replied, ‘Give me your special ring and the string that holds it. And give me the stick that is in your hand.’ So Judah gave them to her. He had sex with her. As a result, she became pregnant." 
Genesis38:19 After this, Tamar left there and she took off her veil. She put her widow's clothes on again." 
Genesis38:20 Judah sent his friend Hirah, the Adullamite, to take a young goat back to where the woman had been. Judah wanted to get his special things back from the woman. But Hirah could not find the woman." 
Genesis38:21 He asked some men who lived there, ‘Where is the temple prostitute who sat by the road at Enaim?’ But the men said, ‘There has not been any prostitute here.’" 
Genesis38:22 So Hirah went back to Judah, with the goat. He told him, ‘I did not find her. The men who lived there said, “There has not been any temple prostitute here.” ’" 
Genesis38:23 So Judah said, ‘Let her keep the things that I gave to her. People will laugh at me if you go back there again. I sent this young goat for her, as I promised, but you could not find her.’" 
Genesis38:24 Three months later, someone told Judah, ‘Your dead son's wife, Tamar, has become a prostitute and now she is pregnant.’ Judah said, ‘Take her out of the town and burn her to death!’" 
Genesis38:25 So they took Tamar away to kill her. But she sent a message to her dead husband's father. She said, ‘The man that these things belong to had sex with me. That is why I am pregnant. Look at these things carefully. Do you know who the ring, its string, and the stick belong to?’" 
Genesis38:26 Judah saw that the things belonged to him. He said, ‘She is more honest than I am. She has done this because I would not give her to my son, Shelah, as his wife.’ Judah did not have sex with Tamar again." 
Genesis38:27 The time came for Tamar to give birth, and there were twins!" 
Genesis38:28 While she was giving birth, one baby put out his hand. The woman who was helping Tamar tied a red string to that baby's arm. She said, ‘This baby came out first.’" 
Genesis38:29 But then the baby moved his hand back inside and his brother came out first. The woman said, ‘You have opened a way for yourself to come out!’ So they gave him the name ‘Perez’." 
Genesis38:30 Then his brother came out, with the red string on his arm. They gave him the name ‘Zerah’." 
Genesis39:1 The Ishmaelites took Joseph to Egypt and they sold him there as a slave. Potiphar bought Joseph from the Ishmaelites. He was one of Pharaoh's officers. He had authority over all the guards. 
Genesis39:2 The Lord was with Joseph, so that good things happened to him. Joseph lived in the house of Potiphar, his Egyptian master." 
Genesis39:3 Potiphar saw that the Lord was with Joseph. He saw that the Lord helped Joseph to do good work. 
Genesis39:4 So Joseph pleased Potiphar. Potiphar gave Joseph authority as his special servant. Joseph took care of everything that belonged to Potiphar. 
Genesis39:5 From the time that Potiphar gave Joseph authority over everything in his house, the Lord blessed the people of Potiphar's house. The Lord also blessed Potiphar's animals and his crops because of Joseph." 
Genesis39:6 So Potiphar told Joseph to take care of everything that belonged to him. Potiphar did not worry about anything in his house. The only thing that he thought about was the food that he ate. Joseph was a strong and handsome man. 
Genesis39:7 After some time had passed, Potiphar's wife saw that Joseph was handsome. She said, ‘Come to bed with me!’" 
Genesis39:8 But Joseph refused to do that. He said, ‘My master does not need to think about anything in the house. I take care of everything that belongs to him." 
Genesis39:9 No one has more authority in this house than I do. My master keeps nothing from me, except you. That is because you are his wife. I could not do such an evil thing. It would be a sin against God.’" 
Genesis39:10 Potiphar's wife continued to speak to Joseph every day. But he would not agree to go to bed with her. He would not even go near her. 
Genesis39:11 One day Joseph went into the house to do his work. None of the other servants were there in the house. 
Genesis39:12 Potiphar's wife suddenly took hold of Joseph's coat. She said, ‘Come to bed with me!’ Joseph left his coat in her hand and he ran out of the house." 
Genesis39:13 Potiphar's wife saw that Joseph had left his coat in her hand. She saw that he had run out of the house. 
Genesis39:14 So she called her servants to come. She said to them, ‘Look at this! The Hebrew man that Potiphar brought to work here does not respect us! He came in here and he tried to have sex with me. But I screamed loudly." 
Genesis39:15 When he heard me scream like that, he ran out of the house. But he left his coat here with me.’" 
Genesis39:16 Potiphar's wife kept the coat beside her until Joseph's master, Potiphar, came home." 
Genesis39:17 Then she told him this story: ‘The Hebrew slave that you brought to us tried to insult me. He wanted to sleep with me. 
Genesis39:18 But I screamed loudly for help. So he left his coat with me and he ran out of the house.’ 
Genesis39:19 Joseph's master heard the story that his wife told him. She said, ‘This is what your slave did to me.’ When Potiphar heard that, he was very angry." 
Genesis39:20 He took hold of Joseph, and he put him in prison. It was the place where the king put his own prisoners." 
Genesis39:21 While Joseph was there in the prison, the Lord was still with him. He was kind to Joseph. He caused the leader of the prison guards to like Joseph." 
Genesis39:22 So this man gave Joseph authority over all the other prisoners. Joseph decided about everything that they did in the prison. 
Genesis39:23 The leader of the guards did not worry about anything that Joseph had authority over. He saw that the Lord was with Joseph. Whatever Joseph did, the Lord helped him to do it well." 
Genesis40:1 Some time later, two of the king's officers made him angry. One of them was the king's cupbearer. The other was the king's baker." 
Genesis40:2 Pharaoh was very angry with his two officers, both the cupbearer and the baker." 
Genesis40:3 Pharaoh put them in the same prison that Joseph was in. It was in the house of the captain of the king's guards. 
Genesis40:4 They were in the prison for a long time. The captain of the guards made Joseph their servant, to help them." 
Genesis40:5 One night, both of the king's officers had a dream. Each dream had its own meaning." 
Genesis40:6 When Joseph came to them the next morning, he saw that they were upset." 
Genesis40:7 So Joseph asked the two officers, ‘Why are you so sad today?’" 
Genesis40:8 They replied, ‘We both had dreams last night, but there is nobody to tell us what they mean.’ Joseph said, ‘Only God can tell you the meaning of dreams. Tell your dreams to me.’" 
Genesis40:9 So the king's cupbearer told Joseph his dream. He said, ‘In my dream I saw a vine in front of me." 
Genesis40:10 There were three branches on it. New leaves appeared on the branches and then there were flowers. After that, there were grapes which became ripe." 
Genesis40:11 Pharaoh's cup was in my hand. I took the grapes and I squeezed them. Then I put the juice into the cup and I gave the cup to Pharaoh.’ 
Genesis40:12 Joseph said, ‘This is what your dream means. The three branches tell us about three days." 
Genesis40:13 In three days, Pharaoh will lift up your head and he will make you his officer again. You will put Pharaoh's cup into his hand, as you did before." 
Genesis40:14 But when these good things happen to you, remember to be kind to me. Tell Pharaoh about me so that I will get out of this prison." 
Genesis40:15 Men took hold of me in the land of the Hebrews and they brought me here. Even here, I have not done anything wrong. I should not be in this prison.’" 
Genesis40:16 The king's baker heard what Joseph had said to the cupbearer. He realized that the meaning of the cupbearer's dream was good. So he said to Joseph, ‘This was my dream. I had three baskets of bread on my head." 
Genesis40:17 The top basket contained many different kinds of bread for Pharaoh. But birds were eating them out of the basket on my head.’ 
Genesis40:18 Joseph said, ‘This is what your dream means. The three baskets tell us about three days." 
Genesis40:19 In three days, Pharaoh will lift off your head. He will hang you on a tree. Then birds will eat the meat off your body.’" 
Genesis40:20 Three days later, it was Pharaoh's birthday. He gave a feast for all his officers. He lifted up the head of the cupbearer and he lifted off the head of the baker! He brought them both out of the prison so that all his officers could see." 
Genesis40:21 Pharaoh chose the cupbearer to be his own cupbearer again. So the cupbearer put Pharaoh's cup into his hand again, as he did before." 
Genesis40:22 But Pharaoh hanged the baker to kill him. So everything happened in the way that Joseph had said it would happen. 
Genesis40:23 But the cupbearer did not think about Joseph. He completely forgot about him. 
Genesis41:1 Two years later, Pharaoh had a dream. In his dream, he was standing by the Nile River." 
Genesis41:2 Seven cows walked up out of the river. They were fat and good to look at. They ate the grass at the side of the river. 
Genesis41:3 After those seven fat cows, Pharaoh saw seven other cows that also came up out of the river. These cows were thin and not good to look at. They stood next to the other cows at the side of the river." 
Genesis41:4 The thin cows ate the seven fat cows! Then Pharaoh woke up. 
Genesis41:5 Pharaoh went to sleep again and he had another dream. He saw seven groups of grain that were growing on one branch. The grains were fat and good to look at. 
Genesis41:6 Then he saw seven other groups of grain that grew after the first seven groups. These grains were thin, because the hot east wind had burned them." 
Genesis41:7 Then the groups of thin grains ate the seven groups of grains that were good and fat. Then Pharaoh woke up. He realized that it was a dream. 
Genesis41:8 In the morning, Pharaoh had trouble in his mind. So he told all the magicians and the wise men in Egypt to come to him. Pharaoh told them about his dreams. But no one could tell Pharaoh what his dreams meant." 
Genesis41:9 Then the king's cupbearer said to Pharaoh, ‘Now I remember that I have made a mistake!" 
Genesis41:10 Two years ago, you were angry with me and with your baker. You put us in prison, in the house of the guards' captain." 
Genesis41:11 One night we both had a dream. Each of our dreams had its own meaning. 
Genesis41:12 A young Hebrew man was there with us. He was a servant of the guards' captain. We told the Hebrew man about our dreams. Then he told each of us the meaning of our dream. 
Genesis41:13 And everything happened as he had told us! You gave me my job as cupbearer again. But you hanged the baker to kill him.’ 
Genesis41:14 So Pharaoh called Joseph to come to him. They quickly brought Joseph from the prison. Joseph washed himself and he cut his beard from his face. He put on clean clothes. Then he went and he stood in front of Pharaoh. 
Genesis41:15 Pharaoh said to Joseph, ‘I had a dream, and no one can tell me what it means. But people have told me about you. They say that you can tell the meaning of dreams.’" 
Genesis41:16 Joseph replied to Pharaoh, ‘I cannot do this. But God will give you an answer that will help you.’" 
Genesis41:17 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, ‘In my dream, I stood at the side of the Nile River." 
Genesis41:18 I saw seven cows that came up out of the river. They were fat, and good to look at. They were eating the grass at the side of the river." 
Genesis41:19 After them, seven more cows came up out of the river. They were thin and they were not good to look at. I have never seen cows that look as bad as these in Egypt before." 
Genesis41:20 The thin cows ate the seven fat cows that came out of the river first. 
Genesis41:21 When they had eaten them, you would not have known it! They still seemed to be as thin as they were before they ate the fat cows. Then I woke up." 
Genesis41:22 In another dream, I also saw seven groups of grain that grew on one branch. The grains were fat and good." 
Genesis41:23 After those, seven other groups of grain grew. Those grains were thin because the hot east wind had burned them." 
Genesis41:24 The thin grains ate the seven groups of fat grains. I told those dreams to my wise men and magicians. But none of them could tell me the meaning of my dreams.’ 
Genesis41:25 Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, ‘Your dreams both have the same meaning. God has shown you what he will soon do." 
Genesis41:26 The seven fat cows tell us about seven years. And the seven groups of fat grains also mean seven years. Both dreams have the same meaning. 
Genesis41:27 The seven thin cows that came out of the river mean seven years. And the seven groups of thin grains mean seven years. Both of these tell us about seven years of famine. 
Genesis41:28 This is what your dreams mean. As I said, God has shown Pharaoh what he will do." 
Genesis41:29 There will be plenty of food for seven years all over the land of Egypt. 
Genesis41:30 But then seven years of famine will follow. People will forget about the seven years when they had plenty of food. The famine will destroy the land of Egypt. 
Genesis41:31 No one will remember the seven good years, because the famine will be so bad." 
Genesis41:32 God gave you two dreams with the same meaning because these things will certainly happen. God will cause them to happen very soon. 
Genesis41:33 Now Pharaoh should look for a clever man. He should look for a man who knows what is right and wrong. Tell that man to rule over the land of Egypt. 
Genesis41:34 This is what you should do: Choose some officers. Give them authority to store food during the good years when there is plenty. They must take a fifth part of all the food that grows everywhere in Egypt. They must store this extra food during the good years that will come soon. Give these officers authority to store and to take care of the food in the cities. 
Genesis41:35  
Genesis41:36 Then you will be ready for the seven years of famine that will happen everywhere in Egypt. The people in Egypt will have enough food, and the famine will not destroy the land.’" 
Genesis41:37 Pharaoh and his officers thought that Joseph's idea was good. 
Genesis41:38 Pharaoh said to his officers, ‘This man has the spirit of God in him. We will never find anyone else like him.’" 
Genesis41:39 So Pharaoh said to Joseph, ‘God himself has helped you to know all these things. So there is no one who is as wise and clever as you are." 
Genesis41:40 I will give you authority in my palace. All my people will do whatever you tell them to do. Only I will be greater than you, because I am the king.’" 
Genesis41:41 Pharaoh also said to Joseph, ‘I give you authority in the whole land of Egypt.’" 
Genesis41:42 Then Pharaoh took his royal ring from his finger and he put it on Joseph's finger. He dressed Joseph in beautiful clothes made of linen. He put a gold chain around Joseph's neck. 
Genesis41:43 Pharaoh gave Joseph a chariot to ride in. It showed that Joseph was Pharaoh's most important officer. Only Pharaoh had more authority. As Joseph travelled, his servants shouted to the people, ‘Bend your knees to respect Joseph!’ In this way Pharaoh gave Joseph authority over everything in the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:44 Pharaoh said to Joseph, ‘I rule Egypt as Pharaoh. But nobody who lives anywhere in Egypt will do anything, unless you tell them to.’" 
Genesis41:45 Pharaoh gave Joseph the name Zaphenath-Paneah. He also gave Asenath to Joseph to be his wife. She was the daughter of Potiphera, who was a priest in Heliopolis. Everyone knew that Joseph had authority in all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:46 Joseph was 30 years old when he began to serve Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Joseph then left Pharaoh's palace and he travelled everywhere in Egypt." 
Genesis41:47 During the seven good years, lots of food grew in the land." 
Genesis41:48 Joseph took all the extra food that grew in the seven good years. He stored it in Egypt's cities, near the fields where it had grown." 
Genesis41:49 In this way, Joseph stored a lot of food. The food grains were as many as the sand by the sea! Joseph stopped counting how much food he had stored because there was too much food to measure." 
Genesis41:50 Before the years of famine arrived, Joseph became the father of two sons. Asenath, daughter of Potiphera, a priest in Heliopolis, was their mother." 
Genesis41:51 Joseph called his firstborn son Manasseh. Joseph said, ‘God has made me forget all the trouble that my father's family has given to me.’" 
Genesis41:52 Joseph called his second son Ephraim. Joseph said, ‘God has given children to me in the land where I have suffered.’" 
Genesis41:53 The seven good years with plenty of food in Egypt came to an end. 
Genesis41:54 The seven years of famine began, in the same way that Joseph had said would happen. There was a famine in all the other countries too. But in Egypt, the people still had food to eat." 
Genesis41:55 When the Egyptian people became hungry, they cried out to Pharaoh for food. When they did that, Pharaoh told all the Egyptians, ‘Go to Joseph. Do whatever he tells you to do.’" 
Genesis41:56 The famine became very bad everywhere. Joseph opened all the places where he had stored the food. He sold grain to the Egyptians because there was a bad famine in all of Egypt. 
Genesis41:57 People from all the other countries came to Egypt to buy food from Joseph. They came because the famine was very bad everywhere in the world. 
Genesis42:1 Jacob heard news that there was food in Egypt. So he said to his sons, ‘There is no food here, so get up and do something!" 
Genesis42:2 I have heard that there is food in Egypt. Go there and buy some for us. Then we may continue to live and not die.’ 
Genesis42:3 So ten of Joseph's brothers went to Egypt to buy food. 
Genesis42:4 But Jacob did not send his youngest son, Benjamin, with them. Jacob was afraid that something bad might happen to Benjamin." 
Genesis42:5 Jacob's sons went to Egypt, together with other people who went there to buy food. They all went to Egypt because there was a bad famine in Canaan." 
Genesis42:6 Joseph had authority to rule Egypt at that time. He was the man who sold food to all the Egyptians. When Joseph's brothers arrived there, they bent down in front of him, with their faces to the ground." 
Genesis42:7 As soon as Joseph saw the men, he knew that they were his brothers. But he spoke to them as if they were strangers. He did not speak to them in a kind way. He asked them, ‘Where do you come from?’ They replied, ‘We come from the land of Canaan. We have come here to buy food.’" 
Genesis42:8 Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him." 
Genesis42:9 Then Joseph remembered the dreams that he had dreamed about his brothers. He said to them, ‘You have come here secretly to see how your people can attack our land.’" 
Genesis42:10 They replied ‘No, my lord, that is not true! We are your servants and we have come to buy food." 
Genesis42:11 We are all the sons of one man. We are honest men. We are not your enemies.’ 
Genesis42:12 But Joseph said, ‘No! You have come here to see if some places in our country are weak. You want to attack us.’" 
Genesis42:13 Joseph's brothers replied, ‘We belong to a family of 12 brothers. We are the sons of one man who lives in Canaan. Our youngest brother stayed at home with our father. One other brother is not with us any more.’" 
Genesis42:14 Joseph said to them, ‘It is as I told you. You are our enemies!" 
Genesis42:15 I will see if what you say is true. This is what I will do. I promise by the life of Pharaoh himself, I will not let you leave this place. You must first bring your youngest brother here. I will only let you go after that." 
Genesis42:16 One of you must go to bring your brother here. I will keep you others in prison. In that way I will know if what you said is true. If your youngest brother does not come, then I will certainly know that you are our enemies!’" 
Genesis42:17 Then Joseph put his brothers in prison for three days. 
Genesis42:18 On the third day Joseph said to them, ‘Do what I say. Then you will stay alive, because I respect God." 
Genesis42:19 If you are honest men, you must leave one of your brothers to stay here in prison. The other brothers can go back to Canaan. You may take food back with you, because your families are hungry." 
Genesis42:20 But you must return to Egypt and you must bring your youngest brother to me. Then I will know that what you have said is true. Then you will not die.’ Joseph's brothers agreed to do what he told them. 
Genesis42:21 The brothers said to each other, ‘This punishment is happening to us because of what we did to Joseph. We saw how upset he was when he asked us not to kill him. But we refused to be kind to him. That is why we have all this trouble.’" 
Genesis42:22 Reuben said, ‘I told you not to do anything bad to the boy. But you would not agree! We killed him and now we must receive the punishment.’" 
Genesis42:23 While they said all this, they did not know that Joseph could understand them. Joseph had been speaking in the Egyptian language and someone else told the brothers his message in Hebrew." 
Genesis42:24 Joseph went away from his brothers and he began to weep. But then he returned to speak to them again. While they watched, Joseph told his men to tie Simeon with ropes and take him away." 
Genesis42:25 Then Joseph told his servants to fill the brothers' bags with food. He also told them to put each man's money back into his bag. He told them to give the brothers enough food for their journey. The servants did what Joseph told them. 
Genesis42:26 The brothers put the bags of food on to their donkeys. Then they left. 
Genesis42:27 The brothers travelled until they reached a place to sleep that night. One of them opened his bag to get food for his donkey. Then he saw his money inside his bag, at the top." 
Genesis42:28 He said to his brothers, ‘They have given back my money! Here it is in my bag!’ All the brothers were upset and frightened. They asked each other, ‘What has God done to us?’" 
Genesis42:29 After some time they arrived back in Canaan. They went to their father, Jacob. They told him everything that had happened to them." 
Genesis42:30 They said, ‘We met the man who is lord over Egypt. He spoke strong words to us. He thought that we were enemies who had come to find a way to attack Egypt." 
Genesis42:31 But we said to him, “We are honest men. We are not your enemies." 
Genesis42:32 We belong to a family of 12 brothers, all the sons of one father. One brother is not with us any more, and the youngest brother is at home with our father in Canaan.”" 
Genesis42:33 Then the man who is lord over Egypt said, “I want to know if you are honest men. This is what I will do. You must leave one of your brothers here, with me. Then take food for your hungry families and leave Egypt." 
Genesis42:34 But then you must bring your youngest brother here to me. If you do that, I will know that you are honest men. I will know that you are not our enemies. Then I will give your brother back to you. You will be able to stay in Egypt and you can buy and sell things here.” ’" 
Genesis42:35 The brothers started to take the food out of their bags. And in their bags, they found each man's money! When the brothers and their father saw the money, they were frightened." 
Genesis42:36 Their father Jacob said to them, ‘You are taking my children away from me! Joseph is not here any more. Simeon also is not here. Now you want to take Benjamin away from me. I am the one who is suffering for everything!’" 
Genesis42:37 Then Reuben said to his father, Jacob, ‘I will bring Benjamin back to you. If I do not, then you can kill both of my sons. Trust me to take care of Benjamin. I will bring him back.’" 
Genesis42:38 But Jacob said, ‘My son will not go with you. His brother is already dead. Benjamin is the only one left. Something bad may happen to him on your journey. I am already an old man. If I lose Benjamin, I would be so sad that I would die.’" 
Genesis43:1 The famine was still bad in Canaan. 
Genesis43:2 Jacob's family ate all the food that they had brought from Egypt. So Jacob said to his sons, ‘Go back to Egypt and buy some more food for us.’" 
Genesis43:3 But Judah said, ‘The man warned us many times, “Unless your brother is with you, I will not let you see me again.”" 
Genesis43:4 So you must send Benjamin with us. Then we will go and buy food for you. 
Genesis43:5 But if you do not send Benjamin, we will not go. The man clearly said to us, “Unless your brother is with you, you will not see me again.” ’" 
Genesis43:6 Jacob said to them, ‘You have brought great trouble to me! You should not have told the man that you had another brother.’" 
Genesis43:7 The brothers replied, ‘The man asked us many questions about our family. He asked us, “Is your father still alive? Do you have another brother?” We only answered his questions. We did not know that he would say, “Bring your brother here.” ’" 
Genesis43:8 Then Judah said to his father Jacob, ‘Agree to send the boy with me. We will go to Egypt immediately. Then all our family can continue to live. We will not die because of the famine." 
Genesis43:9 I promise you that I will keep Benjamin safe. I myself will take care of him and I will bring him back to you. If I do not bring him back home, then you should say that I am guilty. I will be guilty for all of my life." 
Genesis43:10 We must go now! We have already talked for too long. By now, we could have gone to Egypt and returned twice!’" 
Genesis43:11 Then their father Jacob said to them, ‘If you must take Benjamin, do what I tell you. Put some of the best things from our land in your bags. Take them to the man as a gift. Take some oil, some honey and some spices. Also take some myrrh, and some nuts." 
Genesis43:12 Also take twice the amount of money with you. You must give back the money that they put back into your bags last time. It may have been a mistake. 
Genesis43:13 Take your brother Benjamin too. Go back to the man now. 
Genesis43:14 I pray that God Almighty will help you. I pray that God will cause the man to be kind to you. Then he will let your older brother go free. He and Benjamin will return here with you. As for me, if I must lose my sons, then I will lose them. There is nothing that I can do to stop it.’" 
Genesis43:15 So the brothers took the gifts, and they took twice as much money with them. They took Benjamin and they hurried to Egypt. When they arrived there, they went to meet Joseph." 
Genesis43:16 Joseph saw that Benjamin was with them. So he said to his servant who took care of his house, ‘Take these men to my house. Kill an animal and prepare it for a meal. These men will eat with me at noon.’" 
Genesis43:17 The servant did as Joseph told him. He took the men to Joseph's house. 
Genesis43:18 The brothers were frightened when the servant took them to Joseph's house. They thought, ‘He has brought us here because of the money that we found in our bags last time. Someone put it there before we returned home. Now he wants to punish us. He will take us to be his slaves. He will take our donkeys too.’" 
Genesis43:19 So the brothers went to Joseph's servant. They spoke to him at the door of Joseph's house before they went in. 
Genesis43:20 They said, ‘Please sir. The first time we came here, we came to buy food." 
Genesis43:21 But on our journey back, we stopped at a place to sleep for the night. When we opened our bags, each of us found our money there. It was the same amount of money that each of us had taken to buy food in Egypt. The money was in the top of our bags. Now we have brought the money back here." 
Genesis43:22 We have also brought more money so that we can buy more food. We do not know who put the money back into our bags.’ 
Genesis43:23 The servant replied, ‘Do not worry. Everything is all right. Your God, the God of your father, put the valuable silver coins there. I received your money.’ Then the servant brought Simeon out to his brothers." 
Genesis43:24 The servant took the men into Joseph's house. He gave them water to wash their feet. He also gave food to their donkeys. 
Genesis43:25 The brothers prepared their gifts to give to Joseph when he would arrive at noon. The servant had told them that they would eat a meal there. 
Genesis43:26 When Joseph arrived home, the brothers gave him the gifts that they had brought with them. They bent down low to the ground in front of him." 
Genesis43:27 Joseph asked them if they were well. Then he said, ‘You told me last time about your old father. How is he? Is he still alive?’" 
Genesis43:28 The brothers replied, ‘Your servant, our father, is still alive. And he is well.’ They bent down to the ground again, to give honour to Joseph." 
Genesis43:29 Then Joseph saw his brother Benjamin, his own mother's son. Joseph asked, ‘Is this your youngest brother? Is he the one that you told me about?’ Joseph said to Benjamin, ‘I pray that God will bless you, my son.’" 
Genesis43:30 Joseph loved Benjamin very much. He quickly went out of the room because he wanted to weep. He went into his own room and he wept there. 
Genesis43:31 After that, he washed his face. He returned to his brothers. He controlled himself and he said, ‘Prepare the food for them to eat.’" 
Genesis43:32 The servants gave food to Joseph at his own table. The brothers sat together at a different table. And the Egyptians who ate there also sat together. The Egyptians could not eat a meal with Hebrews, because they were too proud to do that." 
Genesis43:33 The brothers sat in a place where Joseph could see them. The servants told them where to sit, by the age of each one. The oldest brother sat at one end, all along to the youngest brother at the other end. The brothers were very surprised to see this." 
Genesis43:34 Then the servants took food from Joseph's table and they gave it to the brothers. Benjamin received the biggest amount of food. It was five times more than any of his brothers. The brothers also drank wine with Joseph and they were all very happy together. 
Genesis44:1 Joseph told the servant who took care of his house, ‘Fill the men's bags. Give them as much food as their animals can carry. Put each man's money back in the top of his bag." 
Genesis44:2 Then take my silver cup and put it in the top of the youngest man's bag. Put it with the money that he brought to pay for his food.’ The servant did what Joseph had told him to do. 
Genesis44:3 When morning came, the men started their journey with their donkeys." 
Genesis44:4 They had travelled only a short way from the city. Then Joseph said to his servant, ‘Go now and follow those men. When you find them, say to them, “My master was kind to you. So why have you done this bad thing against us?" 
Genesis44:5 You have taken my master's own special cup. It is the cup that he drinks from. He also uses it to find out about future things. You have done a very bad thing!” ’ 
Genesis44:6 So Joseph's servant followed the men. When he reached them, he told them Joseph's message." 
Genesis44:7 But the brothers said to him, ‘Sir, why do you say these things? We are your servants. We would not do anything like that!" 
Genesis44:8 When we found the money in our bags last time, we brought it back to you from Canaan. So we would never take valuable silver or gold things from your master's house." 
Genesis44:9 If any one of us has this silver cup, he must die. We others will become your slaves, sir.’" 
Genesis44:10 The servant said, ‘What you say is fair. Whoever has the cup will become my slave. The rest of you will go free.’" 
Genesis44:11 Each of the brothers quickly put his bag on the ground and opened it. 
Genesis44:12 Then the servant began to look in the bags. He began with the oldest brother's bag and he finished with the youngest brother's bag. He found the cup in Benjamin's bag! 
Genesis44:13 When this happened, all the brothers were very upset and they tore their clothes. Then they put their bags back on their donkeys. They returned to the city." 
Genesis44:14 Joseph was still in his house when Judah and his brothers arrived. They threw themselves on the ground in front of Joseph. 
Genesis44:15 Joseph said, ‘Why have you done this bad thing? You should have known that a man like me can use magic to find out what people do.’" 
Genesis44:16 Judah said, ‘We do not know what to say to you, my lord. We cannot say that we have done nothing wrong. God has shown that we are guilty. Now we are your slaves. We are all your slaves, as well as the one who had your cup in his bag.’" 
Genesis44:17 But Joseph said, ‘I would not do anything like that! Only the man who took the cup will be my slave. The rest of you can return to your father. You may go as my friends.’" 
Genesis44:18 Then Judah went near to Joseph. He said, ‘Please, my lord. Let me speak to you. You have all of Pharaoh's authority, but please do not be angry with me, your servant." 
Genesis44:19 You asked us, “Do you have a father or another brother?”" 
Genesis44:20 And we replied, “We have a father who is very old. He has a young son who was born when our father was already old. That son's brother is dead. He is the only one of his mother's sons who still lives. His father loves him.”" 
Genesis44:21 Then you said, “Bring your youngest brother to me so that I can see him.”" 
Genesis44:22 And we said, “The boy cannot leave his father. If he leaves him, his father will die.”" 
Genesis44:23 But you said to us, “Your youngest brother must come with you. If he does not come, I will not let you see me again.”" 
Genesis44:24 We returned to our father and we told him what you said. 
Genesis44:25 After some time, our father said, “Go back to Egypt and buy some more food for us.”" 
Genesis44:26 But we said, “We cannot go back there. We can only go if our youngest brother goes with us. If he is not with us, we will not be able to see the man again.”" 
Genesis44:27 Then my father said to us, “My wife gave birth to two sons." 
Genesis44:28 One of them went away and he never returned. So I said, ‘A wild animal must have eaten him.’ I have not seen him since that happened." 
Genesis44:29 If you take my youngest son away from me too, something bad may happen to him. I am already an old man. If I lose Benjamin, I would be so sad that I would die.” ’" 
Genesis44:30 Then Judah said, ‘So, my lord, I could not go back to my father without his youngest son. My father would not continue to live if he loses this boy." 
Genesis44:31 If my father sees that his son is not with us, he will die. He is very old. We will cause him to be so sad that he will die." 
Genesis44:32 I promised my father that I would take care of the boy. I said, “I will bring the boy back. If I do not, then you can say that I am guilty. I will be guilty for all of my life.”" 
Genesis44:33 Please sir, let me stay here as your slave, instead of the boy. Let the boy return home with his brothers." 
Genesis44:34 I cannot go back to my father if the boy is not with me. I never want to see how upset my father would be.’ 
Genesis45:1 After Judah had said this, Joseph could not control himself. He did not want to cry in front of all his servants. So he shouted, ‘Make everyone go away from me!’ So there was no one still there with Joseph, except his brothers. Then he told his brothers who he was." 
Genesis45:2 Joseph wept loudly, so that the Egyptians heard him. All the people in Pharaoh's house knew about it." 
Genesis45:3 Joseph said to his brothers, ‘I am Joseph! Is my father still alive?’ But his brothers could not answer him. They could see that Joseph was there in front of them and they were afraid!" 
Genesis45:4 Then Joseph said to them, ‘Come near to me.’ So they did that. He said, ‘I am your brother Joseph. I am the one that you sold to become a slave in Egypt!" 
Genesis45:5 But do not be upset. Do not be angry with yourselves because you sold me like that. No! It was God who sent me here! He sent me to come here before you. He did that so that I could save people's lives. 
Genesis45:6 There has been a famine for two years already. No food will grow for another five years. 
Genesis45:7 But God sent me to come here before you. Because he did that, your family will stay alive. God will do a great thing to save you and your descendants." 
Genesis45:8 So you did not really send me here. It was God who did that! He made me Pharaoh's most important officer, as if I am his father. I take care of everything in Pharaoh's palace. I have authority to rule over all of Egypt." 
Genesis45:9 Now hurry back to my father. Say to him, “This is what your son Joseph says: God has made me lord over all Egypt. Come to live here with me. Come now." 
Genesis45:10 You can live in the region called Goshen. You, your children and your grandchildren can live there. You can bring your sheep, goats and cows, together with everything that you have. In Goshen you will all be near me." 
Genesis45:11 I will take care of you there. I will give you food to eat, because there will be five more years of famine. If you do not come here, you and all your family and servants will become very poor.” " 
Genesis45:12 As I speak to you now, you can all see clearly that I am Joseph. My brother Benjamin also knows that." 
Genesis45:13 Tell my father about the authority that I have here in Egypt. Tell him about everything that you have seen here. Then bring my father here quickly.’ 
Genesis45:14 Then Joseph hugged his brother Benjamin and he wept. Benjamin hugged Joseph and he also wept. 
Genesis45:15 Joseph continued to weep as he kissed each of his other brothers too. After this, his brothers began to talk to Joseph." 
Genesis45:16 Pharaoh then heard that Joseph's brothers had arrived in Egypt. Pharaoh and his officers were happy to know that. 
Genesis45:17 Pharaoh said to Joseph, ‘Tell your brothers to do this. Say to them, “Put food on your donkeys and return home to Canaan." 
Genesis45:18 Then bring your father and your families to come here to me. I will give you the best land in Egypt to live on. You will have all the best things that the land gives to you.” 
Genesis45:19 You must also tell your brothers, “Take some carts from here in Egypt. Your wives and children can ride in them to come back here. Bring your father and come quickly." 
Genesis45:20 Do not worry. You do not have to bring all your things from your own country. The best things of Egypt will belong to you.” ’ 
Genesis45:21 So Jacob's sons did what Pharaoh said. Joseph gave them carts as Pharaoh had told him to do. He also gave them food for their journey. 
Genesis45:22 Joseph gave new clothes to each of his brothers. But he gave 300 silver coins and five sets of clothes to Benjamin. 
Genesis45:23 Joseph also sent these things to his father: 10 donkeys that carried the best things from Egypt, 10 female donkeys that carried food and grain, and other food for his father's journey." 
Genesis45:24 Then Joseph sent his brothers to start their journey. As they left, he said to them, ‘Do not argue with each other on your way home!’" 
Genesis45:25 The brothers left Egypt and they returned home to their father Jacob in Canaan. 
Genesis45:26 They told him, ‘Joseph is still alive! He rules over all of Egypt!’ Jacob was so surprised that he did not believe what they said." 
Genesis45:27 So Jacob's sons told him everything that Joseph had said to them. Jacob saw the carts that Joseph had sent to carry him back to Egypt. Then Jacob felt stronger again. 
Genesis45:28 He said, ‘Now I believe you! My son Joseph is still alive! I will go and see him before I die.’" 
Genesis46:1 So Jacob left Canaan. He took everything that belonged to him. When he came to Beersheba, he offered sacrifices to God, the God of his father Isaac." 
Genesis46:2 During the night, God spoke to Israel in a dream. He said, ‘Jacob! Jacob!’ Jacob replied, ‘Yes, I am here.’" 
Genesis46:3 God said, ‘I am God. I am the God that your father worshipped. Do not be afraid to go to Egypt. Your descendants will be very many so that you become a great nation there." 
Genesis46:4 I will go with you to Egypt. I will also bring you back again. Joseph will be with you when you die.’ 
Genesis46:5 Then Jacob left Beersheba to go to Egypt. His sons took their father as well as their wives and children. They rode in the carts that Pharaoh had sent to carry them. 
Genesis46:6 They also took all their animals and everything that they had got in Canaan. In that way, Jacob and all his family went to Egypt." 
Genesis46:7 He took his sons and his grandsons, his daughters and granddaughters. He took all his family with him to Egypt." 
Genesis46:8 These are the names of the descendants of Israel who went to Egypt, (that is, the sons of Jacob): Reuben was the firstborn son of Jacob." 
Genesis46:9 The sons of Reuben: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron and Carmi." 
Genesis46:10 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jakin, Zohar and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman." 
Genesis46:11 The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
Genesis46:12 The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez and Zerah. Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul." 
Genesis46:13 The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puah, Jashub and Shimron." 
Genesis46:14 The sons of Zebulun: Sered, Elon and Jahleel." 
Genesis46:15 These were the sons that Leah gave birth to in Paddan Aram, and their children. Leah also gave birth to a daughter, Dinah. These sons and daughters of Jacob were 33 in all." 
Genesis46:16 The sons of Gad: Zephon, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi and Areli." 
Genesis46:17 The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi and Beriah. Their sister was Serah. The sons of Beriah were Heber and Malkiel." 
Genesis46:18 These were the sons that Zilpah gave birth to for Jacob, and their children. Laban had given Zilpah as a servant to his daughter Leah. There were 16 children in all." 
Genesis46:19 The sons of Jacob's wife Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin. 
Genesis46:20 Manasseh and Ephraim were born to Joseph in Egypt. Their mother was Asenath, daughter of Potiphera, priest of On." 
Genesis46:21 The sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim and Ard." 
Genesis46:22 These were the sons that Rachel gave birth to for Jacob, and their children. There were 14 in all." 
Genesis46:23 The son of Dan: Hushim. 
Genesis46:24 The sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer and Shillem." 
Genesis46:25 These were the sons that Bilhah gave birth to, and their children. Bilhah was Rachel's servant that Laban gave to her. Bilhah gave birth to these sons for Jacob. There were seven in all." 
Genesis46:26 Jacob's descendants who went with him to Egypt were 66. That does not include his son's wives. 
Genesis46:27 Joseph had two sons that were born in Egypt. So there were 70 people of Jacob's family who were there in Egypt. 
Genesis46:28 Jacob sent Judah to go to Joseph before they all arrived. He wanted Joseph to show them the way to Goshen. Finally they all arrived in Goshen. 
Genesis46:29 Joseph prepared his chariot and he went to Goshen to meet Jacob, his father. When they met, Joseph hugged his father and he wept for a long time." 
Genesis46:30 Jacob said to Joseph, ‘Now I am ready to die. I have seen for myself that you are still alive.’" 
Genesis46:31 Then Joseph spoke to his brothers and to his father's people. He said, ‘I will go and say to Pharaoh, “My brothers and all my father's people have arrived here from Canaan." 
Genesis46:32 The men are shepherds. They take care of their animals. They have brought with them their sheep, goats, cows and everything else that they have.”" 
Genesis46:33 Pharaoh will call you to meet him. He will ask you, “What is your job?”" 
Genesis46:34 Then you should answer, “We have always taken care of cows and sheep since we were young men. Our ancestors have always done this work.” Egyptians refuse to live near people who take care of sheep. So Pharaoh will let you stay in the region of Goshen.’" 
Genesis47:1 Joseph went to Pharaoh. He told him, ‘My father and brothers have arrived from Canaan. They have come with their animals and everything that belongs to them. They are now in Goshen.’" 
Genesis47:2 Joseph chose five of his brothers to go with him to meet Pharaoh. 
Genesis47:3 Pharaoh asked the brothers, ‘What is your job?’ The brothers replied, ‘We are shepherds, sir. We take care of animals, as our ancestors did.’" 
Genesis47:4 They also said to Pharaoh, ‘We have come to stay here for a short time because there is a bad famine in Canaan. Our animals do not have any grass to eat there. Please sir, let us stay in Goshen.’" 
Genesis47:5 Pharaoh said to Joseph, ‘Your father and your brothers have now come to you." 
Genesis47:6 The whole land of Egypt is here for them. Your father and your brothers should stay in the best part of the land. They may live in Goshen. Choose the best shepherds from among them to take care of my own animals.’ 
Genesis47:7 Then Joseph brought his father Jacob to meet Pharaoh. Jacob blessed Pharaoh. 
Genesis47:8 Then Pharaoh asked Jacob, ‘How old are you?’" 
Genesis47:9 Jacob replied, ‘I have lived for 130 years. My years have been few, and they have been difficult. I have not lived for as long as my ancestors lived.’" 
Genesis47:10 Then Jacob blessed Pharaoh again and he left. 
Genesis47:11 So Joseph helped his father and his brothers to make their home in Egypt. He gave them their own land in the best region of Egypt. This was in the region that is now called Rameses. Joseph did for his family what Pharaoh had told him to do. 
Genesis47:12 Joseph also sent food to his father, his brothers and all his father's people. He gave them enough food for themselves and all their children." 
Genesis47:13 But because the famine was bad, no food grew in all of Egypt. As a result, the people of Egypt and Canaan became hungry and weak." 
Genesis47:14 Joseph received money from the people when he sold grain to them. He took all the money to Pharaoh's palace. 
Genesis47:15 Soon the people of Egypt and Canaan did not have any more money. All the Egyptians went to Joseph and they said, ‘Give us food to eat. If not, we will die! We do not have any money.’" 
Genesis47:16 Joseph said to the people, ‘If you have no money, bring me your animals. I will give you food if you pay me with your animals instead of money.’" 
Genesis47:17 So the people brought their animals to Joseph. They brought horses, sheep, goats, cows and donkeys. Joseph gave food to the people in return for their animals. In that way, the people received enough food to eat that year." 
Genesis47:18 When that year finished, the people came to Joseph again. They said to him, ‘Sir, you know that we do not have any money. Our animals now belong to you. We have nothing left to give to you. We only have our land and our own bodies." 
Genesis47:19 Do not let us die here and now! Do not destroy our land! If you give us food, we will pay you with ourselves and with our land. We will become Pharaoh's slaves. Our land will become Pharaoh's land. Give us grain to eat and seed to plant. Then we will not die. Our fields will not be empty.’" 
Genesis47:20 Joseph bought all the land in Egypt for Pharaoh. Because the famine was very bad, all the Egyptians sold their fields to buy food. So all the land now belonged to Pharaoh." 
Genesis47:21 Joseph made all the people become slaves, wherever they lived in Egypt." 
Genesis47:22 But Joseph did not buy the land which belonged to the priests. Pharaoh himself provided food for the priests. So the priests did not have to sell their land. 
Genesis47:23 Joseph said to the people, ‘Now I have bought you and your land for Pharaoh. So I will give you some seed to plant in your fields." 
Genesis47:24 But when the plants are ready to eat, you must give one fifth part to Pharaoh. You may keep the other four parts of your crops. You may keep some of it for seed to plant again and you may eat what remains. It will be food for you, for your people and for your children.’" 
Genesis47:25 The people said, ‘You have saved our lives! Because you have been kind to us, we agree to become Pharaoh's slaves.’" 
Genesis47:26 So Joseph made a law for everybody in Egypt to obey. The law said that one fifth of all food that people grow belongs to Pharaoh. Only the priests' land did not become Pharaoh's land. This law still has authority today. 
Genesis47:27 The Israelites stayed in Egypt, in the region of Goshen. They had their own land there. They gave birth to many children so that they became very many people." 
Genesis47:28 Jacob lived in Egypt for 17 years. His whole life was 147 years. 
Genesis47:29 It was nearly time for him to die. So he called his son Joseph to come to him. Jacob said to him, ‘If you agree, make a serious promise to me. Put your hand between my legs to show that I can trust you. Promise that you will be kind to me and that you will do as I ask. When I die, do not bury me here in Egypt." 
Genesis47:30 Carry my body out of Egypt. Bury me in the grave of my ancestors.’ Joseph said, ‘I will do as you say.’" 
Genesis47:31 Jacob said, ‘Promise me that you will do this.’ So Joseph made a serious promise to Jacob. After that, Jacob rested on his bed and he thanked God." 
Genesis48:1 After some time, someone told Joseph, ‘Your father is ill.’ So Joseph went to see Jacob and he took his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, with him." 
Genesis48:2 Someone told Jacob, ‘Your son Joseph has come to see you.’ Jacob's body became stronger and he sat up on the bed." 
Genesis48:3 Jacob said to Joseph, ‘God Almighty appeared to me at Luz, in Canaan. God blessed me there." 
Genesis48:4 He said to me, “I will give you many children, so that your descendants are many. In that way, you will become the ancestor of many nations. I will give this land to you so that it belongs to your descendants for ever.” " 
Genesis48:5 You have two sons that were born to you in Egypt before I came here. They will become my own sons. Ephraim and Manasseh will be my sons, just as Reuben and Simeon are my sons." 
Genesis48:6 Any children born to you after them will be your own children. They will receive part of the land that belongs to their brothers, Ephraim and Manasseh." 
Genesis48:7 As for me, I was very sad when your mother Rachel died on our journey from Paddan. She died near Ephrath. So I buried her there, next to the road to Ephrath (that is now called Bethlehem).’" 
Genesis48:8 Joseph brought Ephraim and Manasseh to his father, Jacob. Jacob asked him, ‘Who are these boys?’" 
Genesis48:9 Joseph replied, ‘They are the sons that God has given to me here in Egypt.’ Then Jacob said, ‘Bring them near to me so that I can bless them.’" 
Genesis48:10 Jacob's eyes had become weak because he was very old. He was almost blind. So Joseph brought his sons near to his father. His father kissed them and he hugged them. 
Genesis48:11 Jacob said to Joseph, ‘I never thought that I would see you again. But now God has let me see your children too.’" 
Genesis48:12 Then Joseph removed his sons from Jacob's knees. He bent down low, with his face towards the ground." 
Genesis48:13 He took his two sons near to Jacob. With his right hand, he put Ephraim beside Jacob's left hand. With his left hand, he put Manasseh beside Jacob's right hand." 
Genesis48:14 Jacob then put out his right hand. But he put it on Ephraim's head, even though Ephraim was the younger son. Jacob crossed his arms so that he put his left hand on Manasseh's head. Manasseh was Joseph's firstborn son." 
Genesis48:15 Then Jacob blessed Joseph. He said, ‘May God bless these two boys. He is the God that my ancestors, Abraham and Isaac, served. Like a shepherd takes care of his sheep, God has taken care of me all my life, until this day." 
Genesis48:16 He is the angel who has kept me safe. I pray that he will bless these boys. I pray that, because of them, people will remember my name, and the names of my ancestors, Abraham and Isaac. I pray that they will have many descendants who live all over the earth.’" 
Genesis48:17 Joseph saw that his father had put his right hand on Ephraim's head. This made Joseph upset. So he took hold of his father's right hand. He moved it from Ephraim's head onto Manasseh's head. 
Genesis48:18 Joseph said to Jacob, ‘No, my father. This boy is the firstborn son. Put your right hand on his head.’" 
Genesis48:19 But Jacob refused to change his hands. He said, ‘I know, my son. I know what I am doing. Manasseh will also have many descendants who become a great nation. But his younger brother, Ephraim, will become even greater. Ephraim's descendants will become many great nations.’" 
Genesis48:20 So Jacob blessed both of Joseph's sons that day. He said, ‘In your name Israel's people will give this blessing: “May God be good to you, as he was to Ephraim and Manasseh.” ’ In this way, Jacob put Ephraim before Manasseh when he blessed them." 
Genesis48:21 Then Jacob said to Joseph, ‘I will die soon. But God will be with all of you. He will take you back to the land where your ancestors lived." 
Genesis48:22 I give to you, Joseph, more than I give to your brothers. I give to you the good part of the land that I took from the Amorites. I fought against them with my sword, and with my bow and arrows, to take that land for myself.’" 
Genesis49:1 Then Jacob called for all his sons. He said, ‘Come here to me. Then I can tell you what will happen to you, in the future." 
Genesis49:2 My sons, sons of Jacob, come together now and listen to your father, Israel.’" 
Genesis49:3 Jacob said, ‘Reuben you are my firstborn son. You were born first, when I was a strong young man. Of all my sons, you are the most famous and the most powerful." 
Genesis49:4 But you are as wild as the sea. You had sex on your father's bed with his slave wife. This bad thing brought me great shame. So you will not become great. 
Genesis49:5 Simeon and Levi are brothers. They use their swords as weapons to destroy people. 
Genesis49:6 I will not join them when they decide to do wicked things. I will not meet with them. They have killed people when they are angry. They have been cruel to oxen because it makes them happy. 
Genesis49:7 Their anger is so strong that God will curse them. Their anger makes them do cruel things. So God will curse them. I will cause your descendants to divide from each other. They will live everywhere in the country of Israel. 
Genesis49:8 Judah, your brothers will praise you. You will win against your enemies. Your father's sons will bend down towards the ground to give you honour." 
Genesis49:9 Judah is like a young lion who has eaten good food. He has eaten what he killed and now he rests. Nobody would want to wake him up! 
Genesis49:10 Judah's descendants will always rule as kings. They will continue to hold the stick and the sceptre that show the king's authority. They will rule until the man comes who truly has that authority. People from all nations will obey that king. 
Genesis49:11 Judah will tie his young donkey to a vine. It will be a vine that has the best grapes. He will wash his clothes in the red wine that is made from those grapes. 
Genesis49:12 His eyes will become red because he drinks so much wine. His teeth will become white because he drinks so much milk. 
Genesis49:13 Zebulun will live by the shore of the sea. His town will be a safe place for ships to stay. His land will reach as far as Sidon. 
Genesis49:14 Issachar is like a strong donkey that is lying down to rest between its two heavy bags. 
Genesis49:15 He will see that he has a good place to live, with good land. Then he will agree to work hard. He will work like a slave for other people." 
Genesis49:16 Dan will be a ruler for his people. His descendants will be equal with the other tribes of Israel. 
Genesis49:17 He will be small and dangerous, like a snake that lies beside the road. He will be like a snake that bites the legs of horses so that the riders fall off." 
Genesis49:18 Lord, I trust you to save me from trouble." 
Genesis49:19 Robbers will attack Gad, but he will fight back against them." 
Genesis49:20 Asher will have much good food. It will be good enough for kings to eat. 
Genesis49:21 Naphtali is like a deer that runs freely and gives birth to beautiful babies. 
Genesis49:22 Joseph is like a vine that has lots of fruit. It grows near a well and its branches reach over a wall. 
Genesis49:23 His enemies will be angry with him. They will attack him with arrows. 
Genesis49:24 But he will hold his own bow strongly. He will shoot his arrows well. The Mighty One of Jacob will give Joseph strength. God, who is Israel's Shepherd and Rock, will help him." 
Genesis49:25 The Almighty God, the God of your father, will help you and he will bless you. He will give you rain that comes from the sky above. He will give you springs of water from below the ground. He will cause you to have many descendants. That is how God will bless you." 
Genesis49:26 The blessings are great that I, your father, give to you! They are greater than any good things that the old mountains or hills can give to you. They are special blessings for you, Joseph, because you are the leader of your brothers." 
Genesis49:27 Benjamin is like a hungry wolf. He kills an animal and he eats it in the morning. In the evening, he gives what remains to his people.’" 
Genesis49:28 All these are ancestors of the 12 tribes of Israel. This is what their father said to them when he blessed them. He spoke to each of his sons the words that were right for them and for their descendants. 
Genesis49:29 Then Jacob said to his 12 sons, ‘I will soon die. You must take my dead body back to Canaan. Bury me there with my ancestors. Bury me in the cave in the field that belonged to Ephron the Hittite." 
Genesis49:30 The cave is at Machpelah, near Mamre in Canaan. Abraham bought this cave from Ephron as a place to bury his family." 
Genesis49:31 That is where they buried Abraham and his wife Sarah. They also buried Isaac and his wife Rebekah there. I buried Leah there too. 
Genesis49:32 Abraham had bought the cave and the field from the Hittites.’ 
Genesis49:33 Jacob finished telling his sons what they should do. Then he lay down on his bed again. He breathed for the last time and he died there. 
Genesis50:1 Joseph bent down near his father's face. He wept over him and he kissed him. 
Genesis50:2 Then Joseph told some of his servants to take Jacob's body. They were men who knew how to put oil on the body so that it would not spoil. Joseph's servants did what he told them to do. 
Genesis50:3 The servants took care of the body for 40 days, which is the usual time. The Egyptians wept for 70 days because of Jacob's death." 
Genesis50:4 The time for everyone to weep came to an end. Joseph said to Pharaoh's officers, ‘If you agree, speak to Pharaoh for me. Tell him this:" 
Genesis50:5 My father made me promise him something. He said, “I will soon die. Bury me in the grave that I prepared for myself in Canaan.” So please let me go and bury my father there. Then I will return.’" 
Genesis50:6 Pharaoh said, ‘Go and bury your father's body in the way that you promised him.’" 
Genesis50:7 So Joseph went to Canaan to bury his father. All Pharaoh's officers went with him. The important people who lived in Pharaoh's palace, as well as the important Egyptian officers, all went with Joseph." 
Genesis50:8 Everyone in Joseph's family also went with him. His brothers and their families went, but they did not take their young children or their animals. They left those in Goshen." 
Genesis50:9 A very large group of soldiers went with them. Some of them rode in chariots and some rode on horses. 
Genesis50:10 They came to Atad's threshing floor, near the Jordan River. They stayed there for seven days to weep for the death of Jacob. They were very sad." 
Genesis50:11 The Canaanite people who lived near there saw how sad Joseph and his people were. So they gave Atad's threshing floor a different name. They called it ‘Abel Mizraim’. They said, ‘The Egyptians are showing that they are very sad because an important person has died.’" 
Genesis50:12 So Jacob's sons did what he had told them to do. 
Genesis50:13 They carried his body to Canaan. They buried him there in the cave, in the field at Machpelah, near Mamre. That is the cave that Abraham had bought from Ephron the Hittite. He had bought it as a grave for him and for his family." 
Genesis50:14 When Joseph had buried his father, he returned to Egypt together with his brothers. Everyone who had gone with him to bury his father also returned to Egypt." 
Genesis50:15 Now Jacob was dead and Joseph's brothers became frightened. They said to each other, ‘We did a bad thing to Joseph. Now he will be angry and he will punish us for what we did.’" 
Genesis50:16 So they sent a message to Joseph. They said, ‘Your father spoke to us before he died." 
Genesis50:17 He told us to say to you, “Please forgive your brothers for the very bad things that they did against you. They did a very cruel thing to you.” So please forgive our sin. We are servants of your father's God.’ When Joseph received their message, he wept." 
Genesis50:18 His brothers came to him. They bent down low to the ground in front of Joseph. They said to him, ‘We are your slaves.’" 
Genesis50:19 But Joseph said to them, ‘Do not be afraid of me. It is God who has the authority to punish people. I am not God!" 
Genesis50:20 You decided to do a bad thing to me. But God caused a good thing to happen because of that. God brought me here to save the lives of many people. You can see now that it has really happened! 
Genesis50:21 So do not be afraid. I will continue to take care of you. You and your children will receive what you need.’ In this way Joseph comforted them and he spoke kind words to them. 
Genesis50:22 Joseph lived in Egypt, together with his father's family. He lived for 110 years." 
Genesis50:23 He was still alive to see Ephraim's children and grandchildren. He also saw Makir's children. Makir was Manasseh's son. Joseph accepted Makir's children as his own children. 
Genesis50:24 Then Joseph said to his brothers, ‘I will soon die. But God will come to you and he will help you. He will take you out of Egypt. He will take you back to the land that he promised to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.’" 
Genesis50:25 He also said, ‘God will help you to leave Egypt. When that happens, you must carry my bones away from here.’ Joseph made the Israelites promise that they would do this." 
Genesis50:26 So Joseph died when he was 110 years old. They put special oil on his body so that it would not spoil. Then they put his body in a box there in Egypt. 
Exodus1:1 Here are the names of the Israelites who went to Egypt with Jacob. Each one went there with his family. 
Exodus1:2 Jacob's sons were Reuben, Simeon, Levi and Judah," 
Exodus1:3 Issachar, Zebulun and Benjamin," 
Exodus1:4 Dan, Naphtali, Gad and Asher." 
Exodus1:5 Jacob himself had 70 descendants. His other son, Joseph, was already in Egypt." 
Exodus1:6 After some time, Joseph died. Joseph's brothers and all his generation also died." 
Exodus1:7 But the Israelites had many children, so they grew into a very large family. They became very powerful. They were everywhere in the whole country." 
Exodus1:8 Later, a new king began to rule in Egypt. He did not know anything about Joseph." 
Exodus1:9 He said to his people, ‘Look! The Israelites have become too many for us. They are more powerful than we are." 
Exodus1:10 We must find a clever way to stop them. If we do nothing, their families will become even bigger. Then, if there is a war, they will join our enemies and they will fight against us. That will give the Israelites a chance to leave our country.’" 
Exodus1:11 So the Egyptians made the Israelites work as their slaves. The Egyptian masters made the Israelites do very hard work. They had to build cities for the king, Pharaoh, where he could store food for his people. The names of the cities were Pithom and Rameses." 
Exodus1:12 The Egyptians were very cruel to the Israelites. They made them do more and more hard work. But the Israelites still became more in number. They had many children and they lived in every part of the country. Because of this, the Egyptians began to be afraid of them." 
Exodus1:13 So the Egyptians made the Israelites work without any rest. 
Exodus1:14 The Israelites became very upset because of all the hard work. They had to build houses with bricks and mortar. They also did many different kinds of work in the fields. The Egyptians made the Israelites do all this difficult work. 
Exodus1:15 There were two Israelite women who helped the other women when they were giving birth. These two women were called Shiphrah and Puah. The king of Egypt said to them," 
Exodus1:16 ‘When you help the Israelite women at the birth of their children, this is what you must do. If they give birth to a son, kill him. But if the child is a daughter, you may let her live.’" 
Exodus1:17 But the two women respected God. So they did not do what the king of Egypt had told them. They obeyed God and they let the boys live. 
Exodus1:18 Then the king of Egypt called the two women to come to him. He asked them, ‘Why have you done this? Why have you let the boys live?’" 
Exodus1:19 The two women said to Pharaoh, ‘Israelite women are not like Egyptian women. Israelite women are very strong. They give birth to their babies very quickly, before we arrive at the house.’" 
Exodus1:20 Because the two women respected God, he was kind to them. The Israelite people continued to grow in number. They became very strong." 
Exodus1:21 Because the two women obeyed God, he gave them families of their own." 
Exodus1:22 Then Pharaoh spoke to all the Egyptian people. He said, ‘When an Israelite boy is born, you must throw him in the Nile River. But you can let the baby girls live.’" 
Exodus2:1 At this time, there was an Israelite man who belonged to the family of Levi. He married a woman who was also a descendant of Levi." 
Exodus2:2 The woman became pregnant and she gave birth to a son. She saw that he was a beautiful boy. So she hid him for three months. 
Exodus2:3 Then she could not continue to hide him. So she took a basket that was made from river grass. She painted the basket with tar, to keep the water out of it. Then she put her baby in the basket. She put the basket among the reeds at the edge of the river." 
Exodus2:4 The baby's sister stood not very far away. She wanted to see what would happen to the baby. 
Exodus2:5 Soon, Pharaoh's daughter came to wash herself in the river. Her servant girls were walking near the edge of the river. Pharaoh's daughter saw the basket among the river grasses. So she sent one of her servant girls to bring it to her." 
Exodus2:6 When she opened the basket, she saw the baby boy. He was crying. She was sorry for him and she said, ‘This is one of the Israelite children.’" 
Exodus2:7 Then the baby's sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, ‘Do you want me to bring one of the Israelite mothers? She can take care of this baby and she can feed him for you.’" 
Exodus2:8 Pharaoh's daughter said, ‘Yes, please do that.’ So the girl went and brought the baby's own mother." 
Exodus2:9 Pharaoh's daughter said to the baby's mother, ‘Please take this baby to your house. You can take care of him for me. I will pay you to do this.’ So the woman took the baby home and she took care of him." 
Exodus2:10 When the baby was older, his mother took him to Pharaoh's daughter. He now became her son. She gave him the name ‘Moses’. She said, ‘I will call him Moses because I pulled him out of the water.’" 
Exodus2:11 Many years later, Moses grew to become a man. At that time, he went out to visit his own people, the Israelites. He saw that they had to do very hard work without any rest. He saw an Egyptian man. He was attacking an Israelite man. The Egyptian was hitting someone from Moses' own country!" 
Exodus2:12 Moses looked in every direction. He saw that nobody was near. So Moses killed the Egyptian. He buried his body in the sand to hide it. 
Exodus2:13 The next day, Moses went out again to visit his people. He saw that two Israelite men were fighting each other. Moses said to the guilty man, ‘Why are you attacking your friend, who is an Israelite like you?’" 
Exodus2:14 The man answered, ‘You do not have authority over us! You cannot judge us! Do you want to kill me, as you killed that Egyptian man?’ Then Moses was afraid. He said to himself, ‘People must know what I have done!’" 
Exodus2:15 Pharaoh heard about what had happened. He wanted to kill Moses. So Moses ran away from Pharaoh. He went from Egypt to the country called Midian and he lived there. One day, Moses sat down by a well which was near where he lived." 
Exodus2:16 There was a priest in Midian who had seven daughters. Those seven young women came to get water out of the well. They used the water to fill the places where the animals drink. Then their father's sheep and goats could drink there. 
Exodus2:17 But some shepherds then arrived at the well. They made the girls go away. So Moses stood up and he went to help the young women. He gave water to their animals. 
Exodus2:18 Then the girls went back home to Reuel, their father. He asked them, ‘Why have you come home so soon today?’" 
Exodus2:19 They answered, ‘An Egyptian man saved us from the shepherds. He even took water from the well and he gave it to our animals.’" 
Exodus2:20 Reuel said to his daughters, ‘So where is the man? You should not have left him there. Ask him to come here so that he can eat a meal with us.’" 
Exodus2:21 Moses agreed to stay with Reuel. Reuel gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses as his wife. 
Exodus2:22 Later, Zipporah gave birth to a son for Moses. Moses gave the boy the name ‘Gershom’. He called him that because he said, ‘I am living as a stranger in a foreign country.’" 
Exodus2:23 After a long time had passed, the king of Egypt died. The Israelites were still slaves of the Egyptians. That made them very sad and they complained loudly. God heard them when they cried for help." 
Exodus2:24 He thought about his promise to take care of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and their descendants." 
Exodus2:25 God saw what was happening to the Israelites. He knew that he must help them. 
Exodus3:1 Moses worked as a shepherd and he took care of Jethro's sheep. Jethro was his wife's father and he was the priest of Midian. Moses led the sheep to the far side of the desert. He came to Sinai, the mountain of God." 
Exodus3:2 The angel of the appeared to Moses there. The angel looked like a fire that was burning in the middle of a bush. Moses looked at the bush. He saw that it was on fire, but the fire still did not destroy it." 
Exodus3:3 Moses said to himself, ‘I will go nearer and see this strange thing. I want to see why the bush is not completely burned.’" 
Exodus3:4 The Lord saw that Moses came near to look at the bush. God spoke to Moses from inside the bush. He said, ‘Moses! Moses!’ Moses answered, ‘Here I am.’" 
Exodus3:5 God said to Moses, ‘Do not come nearer! Remove your shoes from your feet. The ground that you are standing on is holy.’" 
Exodus3:6 Then God said, ‘I am the God that your father worshipped. I am also the God of your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.’ Then Moses covered his face. He was afraid to look at God." 
Exodus3:7 The Lord said, ‘I have certainly seen the troubles of my people in Egypt. I have heard them when they cry out for help because of their cruel masters. I know that they are very sad." 
Exodus3:8 So now I have come down to save them from the power of the Egyptians. I will bring them out from Egypt to go to another land. That will be a good land and a big land. The land will give them plenty of good food and drink, enough for everyone. These are the nations who live there now: the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites." 
Exodus3:9 Yes, I have heard that my Israelite people are crying for help. I have seen that the Egyptians do bad things to hurt them." 
Exodus3:10 So now you must go! I will send you to speak to Pharaoh. You will lead my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt.’" 
Exodus3:11 But Moses said to God, ‘I am not an important person. I cannot go to Pharaoh. I cannot lead the Israelites out of Egypt!’" 
Exodus3:12 God said to Moses, ‘Be sure of this: I will be with you. After you have led the people out of Egypt you will all worship me here, on this mountain. That will show you that I myself have sent you to do this.’" 
Exodus3:13 Then Moses said to God, ‘If I go to the Israelites, they may not believe me. I will say, “The God that your ancestors worshipped has sent me to you.” But then they will ask me, “What is his name?” Then what will I say to them?’" 
Exodus3:14 God said to Moses, ‘I am who I am! Say this to the Israelite people: “I AM has sent me to you.” ’" 
Exodus3:15 God also said to Moses, ‘Say this to the Israelite people: “It is the Lord God who has sent me to you. He is the God that your ancestors worshipped. He is the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.” That is my name for all time. All generations of my people will remember me by that name." 
Exodus3:16 Go and call the leaders of Israel to meet together. Say to them, “The Lord God has appeared to me. He is the God that your ancestors worshipped. He is the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. He said to me, ‘I have been carefully watching my people in Egypt. I have seen the bad things that the Egyptians have done to you." 
Exodus3:17 I promise that I will bring you out of your troubles in Egypt. I will lead you into the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites. It is a land that will give you plenty of good food and drink, enough for everyone.’ ”" 
Exodus3:18 When you say that, the leaders of the Israelites will listen to you. Then you must go with them to the king of Egypt. Say to him, “The Lord God has met with us. He is the God that we, the Israelite people, worship. So let us go on a journey into the desert. That will be a journey of three days. We must offer sacrifices to the Lord our God there.”" 
Exodus3:19 But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go. Only some great power will make him agree. 
Exodus3:20 So I will show him my power! I will do powerful miracles to punish the Egyptians. When they see that, Pharaoh will let you go free." 
Exodus3:21 More than that, I will cause the Egyptians to think well of you, my own people. So when you leave Egypt, they will give you many gifts." 
Exodus3:22 All the Israelite women will ask their Egyptian friends to give them things. They will ask the women who live near them and those who live with them in their houses. They will ask for silver things, gold things and beautiful clothes. Then you will take those things and you will dress your sons and your daughters with them. In that way, you will take many valuable things away from the Egyptians.’" 
Exodus4:1 Then Moses replied, ‘Perhaps the leaders of Israel will not believe me. Perhaps they will not listen to my message. Perhaps they will say, “The Lord did not really appear to you.” ’" 
Exodus4:2 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘What is that thing in your hand?’ Moses answered, ‘It is a stick.’" 
Exodus4:3 The Lord said, ‘Throw it down on the ground.’ So Moses threw it on the ground. Then the stick became a snake! Moses ran away from the snake." 
Exodus4:4 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Take hold of the snake's tail with your hand.’ So Moses caught the snake with his hand. Then it became a stick in his hand again." 
Exodus4:5 The Lord said, ‘Do this in front of them. Then they will believe you. They will believe that I, the Lord God, have appeared to you. I am the God that their ancestors worshipped. I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.’" 
Exodus4:6 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Put your hand inside your robe.’ So Moses did this. When he took his hand out again, the skin had become white, like snow. It was the bad disease called leprosy." 
Exodus4:7 Then God said, ‘Put your hand back inside your robe again.’ So Moses did that. And when he took his hand out, it was well again, like the rest of his skin!" 
Exodus4:8 God said, ‘The leaders may not believe you. They may not think that the miracle with the stick shows anything. But they may believe you when you do the second miracle." 
Exodus4:9 But they may still not listen to your message. If they will not even believe those two miracles, do this: Take some water from the Nile River and pour it on the dry ground. The water that you take from the river will become blood on the ground.’" 
Exodus4:10 Then Moses said to the Lord, ‘My Lord, I cannot speak well. I speak slowly and I speak with difficulty. I never could speak well. And even now, when you have spoken to me, I still cannot speak well.’" 
Exodus4:11 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Who has made human mouths? Who makes a person that cannot speak? Who makes a person that cannot hear? Who makes a person who can see, or who cannot see? It is I, the Lord God!" 
Exodus4:12 Now go! I will help you to speak well. I will teach you what you must say.’ 
Exodus4:13 But Moses said, ‘My Lord, please send some other person. Do not send me!’" 
Exodus4:14 Then the Lord became angry with Moses. He said, ‘Aaron, the Levite, is your brother. I know that he can speak very well. Look! He is coming to meet you now. When he sees you, he will be very happy." 
Exodus4:15 So this is what you must do. You must speak to him. You must tell him what to say. I will help both of you to speak. And I will teach both of you what you must do. 
Exodus4:16 Aaron will speak to the people on your behalf. He will be like your mouth, to speak your message. And you will be like God to him. You will tell him what to say." 
Exodus4:17 Take this stick with you and hold it in your hand. You will use it to do the miracles to show that I have sent you.’ 
Exodus4:18 Then Moses went back to Jethro, his wife's father. Moses said to him, ‘Please let me return to my family in Egypt. I must see if they are still alive.’ So Jethro said to Moses, ‘Go in peace.’" 
Exodus4:19 The Lord had said to Moses while he was still in Midian, ‘Go back to Egypt. All the men who tried to kill you are now dead.’" 
Exodus4:20 So Moses put his wife and his sons on a donkey and they started on the journey back to Egypt. And Moses carried the stick of God in his hand. 
Exodus4:21 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘When you return to Egypt, you must do all the miracles that I gave you the power to do. Do them in front of Pharaoh. But I will make Pharaoh angry and cruel. Because of this, he will not let the people go." 
Exodus4:22 Then you must speak to Pharaoh. You must say, “The Lord says, Israel is my first son." 
Exodus4:23 I have already said to you, ‘Let my son go so that he can worship me.’ But if you refuse to let him go, I will kill your firstborn son.” ’" 
Exodus4:24 On the way to Egypt, there was a place where people could rest on their journey. The Lord met Moses there and he wanted to kill Moses." 
Exodus4:25 But Zipporah took a sharp stone and she cut off her son's foreskin with the stone. She touched Moses' feet with the foreskin. She said, ‘You are a husband of blood to me.’" 
Exodus4:26 So God did not do anything bad to Moses. Zipporah had said to Moses, ‘You are a husband of blood’ because of this circumcision." 
Exodus4:27 The Lord said to Aaron, ‘Go into the desert to meet Moses.’ So Aaron went. He met Moses at the mountain of God and he kissed him." 
Exodus4:28 Then Moses told Aaron all that the Lord had told him to say. He also told Aaron about all the special miracles. God had commanded Moses to do these miracles as signs to the Israelites and to Pharaoh. 
Exodus4:29 Then Moses and Aaron went to Egypt. They brought together all the leaders of the Israelites. 
Exodus4:30 Aaron told them all the things that the Lord had said to Moses. Then Moses did the miracles in front of the people. 
Exodus4:31 And the people believed Aaron and Moses. They had heard that the Lord had come to his people. God had seen their difficult life and he was sorry for them. They bent their heads down and they worshipped God. 
Exodus5:1 After this, Moses and Aaron went to visit Pharaoh. They said to him, ‘Listen to what the Lord says. He is the God of Israel. He says, “Let my people go. Let them prepare a feast in the desert to worship me.” ’" 
Exodus5:2 But Pharaoh said, ‘The Lord is not my god. I do not need to obey him. I do not have to let the Israelites go. I do not know the Lord. I will not let the Israelites go.’" 
Exodus5:3 Moses and Aaron said, ‘The God of the Israelites has met us. Please let us go. We must go on a journey of three days into the desert. There we must give gifts to the Lord our God. If we do not do this, God may punish us. We may become very ill, or people may attack us in war.’" 
Exodus5:4 But Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, said, ‘Moses and Aaron, you must not take the people away from their work! Go back to your jobs!’" 
Exodus5:5 Pharaoh said, ‘Look, there are now many of your people who live in my country. But you are taking them away from their work.’" 
Exodus5:6 On that day, Pharaoh gave a command to the masters of the slaves, and to the leaders of the work." 
Exodus5:7 This was the command: ‘Do not give the people any more straw to make bricks. Now they must go and find their own straw. 
Exodus5:8 But they must still make the same number of bricks as they did before. Do not let them make fewer bricks. These people are lazy. That is why they are complaining. They say, “We want to go and offer sacrifices to our God.”" 
Exodus5:9 Make the work more difficult for them to do. They will have to do very hard work. They will be too busy to listen to the lies of their leaders.’ 
Exodus5:10 So the slaves' masters and the leaders of the work went to the Israelite people. They said to them, ‘Pharaoh says, “Now I will not give you straw." 
Exodus5:11 You must try to find straw for yourselves. But you will still have to make the same number of bricks.” ’ 
Exodus5:12 So the people went everywhere in the land of Egypt, to get straw from the fields." 
Exodus5:13 The slaves' masters made the Israelites work quickly. They said, ‘Finish all your work for each day, as much as when we gave straw to you.’" 
Exodus5:14 Pharaoh's slave masters hit the Israelite leaders who had authority over the people. They said to them, ‘Why have you not made the complete number of bricks today, as you did before?’" 
Exodus5:15 Then the Israelite leaders of the work went to Pharaoh. They asked him, ‘Please sir, why do you do these things to us, your servants?" 
Exodus5:16 Our masters no longer give us any straw. But they say “Make bricks!” Then they hit us. But it is your people who are doing wrong things, not us.’" 
Exodus5:17 But Pharaoh said, ‘You Israelites are just lazy people! That is why you say, “Let us go to offer sacrifices to the Lord.”" 
Exodus5:18 Now go back and do your work. Nobody will give you any straw. But you must make the complete number of bricks.’ 
Exodus5:19 The Israelite work leaders heard Pharaoh say, ‘You must still make the same number of bricks as you made before.’ Then they knew that they were in trouble." 
Exodus5:20 When they left Pharaoh, they met Moses and Aaron. Moses and Aaron were waiting for them to return from Pharaoh." 
Exodus5:21 The work leaders said to Moses and Aaron, ‘We hope that the Lord will punish you! You have made us like a bad smell to Pharaoh and to his officers. You have given them a reason to kill us.’" 
Exodus5:22 Then Moses returned to the Lord. He said, ‘My Lord, why have you brought trouble to these people? Why did you send me to lead them?" 
Exodus5:23 I went to speak to Pharaoh with your authority. But since I spoke to Pharaoh, he has caused these people to have trouble. And you have done nothing to save your people.’" 
Exodus6:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh. I will use my great power to make him let my people go. With my strong power I will cause him to make them leave his land.’" 
Exodus6:2 God also said to Moses, ‘I am the Lord." 
Exodus6:3 I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac and to Jacob. I showed them that I am God Almighty. But I did not let them know me by my special name, the Lord." 
Exodus6:4 I also made my covenant with them. I promised to give them the land of Canaan, where they were living as foreign people." 
Exodus6:5 I have heard the Israelites when they cry in pain. I know that the Egyptians have caused the Israelites to be their slaves. Now I have thought about my covenant. 
Exodus6:6 So you must say this to the Israelites: “I am the Lord. I will remove you from the power of the Egyptians. You will not have to do hard work to serve them as their slaves any more. I will use my strength to save you and I will punish the Egyptians. 
Exodus6:7 I will cause you to be my own people, and I will be your God. Then you will know that I am the Lord. I am your God who saved you from the power of the Egyptians." 
Exodus6:8 I will take you to live in another land. That is the land that I promised to give to Abraham, to Isaac and to Jacob. Yes, I will give it to you and it will belong to you. I am the Lord.” ’" 
Exodus6:9 Moses told the Lord 's message to the Israelites. But they refused to listen to him. They were very weak and tired, because their Egyptian masters were so cruel to them." 
Exodus6:10 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus6:11 ‘Go and speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Tell him that he must let the Israelites go out of his country.’" 
Exodus6:12 But Moses said to the Lord, ‘Look! Even the Israelites have not listened to me. So Pharaoh certainly will not listen to me. You know that I do not speak well.’" 
Exodus6:13 Then the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron about the Israelites, and about Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. He commanded Moses and Aaron to lead the Israelites out of Egypt." 
Exodus6:14 These were the leaders of their family clans: Israel's firstborn son was Reuben. Reuben's sons were: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron and Carmi. These were Reuben's family clans." 
Exodus6:15 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jakin, Zohar and Shaul. Shaul was the son of a Canaanite woman. These were Simeon's family clans." 
Exodus6:16 These are the names of the sons of Levi, from the oldest to the youngest: Gershon, Kohath and Merari. Levi himself lived for 137 years." 
Exodus6:17 The sons of Gershon and their clans: Libni and Shimei. 
Exodus6:18 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. Kohath lived for 133 years." 
Exodus6:19 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These were the family clans of Levi, from the oldest to the youngest." 
Exodus6:20 Amram married Jochebed, his father's sister. Aaron and Moses were their sons. Amram lived for 137 years." 
Exodus6:21 The sons of Izhar: Korah, Nepheg and Zikri." 
Exodus6:22 The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, Elzaphan and Sithri." 
Exodus6:23 Aaron married Elisheba. She was the daughter of Amminadab and the sister of Nahshon. Elisheba's children were: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
Exodus6:24 The sons of Korah: Assir, Elkanah and Abiasaph. These were Korah's family clans." 
Exodus6:25 Aaron's son, Eleazar, married one of Putiel's daughters. Phinehas was their son. These were the leaders of the Levite family clans." 
Exodus6:26 This shows us the ancestors of Aaron and Moses. They were the men that the Lord spoke to. He said to them, ‘Lead the Israelites out of Egypt. Lead them out in their families and clans, like an army.’" 
Exodus6:27 Moses and Aaron were the men who spoke to Pharaoh, king of Egypt. They told him that the Israelites would leave Egypt. They were the same Moses and Aaron as we read about in the list of Israelite families." 
Exodus6:28 When the Lord spoke to Moses in Egypt," 
Exodus6:29 he said, ‘I am the Lord. Tell Pharaoh, king of Egypt, everything that I say to you.’" 
Exodus6:30 But Moses said, ‘You know that I do not speak well. Pharaoh will not listen to me.’" 
Exodus7:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Look, I have made you like God to Pharaoh. Your brother Aaron will speak on your behalf, like your prophet." 
Exodus7:2 You must say everything that I command you to say. Your brother Aaron must tell Pharaoh to let the Israelites go out of his country. 
Exodus7:3 But I will make Pharaoh's mind become hard. I will do many miracles in Egypt that show my power. 
Exodus7:4 But Pharaoh will still refuse to listen to you. Then I will show my authority and I will punish the Egyptians. I will bring my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt like an army." 
Exodus7:5 Then the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord. I will show my great strength in Egypt and I will lead the Israelites out from there.’ 
Exodus7:6 Moses and Aaron obeyed all the commands of the Lord. 
Exodus7:7 Moses was 80 years old and Aaron was 83 years old when they spoke to Pharaoh. 
Exodus7:8 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Exodus7:9 ‘Pharaoh will say to you, “Show me a miracle.” Then say to Aaron, “Take your stick and throw it down in front of Pharaoh.” When Aaron does that, his stick will become a snake.’" 
Exodus7:10 So Moses and Aaron went to see Pharaoh. They did everything that the Lord had commanded them. Aaron threw down his stick in front of Pharaoh and his officers. And the stick became a snake! 
Exodus7:11 Then Pharaoh called for his wise men and his magicians to come to him. The Egyptian magicians did the same thing as Aaron. They used their secret magic to do it. 
Exodus7:12 Each of them threw down his stick and it became a snake. But Aaron's stick ate all their sticks! 
Exodus7:13 But Pharaoh's mind was hard and he refused to listen to Moses and Aaron. That was what the Lord had said would happen, and it did!" 
Exodus7:14 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Pharaoh's mind is still hard. He refuses to let the people go." 
Exodus7:15 Go to Pharaoh in the morning when he goes to the river. Wait for him by the edge of the river. Then take in your hand the stick that became a snake. 
Exodus7:16 Then say to Pharaoh, “The Lord, the God of the Israelites, has sent me to you to say, ‘Let my people go, so that they may worship me in the desert.’ But until now, you have not listened to my message." 
Exodus7:17 So this is what the Lord says: In this way, you will know that I am the Lord. Look! I will hit the water in the Nile River with the stick that is in my hand. Then the water will become blood." 
Exodus7:18 The fish in the river will die, and the river will have a very bad smell. Then the Egyptians will not be able to drink the water from the Nile River.” ’" 
Exodus7:19 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Say to Aaron, “Take your stick. Lift up your hand over the waters of Egypt. Lift your stick up over their rivers and their streams. Lift it up over their lakes and pools of water. Do that so that all the water becomes blood.” There will be blood in every part of Egypt. There will even be blood in their buckets and bowls.’" 
Exodus7:20 Moses and Aaron obeyed the command of the Lord. Aaron lifted up the stick in front of Pharaoh and his servants. He hit the water in the Nile River with the stick. Then all the water in the river became blood. 
Exodus7:21 The fish in the river died. The river had such a bad smell that the Egyptians could not drink its water. There was blood in every part of Egypt. 
Exodus7:22 But the Egyptian magicians used their magic and they did the same thing. So Pharaoh's mind continued to be hard. He still refused to listen to Moses and Aaron. The Lord had said that this would happen, and it did!" 
Exodus7:23 Pharaoh turned away and he went into his house. He did not worry about what had happened. 
Exodus7:24 The Egyptians dug holes on the shore of the Nile River to find water to drink. They could not drink the water from the river itself. 
Exodus7:25 After the Lord had made the water in the river become blood, another seven days passed." 
Exodus8:1 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Go to Pharaoh and say to him, “This is the message from the Lord: Let my people go so that they may worship me." 
Exodus8:2 If you refuse to let them go, I will send thousands of frogs to bring trouble to your whole country." 
Exodus8:3 The Nile River will be full of frogs. The frogs will go into your house. They will jump into your bed. They will go into the houses of your servants. They will go into the houses of your people. They will jump into your ovens and into your dishes. 
Exodus8:4 The frogs will jump all over you. They will jump on your people and on all your servants.” ’ 
Exodus8:5 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Say to Aaron, “Take your stick in your hand. Then raise your hand over the rivers, the streams and the pools. You will cause frogs to come up over the whole of Egypt.” ’" 
Exodus8:6 So Aaron lifted up his hand over the water of Egypt. Then the frogs came up and they covered the whole of Egypt. 
Exodus8:7 But the magicians used their magic to do the same thing. They also made frogs come up on the land of Egypt. 
Exodus8:8 Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron to come to him. He said, ‘Pray to the Lord. Ask him to remove the frogs from me and from my people. Then I will let your people go. They can offer sacrifices to the Lord.’" 
Exodus8:9 Moses said to Pharaoh, ‘I will let you choose the time when I should pray to God. Then I will ask God to do this for you, for your servants and for your people. I will ask God to remove the frogs from you and from all your houses. The frogs will remain only in the Nile River.’" 
Exodus8:10 Pharaoh said, ‘Do it tomorrow.’ Moses answered, ‘I will do what you have asked. Then you will know that there is nobody like the Lord our God." 
Exodus8:11 The frogs will go away from you and your houses. They will go away from your servants and your people. They will remain only in the river.’ 
Exodus8:12 So Moses and Aaron left Pharaoh. Then Moses prayed to the Lord about the frogs that he had brought to punish Pharaoh. 
Exodus8:13 And the Lord did what Moses asked. The frogs in the houses, in the yards and in the fields all died." 
Exodus8:14 The people swept the frogs together to make big heaps. There was a very bad smell over the whole country. 
Exodus8:15 But when Pharaoh saw that the trouble had gone, his mind became hard again. He refused to listen to Moses and Aaron. The Lord had said that this would happen, and it did!" 
Exodus8:16 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Say to Aaron, “Lift up your stick and hit the dirt on the ground. It will become gnats in the whole land of Egypt.” ’" 
Exodus8:17 Moses and Aaron obeyed God. Aaron lifted up his hand and he hit the dirt with his stick. The dirt became gnats that flew onto all the people and onto all the animals. The dirt on the ground became gnats all over Egypt. 
Exodus8:18 Then the Egyptian magicians tried to use their magic to make gnats appear. But they could not do it. The gnats were on all the people and on all the animals. 
Exodus8:19 Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, ‘This is the work of God.’ But there was no change in Pharaoh's thoughts. He would not listen to them. The Lord had said that this would happen, and it did!" 
Exodus8:20 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Get up early in the morning. Meet Pharaoh when he goes out to the river. Then say to him, “The Lord says: You must let my people go. Let them go to worship me." 
Exodus8:21 If you do not let my people go, I will send thousands of flies on you. I will send them on your servants and on your people. I will send them into your houses. The houses of the Egyptians will be full of flies. The flies will cover all the ground where people live." 
Exodus8:22 But it will be different in the region of Goshen, where my people live. I will not send flies there. Then you will know that I, the Lord, am doing my work here in this land." 
Exodus8:23 I will make a difference between my people and your people. This miracle will happen tomorrow.” ’ 
Exodus8:24 That is what the Lord did. Great numbers of flies came into Pharaoh's house and into his servants' houses. The flies went all over Egypt and they destroyed the whole land. 
Exodus8:25 Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron to come to him. He said to them, ‘Go! You can offer sacrifices to your God here, in Egypt.’" 
Exodus8:26 But Moses said, ‘It would not be right to do that. The Egyptians do not like our sacrifices of animals. If we offer these sacrifices to the Lord our God, the Egyptians will be angry with us. They will throw stones at us to kill us." 
Exodus8:27 So we must go on a journey for three days into the desert. We will offer sacrifices to the Lord our God there, as he has told us to do.’" 
Exodus8:28 So Pharaoh said, ‘I will let you go. You may go into the desert and offer sacrifices to the Lord your God there. But do not go very far away. And pray for me too.’" 
Exodus8:29 Then Moses said, ‘I will leave you now, and I will pray to the Lord. Tomorrow, all the flies will go away from you, your officers and your people. But be careful! Do not deceive us, as you did before. You must really let the people go away to offer sacrifices to the Lord.’" 
Exodus8:30 So Moses left Pharaoh and he prayed to the Lord. 
Exodus8:31 The Lord did what Moses asked him. All the flies left Pharaoh, his officers and his people. Not one fly remained!" 
Exodus8:32 But again, Pharaoh's mind became hard. He refused to let the people go." 
Exodus9:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Go to Pharaoh and say to him, “The Lord, the God of the Israelites says this: Let my people go so that they may worship me." 
Exodus9:2 If you refuse to let them go, you will have more trouble. If you still keep them in Egypt," 
Exodus9:3 the Lord will punish you. He will send a very bad illness on all your animals. Your animals in the fields, your horses, donkeys, camels, cows, sheep and goats will all become very ill." 
Exodus9:4 But the Lord will make a difference between the animals of the Israelites and the animals of the Egyptians. None of the animals of the Israelites will die.” ’ 
Exodus9:5 The Lord decided when this would happen. He said, ‘Tomorrow I will make this happen in the land of Egypt.’" 
Exodus9:6 So on the next day, the Lord did it! All the animals of the Egyptians died. But not one of the animals of the Israelites died." 
Exodus9:7 Pharaoh sent his men to see what had happened. They saw that not one of the animals of the Israelites was dead! But Pharaoh's mind was still hard. He did not let the people go. 
Exodus9:8 Then the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, ‘Take in your hands some ashes from an oven. Throw them up in the air as Pharaoh watches." 
Exodus9:9 They will become very small dust over the whole country of Egypt. The dust will cause boils to appear on the skin of people and animals. It will happen all over Egypt.’ 
Exodus9:10 So they took ashes from an oven and they stood in front of Pharaoh. Moses threw the ashes up in the air. Then bad boils appeared on both people and animals. 
Exodus9:11 All the Egyptians had boils, even the magicians. Because of the boils, the magicians could not stand in front of Moses." 
Exodus9:12 But Pharaoh refused to listen to Moses and Aaron. The Lord caused Pharaoh's mind to be hard. The Lord had told Moses that this would happen, and it did!" 
Exodus9:13 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Get up early in the morning and go to Pharaoh. Say to him, “This is what the Lord, the God of the Israelites says: Let my people go to worship me." 
Exodus9:14 This time, I will send all my troubles to punish you. I will send them against you, your officers and your people. I want you to know that there is nobody as great as me in the whole earth. That is why I am doing this." 
Exodus9:15 Already I could have used my power to destroy you and your people. With one very bad trouble, I could have removed you from the earth." 
Exodus9:16 But I have let you live, to show you my power. Then people all over the world will know how great I am." 
Exodus9:17 You are still too proud to let my people go. 
Exodus9:18 Look! Tomorrow at this time, I will send a very great storm of hail. Nobody has ever seen hail fall like this in Egypt before now. From Egypt's first day as a country until today, nobody has seen a storm like this." 
Exodus9:19 Now send your servants out to tell this message to your people. You must bring into your houses all your animals from the fields to be safe. The hail will fall on every person and on every animal that is still outside. They will all die.” ’ 
Exodus9:20 Some of Pharaoh's officers were afraid of what the Lord said he would do. So they quickly brought their servants and animals inside their houses. 
Exodus9:21 But others did not believe the Lord 's message. They left their servants and animals outside in the fields. 
Exodus9:22 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Lift up your hand towards the sky. Then hail will fall over all the country of Egypt. It will fall on people and on animals. It will fall on all the plants that grow in the fields of Egypt.’" 
Exodus9:23 When Moses lifted up his stick towards the sky, the Lord sent a great storm. He sent thunder, hail and lightning." 
Exodus9:24 The hail fell and there was lightning like fire. It was the worst storm anywhere in Egypt since Egypt had become a nation. 
Exodus9:25 Everywhere in Egypt, the hail knocked down everything that was in the fields. It knocked down both people and animals. It knocked down all the plants in the fields and it broke all the trees." 
Exodus9:26 But no hail fell in the region of Goshen, where the Israelites lived." 
Exodus9:27 Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron to come to him. He said to them, ‘This time, I have done a bad thing. The Lord is right. I and my people are guilty." 
Exodus9:28 The storms with the thunder and the hail are too much for us! Pray to the Lord to take them away. Then I will let you go! You do not need to stay any longer in Egypt.’ 
Exodus9:29 Then Moses said to Pharaoh, ‘As soon as I leave the city, I will lift my hands to the Lord and I will pray to him. The storm will stop and there will be no more hail. Then you will know that the whole world belongs to the Lord." 
Exodus9:30 But I know you and your officers. You still do not respect the Lord God.’ 
Exodus9:31 At that time, the barley was ripe in the fields and the flax was nearly ripe. So the storm of hail destroyed the flax and the barley." 
Exodus9:32 But the hail did not destroy the wheat and other grains. Those crops become ripe later in the year. 
Exodus9:33 Then Moses left Pharaoh and he went out of the city. He lifted up his hands to the Lord and he prayed. Then the storms and the hail stopped. The heavy rain stopped falling on the earth. 
Exodus9:34 Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the storms had stopped. So he did a bad thing again. His mind and his officers' minds became hard. 
Exodus9:35 Pharaoh still refused to obey God. He did not let the Israelites go. The Lord had told Moses that this would happen, and it did!" 
Exodus10:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Go to see Pharaoh. I have caused his mind to become hard. I have also caused his officers' minds to become hard. I have done this so that I can do miracles to show him my power." 
Exodus10:2 In the future, you can tell your children and your children's children how I punished the Egyptians. You can tell them about the miracles that I did among the Egyptians. In this way, you will know that I am the Lord.’" 
Exodus10:3 So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh. They said to him, ‘The Lord, the God of the Israelites, says this: “You are still too proud to obey me. Let my people go so that they may worship me." 
Exodus10:4 If you refuse to let them go, I will bring locusts into your country tomorrow." 
Exodus10:5 They will cover the whole country. Nobody will be able to see the ground. They will eat everything that the hail did not destroy. They will eat any crops that you still have. That will include every tree that is growing in your fields. 
Exodus10:6 They will fill your houses, and your officers' houses. They will fill all the houses in Egypt! It will be worse than anything that your fathers or your grandfathers have ever seen. Nothing like this has ever happened in Egypt before now.” ’ Then Moses turned away and left Pharaoh." 
Exodus10:7 Pharaoh's officers said to him, ‘Will you let this man bring trouble to us for ever? Allow the people to go. Then they can worship the Lord their God. Surely you understand by now that this man has destroyed Egypt!’" 
Exodus10:8 So Pharaoh's officers took Moses and Aaron back to him. Pharaoh said to them, ‘Go and worship the Lord your God. But tell me, who will go?’" 
Exodus10:9 Moses said, ‘We will all go, both young people and old people. We will take our sons and daughters. We will also take our animals, because we must have a feast to worship the Lord.’" 
Exodus10:10 Pharaoh said to them, ‘No! If I ever let you go with your families like that, you will need the Lord to take care of you! I can see that you want to make trouble." 
Exodus10:11 No! If you really want to go and worship the Lord, only the men can go.’ Pharaoh was angry and he told Moses and Aaron to go away." 
Exodus10:12 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Lift up your hand over the country of Egypt. Then locusts will fly all over the land. They will eat every plant that grows in the ground. They will eat everything that the hail has not destroyed.’" 
Exodus10:13 So Moses lifted up his stick over the country of Egypt. Then the Lord caused an east wind to blow across the land, for the whole day and the whole night. In the morning, the east wind had brought the locusts." 
Exodus10:14 The locusts flew into every part of the country of Egypt. Thousands of locusts sat on everything. There had never been so many locusts in Egypt before. And it will never happen again. 
Exodus10:15 The locusts covered all the ground, until the ground became black with locusts. They ate all the plants that grew in the ground, and all the fruit of the trees. They ate everything that the hail had not destroyed. Not one green thing remained on any tree or plant, in all the country of Egypt." 
Exodus10:16 Then Pharaoh quickly called Moses and Aaron to come to him. He said, ‘I have done bad things against the Lord your God and against you." 
Exodus10:17 Please forgive my sins just one more time. Ask the Lord your God to remove this punishment of death from me.’ 
Exodus10:18 Moses left Pharaoh and he prayed to the Lord. 
Exodus10:19 Then the Lord changed the wind to a very strong west wind. This wind lifted the locusts up and it blew them away into the Red Sea. Not one locust remained in all the country of Egypt. 
Exodus10:20 But the Lord caused Pharaoh's mind to become hard again. Pharaoh would not let the Israelites go. 
Exodus10:21 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Lift up your hand towards the sky. Then it will become dark over the whole country of Egypt. It will be so dark that people will be able to feel it.’" 
Exodus10:22 So Moses lifted up his hand towards the sky and it became completely dark. It was dark through the whole country of Egypt for three days. 
Exodus10:23 People could not see each other. Nobody could move anywhere for three days. But the Israelites had light in the places where they lived. 
Exodus10:24 Then Pharaoh called Moses to come to him. He said, ‘Go and worship the Lord. Even your families may go with you. Only your animals must remain in Egypt.’" 
Exodus10:25 But Moses said, ‘Then you will have to give us animals for our sacrifices and burnt offerings. We need our animals to offer to the Lord our God." 
Exodus10:26 So we must take our animals with us. Not one animal can remain behind. We must take them to worship the Lord our God. Until we arrive in the desert, we will not know which animals to use as sacrifices.’" 
Exodus10:27 But the Lord caused Pharaoh's mind to be hard. Pharaoh would not agree to let the Israelites go. 
Exodus10:28 Pharaoh said to Moses, ‘Go away from me! Be careful not to come back! I never want to see you again! On the day that you see my face, you will die!’" 
Exodus10:29 Moses replied, ‘You are right! You will never see me again.’" 
Exodus11:1 The Lord said to Moses, ‘I will cause Pharaoh and Egypt to have one more trouble. Then Pharaoh will let you go out of Egypt. He will cause you to leave very quickly and go away from him." 
Exodus11:2 So tell the Israelite people now what they must do. Every man and every woman must ask the Egyptians that live near them for gold things and silver things.’ 
Exodus11:3 The Lord caused the Egyptians to be kind to the Israelite people. As for Moses himself, Pharaoh's officers and the Egyptian people respected him as an important man." 
Exodus11:4 So Moses went to the king and he said, ‘The Lord God says this: “At about midnight, I will travel through the whole country of Egypt." 
Exodus11:5 I will cause all the firstborn sons in Egypt to die. The firstborn son of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, will die. The firstborn son of the female slave who makes flour, will die. Even the firstborn of the farm animals will die." 
Exodus11:6 Everyone will be crying loudly in the whole country of Egypt. Nothing like that has ever happened before now, and it will never happen again." 
Exodus11:7 But no trouble will happen to the Israelite people. Not even a dog will frighten them or their animals. Then you will know that I, the Lord, make a difference between Egypt and Israel.” ’" 
Exodus11:8 Moses continued to say to the king, ‘All your officers will come to me. They will fall down in front of me and they will say, “Now go! Leave here with all your people.” After that, I will leave.’ After he said that, Moses left Pharaoh. Moses was very angry." 
Exodus11:9 The Lord had already said to Moses, ‘Pharaoh will refuse to listen to you. But that will give me the chance to do even greater miracles in Egypt.’" 
Exodus11:10 Moses and Aaron did all these miracles in front of Pharaoh. But the Lord caused Pharaoh's mind to be hard. So Pharaoh would not let the Israelites leave his country. 
Exodus12:1 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron in the country of Egypt. 
Exodus12:2 He said, ‘This month will be the first month of each year for you." 
Exodus12:3 Tell all the Israelite people to do this on the tenth day of this month: Each man must choose a lamb to kill as a sacrifice for his family. That will be one lamb for each home. 
Exodus12:4 But the family may be too small to eat a whole lamb. Then they must share a lamb with another family that lives near. You must decide how much each person can eat and then count the number of people. 
Exodus12:5 The lamb that you choose must have nothing wrong with it. It must be a male lamb that is one year old. It can be either a young sheep or a young goat. 
Exodus12:6 Keep the lamb safe until the 14th day of this month. Then every Israelite family must kill their lamb in the evening. 
Exodus12:7 They must take some of its blood. They must put the blood on the wood that is round the door of their house. They must put it on each side of the door and above the door. They must do this in every house where they will eat a lamb. 
Exodus12:8 That night, they must cook the meat over the fire. They must eat it immediately, with bitter herbs and with bread that has no yeast in it." 
Exodus12:9 You must cook the meat before you eat it. Cook it over the fire. Do not cook it in water. Cook the whole lamb, with its head, its legs and the inside parts of its body." 
Exodus12:10 You must eat all the meat before morning arrives. If some of it still remains in the morning, then you must burn it." 
Exodus12:11 This is how you must eat the lamb: Dress yourselves so that you are ready to travel. Put your shoes on your feet. Take your stick in your hand. Then eat the food quickly. This is the Passover meal which shows that you obey me, the Lord." 
Exodus12:12 On the night that you eat the Passover meal, I will travel through the country of Egypt. I will kill every firstborn son and every firstborn male animal. I will punish all the gods of Egypt. I am the Lord." 
Exodus12:13 When you put the blood around the doors of your houses, that will be a sign to show that you live there. When I see the blood on your house, I will pass over you. No trouble will hurt you, when I attack the people of Egypt." 
Exodus12:14 In future years, you must remember this day as a special day every year. It will be a festival when you worship me, the Lord. You and your descendants must do this every year, for all time." 
Exodus12:15 For seven days, you must eat flat bread that has no yeast in it. On the first day of the Passover festival, you must take all the yeast out of your houses. During those seven days, if anyone eats bread with yeast in it, he will no longer belong to my people, the Israelites." 
Exodus12:16 On the first day of the festival, you must bring together all the people to a special meeting. And you must do the same thing on the seventh day. On these special days, you must not do your usual work. You may prepare the food that you need to eat on those days. That is the only work that you may do." 
Exodus12:17 This will be the feast of Flat Bread, when you eat bread with no yeast in it. You will remember that I brought you all out of the country of Egypt on this day. You marched out like an army, family by family! That is why you must enjoy this day as a special day, for all time. This is a rule that you must always obey." 
Exodus12:18 In the first month of each year, you must eat bread without yeast in it. Do this from the evening of the 14th day until the evening of the 21st day." 
Exodus12:19 For those seven days, you must not have any yeast in your houses. Whoever eats anything with yeast in it will no longer belong to my people, the Israelites. Everyone must obey these rules, those who live among you as strangers, as well as those who have been born in your land." 
Exodus12:20 Eat nothing that has yeast in it. Whatever country you live in, you must eat bread without yeast in it.’" 
Exodus12:21 Then Moses called the leaders of the Israelites to come to him. He said to them, ‘Go immediately and choose a lamb for each of your families. Then kill the animals for the Passover feast." 
Exodus12:22 Put the blood into a dish. Then take a branch of hyssop. Make it wet with the blood that is in the dish. Then put some of the blood on the wood that is round your door. Nobody must go out of the door of his house until the morning. 
Exodus12:23 The Lord will pass through the country and he will kill the Egyptians. But when the Lord sees the blood on the wood round the door, he will pass over that house. He will not let the death angel come into your houses. The Lord will not let him kill you." 
Exodus12:24 You must obey these rules always, both you and your descendants, for all time." 
Exodus12:25 You will go into the land that the Lord promised to give you. Then you must continue to obey these rules. 
Exodus12:26 Your children may say to you, “What does this feast mean?”" 
Exodus12:27 Then you must say to them, “It is the Lord 's Passover sacrifice. The Lord passed over the houses of the Israelites when they were in Egypt. He killed the Egyptians but he saved our families.” ’ Then the people bent their heads down to the ground and they worshipped God." 
Exodus12:28 The Israelites did everything that the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron. 
Exodus12:29 At midnight, the Lord killed all the firstborn sons in the land of Egypt. The firstborn son of Pharaoh, the king, died. But also, the firstborn son of any man who was in prison died. Every firstborn son in Egypt died. All the firstborn animals also died." 
Exodus12:30 Pharaoh and all his officers woke up in the middle of the night. All the Egyptians also woke up in the middle of the night. Everyone was crying loudly everywhere in Egypt. In every home, somebody had died that night." 
Exodus12:31 During the night, Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron to come to him. He said, ‘Get out of here! Take all the Israelites with you and go away from my people! Go and worship the Lord, as you asked me before." 
Exodus12:32 Take all your animals with you, as you have said. Just go away! But also pray that God will bless me.’" 
Exodus12:33 The Egyptians were telling the Israelites to leave quickly. They wanted them to go out of the country immediately. The Egyptians said, ‘If we do not send them away immediately, we will all die!’" 
Exodus12:34 So the Israelites took their bread before they had cooked it. They had not even put the yeast into it. They put the bread in dishes and they put clothes round the dishes. Then they carried the dishes on their shoulders. 
Exodus12:35 The Israelites obeyed Moses. They asked the Egyptians for silver and gold. They also asked them for clothes. 
Exodus12:36 The Lord had caused the Egyptians to be kind to the Israelites. Because of this, the Egyptians gave the Israelites everything that they asked for. In that way, the Israelites took away all the valuable things that belonged to the Egyptians." 
Exodus12:37 The Israelites travelled from Rameses to Succoth. There were about 600,000 men who walked. There were also many women and children." 
Exodus12:38 Many other people also travelled with them. They had a very large number of sheep, goats and cows." 
Exodus12:39 The Israelites cooked the bread that they had brought with them from Egypt. It had no yeast in it, because they had to leave Egypt quickly. The Egyptians did not let them wait. So the Israelites did not have time to prepare any food for themselves." 
Exodus12:40 The Israelites had lived in Egypt for 430 years. 
Exodus12:41 It was on the last day of the 430 years that all the Lord 's people left Egypt. They left in family groups, like an army." 
Exodus12:42 The Lord carefully watched his people all that night, when he brought them out of Egypt. Because of that, all Israelites must watch carefully during this special night. They and their descendants must do this every year, to thank the Lord." 
Exodus12:43 Then the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, ‘These are the rules for the Passover festival: No foreign person may eat the Passover meal." 
Exodus12:44 If you buy a foreign slave, you must first circumcise him. Then he may eat the food." 
Exodus12:45 But if you pay him money for his work, he must not eat the food. A visitor also must not eat the food." 
Exodus12:46 You must eat the meal in one house. You must not take any of the meat outside the house. You must not break any of the bones in the meat. 
Exodus12:47 All the Israelites must enjoy the feast together. 
Exodus12:48 There may be a foreign person who lives among you. He may want to join you to eat the Lord 's Passover meal. But he must first be circumcised as well as all the men in his house. Then he can join with you and eat the Passover meal. He will be like a man who has been born in Israel. But no male person without circumcision can join the Passover feast. 
Exodus12:49 Both the people who were born as Israelites and the foreign people who live among you must obey this rule.’ 
Exodus12:50 All the Israelites did everything that the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron. 
Exodus12:51 On that same day, the Lord brought the Israelites out of Egypt, in family groups, like an army." 
Exodus13:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. 
Exodus13:2 He said, ‘Keep every firstborn male separate and special for me. Every male who is the first to be born of his mother belongs to me. He is mine, whether he is a man or an animal.’" 
Exodus13:3 Moses said to the people, ‘Remember this day, the day when you came out of Egypt. You left the place where you were slaves. The Lord brought you out with his powerful authority. Remember! Do not eat anything that has yeast in it on this day." 
Exodus13:4 Today you are leaving Egypt. It is the first month of the year, called Abib." 
Exodus13:5 The Lord will bring you to the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Hivites and the Jebusites. God promised your ancestors that he would give that land to you. The land will give you plenty of good food and drink, enough for everyone. When the Lord brings you into that place, you must eat the Passover meal to worship God in this month every year." 
Exodus13:6 For seven days you must eat bread without yeast in it. Then on the seventh day you must have a festival for the Lord. 
Exodus13:7 Eat bread without yeast during those seven days. There must not be any yeast left among you, in the whole of your land." 
Exodus13:8 On that day, you must tell your children the reason for this festival. Tell them, “We do this because of what the Lord did for us. He brought us out of Egypt.”" 
Exodus13:9 This special time will be like a mark on your hand. It will be like something that you fix between your eyes. It will be a sign that causes you to remember what happened on this day. Then you will not forget to speak about the Law of the Lord. Remember this: The Lord brought you out of Egypt with his great power. 
Exodus13:10 Every year, at the right time you must do what I have said." 
Exodus13:11 The Lord will bring you into the land of the Canaanites. It is the land that he promised to give to you and to your ancestors. When he gives it to you, you must do this:" 
Exodus13:12 You must give to the Lord all the firstborn males. That includes your own firstborn sons, and the male animals that are born first. They belong to the Lord." 
Exodus13:13 When a donkey gives birth to her first male, you must give a lamb to God, instead of the donkey. If you do not do that, you must kill the donkey. You must break its neck. For any of your own firstborn sons, you must give an animal instead of your son." 
Exodus13:14 One day, your son may ask you, “What does this mean?” Then you must say to him, “The Lord brought us out of Egypt with his powerful authority. He took us away from the place where we were slaves." 
Exodus13:15 Pharaoh refused to let us go. But the Lord killed all the firstborn sons in the country of Egypt. He killed all the firstborn males, both people and animals. That is why I offer all the firstborn male animals as a sacrifice to the Lord. But for each of my firstborn sons, I give an animal to God instead.”" 
Exodus13:16 It will be like a mark on your hand or something that you fix between your eyes. It will be a sign that causes you to remember what happened. You will remember that the Lord used his great power to bring us out of Egypt.’ 
Exodus13:17 When Pharaoh let the people go away, God did not lead them through the country of the Philistines. This was a short way for them to go, but God did not lead them that way. God said, ‘If the people have to fight a war, they may change their minds. Then they may return to Egypt.’" 
Exodus13:18 So God led the people round by the desert road. They went towards the Red Sea. When the Israelites came out of Egypt, they were ready to fight." 
Exodus13:19 Moses took Joseph's bones with him. Joseph had made the Israelites promise to do this. He had said, ‘One day, God will come and he will save you. Then you must carry my bones with you when you leave this place.’" 
Exodus13:20 The Israelites travelled from Succoth and they arrived at Etham. They put up their tents there, on the edge of the desert." 
Exodus13:21 As they travelled, the Lord was leading them. During the day, he was there as a pillar of cloud that went in front of them. During the night, he went as a pillar of fire. This gave them light, so they could travel during the day or the night." 
Exodus13:22 The cloud did not leave the people during the day. Nor did the fire leave them during the night. It was always in front of them. 
Exodus14:1 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus14:2 ‘Tell the Israelites that they must turn round. They must go and stay near Pi-Hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea. You must put up your tents beside the sea, across from Baal Zephon." 
Exodus14:3 Then Pharaoh will think, “The Israelites are confused. They do not know where they are going. The desert has stopped them.”" 
Exodus14:4 Then I will cause Pharaoh's mind to become hard again. He will go to catch the Israelites. I will show how great I am when I win against Pharaoh and his whole army. Because of this, the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord.’ The Israelites did what God said." 
Exodus14:5 Someone told the king of Egypt that the Israelites had run away. Then Pharaoh and his officers changed their minds about the Israelites. They said, ‘We have done a foolish thing. We have let the Israelites go. We have lost our slaves!’" 
Exodus14:6 So Pharaoh prepared his chariot and he took his army with him. 
Exodus14:7 He took 600 of his best chariots with him, as well as all the other chariots of Egypt. All the chariots had officers to drive them." 
Exodus14:8 The Lord caused the mind of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to be hard. So Pharaoh chased the Israelites, who had left Egypt without any fear." 
Exodus14:9 The Egyptian soldiers chased the Israelites to catch them. They went with all Pharaoh's horses, chariots and officers. The Egyptian army reached the place where the Israelites had put up their tents. That was beside the sea, near Pi-Hahiroth, across from Baal Zephon." 
Exodus14:10 When Pharaoh came nearer, the Israelites looked up. They saw that the Egyptian army had followed them. The Israelites became very afraid. They called loudly to the Lord to help them." 
Exodus14:11 They said to Moses, ‘Why have you brought us here, to die in the desert? Surely there were enough places in Egypt to bury dead people! You should never have brought us out of Egypt!" 
Exodus14:12 We said to you in Egypt, “Leave us alone. Let us work for the Egyptians.” It would have been better for us to be their slaves than to die here in the desert!’" 
Exodus14:13 Then Moses said to the people, ‘Do not be afraid! Be brave! You will see how the Lord will save you today. Look at the Egyptians over there. You will never see them again!" 
Exodus14:14 The Lord will fight for you. You will only have to watch.’ 
Exodus14:15 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Do not continue to call to me for help! Tell the Israelites to move on." 
Exodus14:16 You yourself must do this: Lift up your stick and hold your hand out over the sea. The water will become two separate parts. Then the Israelites can go through the middle of the sea on dry ground. 
Exodus14:17 This is what I, the Lord, will do: I will cause the minds of the Egyptians to become hard. They will follow the Israelites into the sea to catch them. I will show how great I am when I win against Pharaoh and all his army, his chariots, his horses and their riders." 
Exodus14:18 When I do that, the Egyptians will know that I really am the Lord. They will know that I am great.’" 
Exodus14:19 The angel of God had been leading the army of the Israelites. Now he moved and he went behind them. The pillar of cloud moved and it stood behind the army. 
Exodus14:20 It stood between the Egyptian army and the Israelite army. During the whole night, the Egyptians were in the dark, because of the cloud. But the cloud gave light to the Israelites. So the two armies did not come near to each other during the whole night." 
Exodus14:21 Then Moses lifted up his hand over the sea. During that whole night, the Lord made a strong wind blow from the east. This caused the sea to become two separate parts. The ground between the water became dry land." 
Exodus14:22 So the Israelites walked on the dry ground through the middle of the sea. The water was like a wall on their right side and on their left side. 
Exodus14:23 The Egyptians followed the Israelites into the middle of the sea to catch them. All Pharaoh's horses, his chariots and their riders did this." 
Exodus14:24 Just before dawn, the Lord looked down from the pillar of cloud with fire in it. He saw the Egyptian army and he made them become confused." 
Exodus14:25 He stopped the wheels of their chariots, so that the Egyptians could not drive them properly. So the Egyptians said, ‘Let us run away from the Israelite army! It is the Lord who fights for them against Egypt.’" 
Exodus14:26 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Lift up your hand over the sea. Then the water will return back. The sea will cover the Egyptians, their chariots, their horses and their riders.’" 
Exodus14:27 So Moses lifted up his hand over the sea. At dawn, the sea returned to its proper place. The Egyptians tried to run away from the water, but the Lord made them drown in the middle of the sea." 
Exodus14:28 The water returned to its proper place. It covered all of Pharaoh's army that had followed the Israelites into the sea. It covered all the chariots, the horses and their riders. Not one of Pharaoh's soldiers was still alive!" 
Exodus14:29 But the Israelites walked on dry ground through the middle of the sea. The water was like a wall on their right side and on their left side. 
Exodus14:30 On that day, the Lord saved the Israelites from the Egyptian army. The Israelites saw the dead bodies of the Egyptians, which lay on the shore." 
Exodus14:31 The Israelites saw the great power that the Lord had used against the Egyptians. As a result, they respected the Lord and his power. They trusted the Lord to help them, and they also trusted Moses, his servant." 
Exodus15:1 Then Moses and the Israelites sang this song to praise the Lord: ‘I will sing to the Lord, because he has shown his great power. He threw horses and their riders into the sea." 
Exodus15:2 The Lord makes me strong. He is the reason for my song. He is the one who has saved me. He is my God and I will praise him. He is my father's God and I will praise his name. 
Exodus15:3 The Lord is like a brave soldier. The Lord is his name. 
Exodus15:4 He threw Pharaoh's chariots and his army into the sea. Pharaoh's best officers drowned in the Red Sea. 
Exodus15:5 The deep waters have covered them. They fell to the floor of the sea, like a stone." 
Exodus15:6 Your right hand, Lord, was great and powerful. Your right hand, Lord, destroyed the enemy." 
Exodus15:7 With your powerful authority, you killed your enemies. You were very angry with them. You killed them, as a fire burns dry grass." 
Exodus15:8 You blew on the water and it became like a wall. The deep waters stood up in a big heap. 
Exodus15:9 The enemy said, “We will chase them. We will catch them. We will destroy them with our swords. We will do whatever we want to them. We will take all their valuable things for ourselves.”" 
Exodus15:10 But Lord, you blew on the waters so that the sea covered your enemies. They went down like heavy metal in the great waters." 
Exodus15:11 Lord, there is nobody like you among all the gods! There is nobody like you anywhere! You are great and holy. Everyone should respect you and praise you. You do great miracles. There is nobody like you!" 
Exodus15:12 You lifted up your right hand. A big hole opened in the ground and our enemies fell into it. 
Exodus15:13 You have promised to love your people. So you have saved them and you lead them. With your strength, you show them the way to your holy home." 
Exodus15:14 The people of other nations will hear what you have done. They will be very afraid. The people who live in Philistia will shake with fear. 
Exodus15:15 The rulers of Edom will be afraid. The leaders of Moab will shake with fear. The people who live in Canaan will become weak. 
Exodus15:16 They will all be afraid. Because of your great power they will want to run away. But they cannot move! They will remain still, like stones, until your people go on past them. They will stand and watch as the people you have saved, Lord, pass by." 
Exodus15:17 You will bring your people in safely. You will bring them to live on your own mountain. Lord, that is the place that you have prepared for your home. It is the holy place that you have built, Lord God." 
Exodus15:18 The Lord will rule as king for ever! 
Exodus15:19 Pharaoh's horses, his chariots and his soldiers went into the sea. Then the Lord made the waters of the sea come back over them. But the Israelites walked through the middle of the sea on dry ground.’" 
Exodus15:20 Then Miriam, Aaron's sister, who was a prophet, took a tambourine in her hand. All the other women followed her, with tambourines in their hands. They danced while Miriam sang to them." 
Exodus15:21 This is the song that she sang: ‘Sing to the Lord, because he has shown his great power. He threw horses and their riders into the sea.’" 
Exodus15:22 Then Moses led the Israelites away from the Red Sea. They travelled into the Shur Desert. They walked into the desert for three days and they could not find any water to drink. 
Exodus15:23 Then they arrived at Marah. But they could not drink the water there because it was too bitter. That is why they called that place ‘Marah’. 
Exodus15:24 Then the people complained. They spoke against Moses. They said, ‘There is nothing for us to drink!’" 
Exodus15:25 Then Moses called to the Lord for help. The Lord showed Moses a special tree. Moses threw a branch into the water. Then the water became good for them to drink. There at Marah, the Lord made a law for the Israelites to obey. He tested them there, to see if they would trust him." 
Exodus15:26 He said, ‘Be careful to listen to what the Lord your God says to you. Let him see that you are doing things that are right. Obey his commands and his rules. Then I will not give to you the diseases that I gave to the Egyptians. I am the Lord. I am the one who gives you health.’" 
Exodus15:27 Then the Israelites arrived at Elim. There they found 12 wells of water and 70 palm trees. The Israelites put up their tents there, where there was water." 
Exodus16:1 Then all the Israelites left Elim and they went into the Sin Desert. This is between Elim and Sinai. They arrived in the desert on the 15th day of the second month after they had left Egypt. 
Exodus16:2 When they were in the desert, all the Israelites complained against Moses and Aaron." 
Exodus16:3 The Israelites said to them, ‘It would have been better if the Lord had killed us in Egypt! There, we sat round pots with plenty of meat. We ate all the food that we wanted. But now you have brought us into this desert. We are so hungry that we will soon die!’" 
Exodus16:4 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘I will cause bread to fall down from the sky for you like rain. Each day, the people must go out and pick up enough bread for that day. In this way I will test them. I will discover whether they will obey my rules." 
Exodus16:5 On the sixth day, they must pick up and prepare twice as much bread.’" 
Exodus16:6 So Moses and Aaron said to all the Israelites, ‘In the evening, you will know who brought you out of Egypt. It was the Lord!" 
Exodus16:7 Then, in the morning, you will see how great the Lord is. The Lord has heard the bad things that you have said against him. We, Moses and Aaron, are the Lord 's servants. So you are complaining against him, not against us!’" 
Exodus16:8 Moses said to them, ‘The Lord will give you meat to eat in the evening. And in the morning, he will give you all the bread that you want. He will do this because he has heard you when you complained against him. We are only his servants. You have said bad things against the Lord, not against us.’" 
Exodus16:9 Then Moses said to Aaron, ‘Say to all the Israelites, “The Lord has heard the bad things that you have said against him. Now come together, and stand in front of him.” ’" 
Exodus16:10 While Aaron spoke, the Israelites looked towards the desert. They saw the bright glory of the Lord which appeared in the cloud." 
Exodus16:11 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus16:12 ‘I have heard the bad things that the Israelites have said against me. Tell them this: “In the evening, you will eat meat. And in the morning you will eat all the bread that you want. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God.” ’" 
Exodus16:13 That evening, quails appeared. They covered all the ground around the tents. In the morning, there was dew on the ground round the tents." 
Exodus16:14 When the dew had gone, thin white pieces remained on the dry ground, there in the desert. It seemed like frost on the ground." 
Exodus16:15 When the Israelites saw these pieces, they said, ‘What is it?’ They did not understand what it was. But Moses said to them, ‘This is the bread that the Lord has given to you. It is for you to eat." 
Exodus16:16 This is what the Lord has commanded: “Each family must pick up as much as they need to eat. Pick up two litres for each person who lives in your tent.” ’ 
Exodus16:17 So the Israelites did this. Some of them picked up a lot of the food. Some of them picked up only a little food. 
Exodus16:18 But when they measured the right amount, everyone had enough to eat. The person who had picked up a lot did not have too much. And the person who had picked up only a little food still had enough to eat. Each person had picked up what he needed." 
Exodus16:19 Then Moses said to them, ‘Do not keep any of it until the morning.’" 
Exodus16:20 But some of the people did not listen to Moses. They kept part of the food until the morning. But worms appeared in it, and it began to have a bad smell. Then Moses was angry with those people." 
Exodus16:21 Each morning, everyone picked up as much food as they needed. But when the sun became hot, the food would melt away." 
Exodus16:22 On the sixth day, the Israelites picked up twice as much food. They picked up four litres for each person. Then the leaders of the people told Moses what they had done." 
Exodus16:23 Moses said to them, ‘This is what the Lord has said: “Tomorrow is a special day of rest. It is a Sabbath day, to worship the Lord. Today, you must bake any food that you want to bake. Cook the meat that you want to cook. Keep until the morning whatever food you do not eat today.” ’" 
Exodus16:24 So they kept some food until the morning, as Moses had said. This time, the food did not have a bad smell and there were no worms in it." 
Exodus16:25 Moses said, ‘Eat the food today, because this day is a Sabbath day, to worship the Lord. You will not find any food on the ground today." 
Exodus16:26 On six days of each week, you must pick food up from the ground. But on the seventh day of the week, there will not be any food on the ground. That is because the seventh day is the Sabbath day of rest.’" 
Exodus16:27 But on the seventh day, some of the people went out to pick up food. But they did not find any." 
Exodus16:28 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘The people continue to refuse to obey my commands. They refuse to do what I tell them!" 
Exodus16:29 Remember this: The Lord has given the Sabbath day to you. That is why, on the sixth day, he gives you enough food for two days. Then everyone must stay at home on the seventh day. Nobody must leave his home that day.’" 
Exodus16:30 So the people rested on the seventh day. 
Exodus16:31 The Israelites called the special food ‘ manna ’. It was white, like seeds called coriander. When they tasted the manna, it was like thin pieces of bread with honey in it." 
Exodus16:32 Moses said, ‘This is what the Lord has commanded: “Keep one bowl (an omer) of manna for people to look at in future times. They will see the bread that I fed to you in the desert, after I had brought you out of Egypt.” ’" 
Exodus16:33 So Moses said to Aaron, ‘Put an omer of manna into a jar. Then put the jar in the place where we worship the Lord. We must keep it safe, so that our descendants can see it in the future.’" 
Exodus16:34 Aaron did what the Lord had told Moses. He put the jar in the Covenant Box, to keep it safe." 
Exodus16:35 The Israelites ate the manna for 40 years, until they had finished their journey in the desert. After those 40 years, they arrived at the edge of Canaan." 
Exodus16:36 (The people used omers to measure the food. Ten omers is equal to one ephah.) 
Exodus17:1 Then all the Israelites continued to travel on from the Sin Desert. They moved from one place to another, as the Lord told them. When they arrived at Rephidim, they put up their tents there. But there was no water for the people to drink." 
Exodus17:2 Because of this, the people quarrelled with Moses. They said, ‘Give us water to drink!’ Moses said to them, ‘You should not quarrel with me! You should not try to test the Lord!’" 
Exodus17:3 But the people needed water to drink. They complained against Moses. They said, ‘You should not have brought us out of Egypt! You will kill us and our children and our animals. We will all die, because we have no water to drink.’" 
Exodus17:4 Then Moses called to the Lord for help. He said, ‘What can I do with these people? They will soon be throwing stones at me to kill me.’" 
Exodus17:5 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Take some of the leaders of the Israelites with you and go in front of the people. Take your stick in your hand. Take the stick that you used to hit the Nile River. Now go!" 
Exodus17:6 I will stand there, in front of you, by the rock at Sinai. Hit the rock with your stick, and water will come out of it. Then the people can drink.’ So Moses did this, while the leaders of the Israelites watched him." 
Exodus17:7 Moses called that place Massah and Meribah, because the Israelites quarrelled there. They tried to test the Lord to see what he would do. They said, ‘Let us see if the Lord is really with us. Will he help us, or not?’" 
Exodus17:8 At Rephidim, the Amalekites came and they fought against the Israelites." 
Exodus17:9 Moses said to Joshua, ‘Choose some of our men. Then go out with them and fight against the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill, and I will hold God's stick in my hand.’" 
Exodus17:9 Moses said to Joshua, ‘Choose some of our men. Then go out with them and fight against the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill, and I will hold God's stick in my hand.’" 
Exodus17:10 So Joshua fought against the Amalekites. He did what Moses had told him to do. Moses, Aaron and Hur went up to the top of the hill." 
Exodus17:10 So Joshua fought against the Amalekites. He did what Moses had told him to do. Moses, Aaron and Hur went up to the top of the hill." 
Exodus17:11 When Moses lifted up his hands, the Israelites were winning in the fight. But when Moses brought his hands down, the Amalekites were winning." 
Exodus17:12 Moses' hands became very tired. So Aaron and Hur put a big stone under Moses for him to sit on. Then Aaron and Hur held up Moses' hands. Aaron stood on one side of Moses, and Hur stood on the other side. They held his hands up, until sunset." 
Exodus17:13 As a result, Joshua and his men destroyed the Amalekite army in the fight." 
Exodus17:13 As a result, Joshua and his men destroyed the Amalekite army in the fight." 
Exodus17:14 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Write down what happened here in a book. Then people will remember it. Read it aloud for Joshua to hear. Say that I will completely destroy all the Amalekites. Nobody in the whole world will remember them any more.’" 
Exodus17:14 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Write down what happened here in a book. Then people will remember it. Read it aloud for Joshua to hear. Say that I will completely destroy all the Amalekites. Nobody in the whole world will remember them any more.’" 
Exodus17:15 Then Moses used big stones to build an altar. He called it ‘The Lord is my flag in war’. 
Exodus17:16 Moses said, ‘Take hold of the Lord 's flag! The Lord will always continue to fight against the Amalekites.’" 
Exodus18:1 The father of Moses' wife was called Jethro. He was the priest for the Midian people. He heard about all the things that God had done for Moses and for the Israelites. He also heard how the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt. 
Exodus18:2 Moses had sent his wife, Zipporah, back to her home. He also sent his two sons with her. Jethro took care of them." 
Exodus18:3 Moses' older son was called Gershom. Moses said about him, ‘I have become a stranger in a foreign country.’" 
Exodus18:4 The other son was called Eliezer. Moses said about him, ‘My ancestors' God gave me help. He saved me from Pharaoh, when Pharaoh wanted to kill me.’" 
Exodus18:5 Jethro came to visit Moses in the desert. He brought with him Moses' wife and two sons. The Israelites had put up their tents near the mountain of God. 
Exodus18:6 Jethro had already sent a message to Moses. He said, ‘I am coming with your wife and her two sons to see you.’" 
Exodus18:7 So Moses went out to meet his wife's father. He bent down and he kissed Jethro. They said ‘hello’ and they spoke together. Then they went into Moses' tent. 
Exodus18:8 Moses told Jethro about all the things that the Lord had done to help the Israelites. He told him what the Lord had done against Pharaoh and against the Egyptians. He told Jethro about the troubles that had happened to the Israelites during their journey. And Moses told him how the Lord had saved his people. 
Exodus18:9 When Jethro heard what Moses said, he was very happy. He realized that the Lord had saved the Israelites from the power of the Egyptians." 
Exodus18:10 Jethro said, ‘ Praise the Lord! He has saved you from the power of the Egyptians and their king, Pharaoh. Yes! He has saved the Israelites from the powerful Egyptians." 
Exodus18:11 Now I know that the Lord is greater than all other gods. He destroyed the proud Egyptians when they were cruel to his people.’ 
Exodus18:12 Then Jethro brought an animal to burn as a sacrifice to God. He also brought other sacrifices. Aaron came, with all the leaders of the Israelites. They ate a special meal together with Jethro, to worship God." 
Exodus18:13 The next day, Moses sat down to judge people who had quarrels against each other. From morning until evening, people were coming to him with their quarrels." 
Exodus18:14 Jethro saw all these things that Moses did to help the people. So he said, ‘You are trying to do too much! Why do you sit there alone to judge all these people during the whole day?’" 
Exodus18:15 Moses answered Jethro, ‘The people come to me to discover what God says." 
Exodus18:16 When they quarrel, they come to me to decide who is right. I tell them what God's laws and commands teach.’" 
Exodus18:17 Jethro replied, ‘The thing that you are doing is not good." 
Exodus18:18 You will become too tired. The people who come to you will also become tired. You cannot do all this work alone. 
Exodus18:19 Now listen to me! I will tell you what I think will help you. God will take care of you. When people have quarrels, you must continue to speak to God on their behalf." 
Exodus18:20 You are the person who must teach them God's laws and commands. You must show them how they should live and what they must do. 
Exodus18:21 But you must also choose some other clever men to help you. They must be honest men who respect God. They must not want to take money from people. Choose these men to be officers with authority over groups of the people. They will be leaders of 1,000 people, or 100 people, or 50 people, or 10 people." 
Exodus18:22 They will be able to work as judges for the people, every day. They can decide the small quarrels. But if there is a difficult problem, they must bring it to you. That will make your work easier, because they will help you with the work." 
Exodus18:23 If you agree with my idea, and if God commands you to do it, it will help you. The work will not be too hard for you. And all these people will go home happily.’" 
Exodus18:24 Moses listened to Jethro and he did everything that Jethro had said. 
Exodus18:25 Moses chose wise men from all the Israelites. He made them officers to lead 1,000 people, or 100 people, or 50 people, or 10 people." 
Exodus18:26 They worked as judges for the people at all times. If there was a difficult problem, they took it to Moses for him to decide. But they themselves decided the small problems." 
Exodus18:27 Then Moses said ‘goodbye’ to his wife's father, Jethro. Jethro returned to his own country." 
Exodus19:1 After the Israelites left Rephidim, they went into the Sinai Desert. The Israelites put up their tents in the desert, at the edge of Mount Sinai. That happened on the first day of the third month since they came out of Egypt." 
Exodus19:2  
Exodus19:3 Moses went up the mountain to speak with God. The Lord spoke to him from the mountain. He said, ‘This is what you must say to the Israelites, Jacob's descendants:" 
Exodus19:4 “You yourselves have seen what I did against the Egyptians. You know how I took care of you. I carried you carefully, like an eagle carries her babies on her wings. I brought you here to come to me." 
Exodus19:5 Now you must be careful to obey me and my covenant with you. Then you will belong to me as my special people. The whole earth belongs to me, and I have chosen you from among all the nations." 
Exodus19:6 You will be my priests who serve in my kingdom. You will be a nation that is special to me.” These are the words that you must speak to the Israelites.’ 
Exodus19:7 So Moses came back down from the mountain. He brought together all the leaders of the Israelites. He told them all the words that the Lord had commanded him. 
Exodus19:8 The people all replied together. They said, ‘We will do everything that the Lord has said.’ Then Moses repeated their answer to the Lord." 
Exodus19:9 The Lord said to Moses, ‘I will come to you in a thick cloud. Then the people will hear me when I speak to you. Then they will always believe what you say.’ Moses told the Lord the words that the people had said." 
Exodus19:10 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Go to the people. Make them ready to meet with me. Today and tomorrow they must wash their clothes." 
Exodus19:11 They must be ready on the third day. On that day, I will come down on Mount Sinai, so that all the people see me." 
Exodus19:12 Make a line around the edge of the mountain so that the people do not go across it. Say to them, “Be careful! Do not go up the mountain or even touch the edge of it. If any people or animals touch the mountain, they must die." 
Exodus19:13 Nobody must go near them. You must throw stones at them to kill them. Or you must shoot arrows at them. You must not let them live, whether they are people or animals.” The people must wait until they hear the sound of a trumpet. When they hear a long noise, then they may go up on the mountain.’" 
Exodus19:14 Then Moses came down from the mountain to speak to the people. He told them to make themselves ready for God. So the people washed their clothes. 
Exodus19:15 Then Moses said to them, ‘Prepare yourselves for the third day. While you wait, do not have sex with your wives, or anyone.’" 
Exodus19:16 On the morning of the third day, there was thunder and lightning. A thick cloud was there over the mountain. The people heard the noise of a loud trumpet. They were so afraid that their bodies were shaking." 
Exodus19:17 Then Moses led the people away from their tents to meet with God. They went and they stood at the edge of the mountain. 
Exodus19:18 Smoke covered Mount Sinai because the Lord had come down on the mountain, like a fire. The smoke rose up from the mountain, like smoke from a great fire. The whole mountain shook very much." 
Exodus19:19 The noise of the trumpet became louder and louder. Moses spoke to God and God answered him with a loud voice. 
Exodus19:20 The Lord came down onto the top of Mount Sinai. Then the Lord told Moses that he must come up to the top of the mountain. So Moses went up the mountain. 
Exodus19:21 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Go down to the people. Warn them that they must stay away from the mountain. They must not go across the line to try to see me, the Lord. If they do that, many of them will die." 
Exodus19:22 Even the priests must make themselves clean before they come near to me. If they do not obey this command, I will punish them. I am the Lord.’" 
Exodus19:23 Moses said to the Lord, ‘The people cannot come up Mount Sinai. You warned us that we must make a line round the edge of the mountain. You said that we must make the mountain a special place.’" 
Exodus19:24 The Lord replied, ‘Now go back down. Then bring Aaron up with you. But the priests and the people must stay where they are. They must not try to come up here where I am. If they come across the line, I will punish them.’" 
Exodus19:25 So Moses went down to the people. He told them what the Lord had said. 
Exodus20:1 Then God spoke all these words: 
Exodus20:2 ‘I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt, the country where you were slaves." 
Exodus20:3 You must not have any other gods except me. 
Exodus20:4 You must not make any idol for yourself. Do not make a false god in the shape of anything that is in the sky above. Do not make one in the shape of anything on the earth or in the sea. 
Exodus20:5 You must not bend down your head to any idol or worship it. I am the Lord your God and I want you to belong to me alone. I will punish children because of the bad things that their fathers have done. I will also punish their children and their grandchildren too. That is how I will punish everyone who turns against me. 
Exodus20:6 But I will truly love all those who love me. They are the people who obey my laws. I will continue to love them and their families for ever. 
Exodus20:7 You must not speak the name of the Lord your God in a wrong way. The Lord will punish anyone who speaks his name in a wrong way. 
Exodus20:8 Remember the Sabbath day. Keep it as a special day for me. 
Exodus20:9 You have six days every week to do all your work. 
Exodus20:10 But the seventh day is a Sabbath day. It is special for the Lord your God. You must not do any work on that day. Your son and your daughter must not work on that day. Your servants, male or female, must not work on that day. The foreign person who lives among you and even your animals must not work on that day." 
Exodus20:11 In six days, the Lord made the heavens, the earth and the sea. He made everything that is in them. But on the seventh day, the Lord rested. So he blessed the Sabbath day and he made it special." 
Exodus20:12 Always respect your father and your mother. Then you will live for many years in the land that the Lord your God will give to you. 
Exodus20:13 You must not murder anyone. 
Exodus20:14 You must not have sex with another person's husband or wife. 
Exodus20:15 You must not take another person's things for yourself. 
Exodus20:16 You must not say false things against your neighbour. 
Exodus20:17 You must not want to take your neighbour's house for yourself. You must not want to take his wife, or his servants, male or female. You must not want to take his ox, or his donkey, or anything else that belongs to your neighbour.’" 
Exodus20:18 The people heard the loud thunder and they saw the bright lightning. They heard the noise of the trumpet. They saw the smoke on the mountain. They were so afraid that their bodies were shaking. They would not come near. 
Exodus20:19 They said to Moses, ‘Speak to us yourself. We will listen to you. But do not let God speak to us. If he does, we will die.’" 
Exodus20:20 Moses said to the people, ‘Do not be afraid. God has come to test you. He wants you to respect him and to obey him. Then you will not do things that are wrong.’" 
Exodus20:21 So the people stayed away from the mountain. But Moses walked towards the thick, dark cloud, where God was." 
Exodus20:22 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Tell this to the Israelites: “You yourselves have heard me speak to you from heaven." 
Exodus20:23 Do not make any idols to take my place. Do not use silver or gold to make an idol that you will worship. 
Exodus20:24 Instead, use earth to make an altar for me. You must offer sacrifices to me on the altar. You may take your sheep, your goats or your cows to make burnt offerings or friendship offerings or other sacrifices to me. Make an altar like this in any place that I choose for you to worship me. In those places, I will come to you and I will bless you." 
Exodus20:25 You may also use stones from the ground to make an altar for me. But do not use any tools to cut the stones. If you use a tool on the stones, the altar will not be right for you to worship me there." 
Exodus20:26 Do not make an altar which has stairs going up to it. If you do that, someone may see under your clothes when you climb up the stairs. Then you would be ashamed.”" 
Exodus21:1 These are the laws that you must put in front of the Israelites: 
Exodus21:2 If you buy an Israelite slave, he must work for you for six years. But in the seventh year he will become a free man. He can leave you. He does not have to pay you any money." 
Exodus21:3 If he came to you alone, he is free to leave alone. If he came with a wife, she can also leave with him." 
Exodus21:4 But if the master has given a wife to the slave, she belongs to her master. If she has children, they also belong to her master. The slave must then leave by himself, without his wife and children." 
Exodus21:5 But perhaps the slave may say, “I love my master, my wife and my children. I will not go away as a free man!”" 
Exodus21:6 Then his master must take the slave to stand in front of the judges. He must lead the slave to stand beside the door, or the wood that holds the door. Then the master must push the sharp point of a tool through the slave's ear. After that, he will serve his master for all his life." 
Exodus21:7 Perhaps a man may sell his daughter to someone as a slave. She is not free to leave her master after six years, as the male slaves are." 
Exodus21:8 Her master has chosen her for himself. If she does not make her master happy, he must let her family buy her back from him. He cannot sell her to a foreign person. He has not done what he promised to her." 
Exodus21:9 If the master had chosen the girl to marry his son, he must take care of her like his own daughter." 
Exodus21:10 If the master marries another woman as well, he must still take care of the first woman. He must continue to give her food and clothes. He must not refuse to sleep with her." 
Exodus21:11 If he does not do these three things, she may leave him. She does not have to pay him any money." 
Exodus21:12 Perhaps a person may hit another person so that he dies. You must punish the murderer with death. 
Exodus21:13 But perhaps he had not decided to kill the other person. Perhaps God let it happen. Then the man should run away to a safe place that I will choose for you. 
Exodus21:14 But if he already decided to kill the other person, he is a murderer. You must punish him with death. Even if he runs to my altar as a safe place, take him away from there and kill him." 
Exodus21:15 If someone attacks his father or his mother, you must punish him with death." 
Exodus21:16 If someone catches another person to sell him, you must punish him with death. Kill him even if you find him when he has not yet sold the man that he caught." 
Exodus21:17 If someone curses his father or his mother, you must punish him with death." 
Exodus21:18 Perhaps two men argue and they fight one another. One man might hit the other man with a stone or with his fist. The man that he hit might not die but he might have to stay in bed for some time. 
Exodus21:19 After that, he may get up. He may be able to walk about outside, if he uses a stick. Then the man who hit him is not guilty. But he must pay the man that he has hurt. He must pay him for the time that he has not been able to work. He must also make sure that the man becomes completely well again." 
Exodus21:20 Perhaps a master may hit his male slave or his female slave with a stick. If the slave dies because of this, you must punish the master." 
Exodus21:21 But if the slave is still alive after one or two days, do not punish his master. The master has already lost the slave's work for that time." 
Exodus21:22 When two men fight together, perhaps one of them may hit a pregnant woman. As a result of the fight, she may give birth to her child before the right time. If the man has not hurt the woman very much, he must pay money to her husband. He must pay the amount of money that the husband demands. A judge must agree that the money for his punishment is fair." 
Exodus21:23 But if the man has hurt the woman a lot, you must punish him as he deserves. Take a life for a life," 
Exodus21:24 an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot." 
Exodus21:25 You must give him a burn for a burn, a wound for a wound, a bruise for a bruise." 
Exodus21:26 If a master hits the eye of his male slave or his female slave, he might destroy it. Then he must let the slave go away as a free person to pay for the loss of their eye." 
Exodus21:27 If he knocks out the tooth of his slave, he must also let the slave go away to pay for the loss of the tooth." 
Exodus21:28 Perhaps a bull may attack someone so that the person dies. Then you must throw stones at the bull to kill it. You must not eat the meat from that bull. But do not punish the owner of the bull. 
Exodus21:29 But perhaps that bull has attacked people before. Perhaps someone warned the owner about this, but the man did not keep the bull in a safe place. If that happens, and the bull kills someone, you must kill the bull. You must also punish the bull's owner with death." 
Exodus21:30 But if the dead person's family demands money, the man can give them money instead of his life. He must pay them what they ask for." 
Exodus21:31 This law is the same if the bull attacks someone's son or their daughter. 
Exodus21:32 If it attacks a male slave or a female slave, the man must pay 30 silver coins to the slave's master. You must also throw stones at the bull to kill it." 
Exodus21:33 If a man digs a hole in the ground, he must cover it. If he leaves a hole open, a cow or a donkey might fall into it." 
Exodus21:34 Then the man who dug the hole must pay for the loss of the animal. He must pay money to the animal's owner, but he may keep the dead animal for himself." 
Exodus21:35 If one man's bull attacks another man's bull, it may die. Then they must sell the bull that is still alive. Each man can take half of the money and half of the dead bull as well." 
Exodus21:36 But perhaps that bull has attacked other animals before. If its owner knows that and he did not do anything, he must pay for the dead bull. He should have kept his bull in a safe place. So he must pay the owner of the dead bull, but he can keep the dead animal for himself." 
Exodus22:1 Perhaps someone may take another person's cow or sheep for himself. He may kill it or he may sell it. As punishment, he must pay the owner five cows for each cow that he has taken. He must pay four sheep for each sheep that he has taken." 
Exodus22:2 Perhaps someone may catch a robber as he goes into another person's house. The owner of the house might knock down the robber so that he dies. If this happens at night, the owner of the house is not guilty of murder." 
Exodus22:3 But if the owner of the house kills the robber after sunrise, he is guilty of murder. Anyone who takes something that belongs to someone else must pay back the owner. If he cannot pay for everything that he has taken, he must become a slave. The owner will receive the money that someone has paid for the slave." 
Exodus22:4 You may find an animal that someone has taken for himself. If the animal is still alive, the person who took it must pay back to the owner twice its value. He must do this, whether it was a cow, a donkey, or a sheep." 
Exodus22:5 A man's animals might go into someone else's field or vineyard to eat what is growing there. Then the owner of those animals must pay back the value of what they have eaten. He must give his best grain and his best grapes to pay back the other man. 
Exodus22:6 Someone might light a fire in his field to burn thorn bushes. But the fire might grow and it might burn the crops in another farmer's field. It may destroy the crops that are growing there or the grain that is ready for harvest. It might even destroy the whole field. Then the person who lit the fire must pay the farmer for the crops that the fire has destroyed. 
Exodus22:7 Perhaps you may give some of your money or your valuable things to your neighbour. You may ask your neighbour to keep them safe for you. But a robber might take those things from your neighbour's house. If you catch the robber, he must pay back twice the value of the things that he took." 
Exodus22:8 But if you do not find the robber, you must take your neighbour to stand in front of the judges. They must decide if your neighbour has taken your things for himself." 
Exodus22:9 Perhaps two people both say that something belongs to them. They may argue about a cow, a donkey, a sheep, some clothes or anything else that they have lost. Then both of them must go to stand in front of the judges. The judges will decide which of them is guilty. The guilty person must pay back twice the value of the thing to the other person." 
Exodus22:10 Perhaps you may ask your neighbour to keep one of your animals safe for you. It may be a donkey, a cow, a sheep or any other animal that belongs to you. Then the animal may die, or something may hurt it. Or perhaps a robber takes it for himself. If nobody has seen what really happened, you must do this:" 
Exodus22:11 Your neighbour must make a serious promise to the Lord. He must promise that he did not take your animal for himself, or hurt it. Then you must accept what he has said. Do not ask your neighbour to pay you any money." 
Exodus22:12 But if a robber did take the animal from your neighbour, then your neighbour must pay you for it." 
Exodus22:13 But perhaps a wild animal attacked it. Then your neighbour must show the pieces of your animal that are left. Then he will not have to pay you for the loss of your animal. 
Exodus22:14 Your neighbour might lend one of his animals to you to do some work. Something bad might happen to the animal while its owner is not with it. It might die, or something might hurt it. Then you must pay your neighbour for the loss of the animal." 
Exodus22:15 But if the owner is with his animal when something bad happens to it, you do not have to pay anything. And if you already paid your neighbour some money to use his animal, that will be enough to pay him for the loss." 
Exodus22:16 Perhaps a man may meet a young girl who has not had sex with any man before. He might deceive her to have sex with her. If she has not yet promised to marry another man, he must marry her. He must give the right gifts to her parents." 
Exodus22:17 Her father might refuse to give her to the man to be his wife. But the man must still give the right gifts for a girl who is not married. 
Exodus22:18 You must punish with death any woman who is a magician. 
Exodus22:19 You must punish with death anyone who has sex with an animal. 
Exodus22:20 You must completely destroy anyone who offers a sacrifice to a false god. You must only offer sacrifices to the Lord. 
Exodus22:21 Never be cruel to a foreign person or give them trouble. Remember that you yourselves lived in Egypt as foreigners. 
Exodus22:22 Never give trouble to any widow or to any children who have no family. 
Exodus22:23 If you are cruel to them, I will hear them when they call out to me for help." 
Exodus22:24 I will be very angry with you. I will kill you in war. Your wives will become widows. Your children will no longer have any family. 
Exodus22:25 You may lend money to any of my people who need help. But do not ask them to pay back more money than you have lent to them. That is what traders in money do. 
Exodus22:26 You may take someone's coat as a guarantee that he will pay you back. But you must always return his coat to him before sunset. 
Exodus22:27 He needs his coat to keep him warm at night. It is the only warm thing that he has to sleep in. If you keep his coat, I will hear him when he calls out to me for help. And I will help him, because I am very kind to people." 
Exodus22:28 Never insult God. Never curse anyone who is a leader of your people. 
Exodus22:29 Do not refuse to offer your grain, your wine or your olive oil to me. You must give your firstborn sons to me." 
Exodus22:30 Do the same thing with your cows and your sheep. Let them stay with their mothers for seven days. But on the eighth day, you must give them to me." 
Exodus22:31 You must live as my special people. So do not eat any meat from your animals that wild animals have killed. Instead, you must give it as food to the dogs." 
Exodus23:1 Do not make false reports. Do not tell lies in court to help wicked people. 
Exodus23:2 Do not join a group of bad people to do evil things. When you speak in court, tell the truth so that the judges will decide what is right. Do not tell lies to agree with what everyone else says." 
Exodus23:3 Do not speak on behalf of a poor man only because you like him. 
Exodus23:4 Perhaps you may find your enemy's cow or his donkey when he has lost it. If so, you must give it back to him." 
Exodus23:5 Perhaps you may see your enemy's donkey when it is carrying a heavy load. If the donkey has fallen down, do not refuse to give help. Do not leave the donkey there." 
Exodus23:6 Always do what is right for your poor people when they stand in front of a judge. 
Exodus23:7 Do not help anyone to use lies to accuse another person. Never punish anyone with death if they are not guilty. I will never say that a wicked person is not guilty. 
Exodus23:8 Do not accept a bribe. A bribe will hide the truth even from honest people. It can make good people tell lies. 
Exodus23:9 Do not be cruel to a foreign person who lives among you. You yourselves know what that feels like. Remember that you lived in Egypt as foreigners. 
Exodus23:10 You must plant seed in your fields for six years. Then you can bring your crops home at harvest time. 
Exodus23:11 But in the seventh year, you must let your fields lie empty. Do not dig them and do not plant anything in them. Then poor people among you can eat the food that they find in your fields. After that, the wild animals can eat any food that still remains. Do the same thing with your vineyards and your fields of olive trees." 
Exodus23:12 Do your work for six days each week, but do not work on the seventh day. Then your oxen and your donkeys will have time to rest. Any slave who was born in your home and any foreigner who works for you may also have time to rest. That will help them to be strong." 
Exodus23:13 Be careful to obey everything that I have told you. Do not pray to other gods for help. Do not even speak about them. 
Exodus23:14 Three times each year, you must eat a feast to give me honour." 
Exodus23:15 Eat the Feast of Flat Bread every year. For seven days, you must eat bread that you have made without any yeast. I have commanded you to do this. Do it at the right time during the month of Abib. It was in that month that you came out of Egypt. Nobody must come to me without an offering." 
Exodus23:16 Eat the Feast of Harvest every year. Offer to me the first crops that you bring from your fields. At the end of each year, eat the Feast of Final Harvest. Do that when you have finished bringing in all of your crops from the fields." 
Exodus23:17 Three times each year, all your men must come to worship the Almighty Lord." 
Exodus23:18 When you kill an animal to offer it to me as a sacrifice, do not offer it with bread that has yeast in it. Be sure to burn all the fat of the animal on the same day. Do not keep any of it until the next morning." 
Exodus23:19 When you cut the first crops from your fields, bring the best food to the house of the Lord your God. Do not cook a young goat in its mother's milk." 
Exodus23:20 Look! I will send an angel to lead you on your journey. He will keep you safe. He will take you to the place that I have prepared for you. 
Exodus23:21 Be careful to obey him. Listen to what he says to you. Do not turn against him. If you do that, he will not forgive you. I have given him my authority." 
Exodus23:22 So be careful to obey him. Do everything that I tell you. Then I will be the enemy of your enemies. I will fight against anyone who fights against you. 
Exodus23:23 My angel will go in front of you. He will bring you into the land of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hivites and the Jebusites. I will destroy them completely." 
Exodus23:24 Do not worship their gods. Do not serve them. Do not copy the evil things that these people do. Destroy their idols and break their special stones into pieces. 
Exodus23:25 You must serve only me, the Lord your God. Then I will bless your food and your water. I will remove illness from among you." 
Exodus23:26 Your women will safely give birth to babies. They will all be able to have children. Everyone will live a long life. 
Exodus23:27 I will cause all the nations that you meet to be afraid. All the people who attack you will become confused. I will cause all your enemies to turn round and run away from you. 
Exodus23:28 I will send great fear on the people as you move into the land. That will chase out the Hivites, the Canaanites and the Hittites." 
Exodus23:29 But I will not chase out those people in one year. If I did that, the country would become empty of people. Then there would be many wild animals that would cause trouble to you." 
Exodus23:30 I will remove the people slowly, one group at a time. As you become strong, you will take the land as your own home." 
Exodus23:31 I will decide where the borders of your land will be. You will have the land from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea, and from the desert to the Euphrates River. I will put the people who live there under your power. As you move into the land, you will chase those people out." 
Exodus23:32 Do not make any agreement with them or with their gods. 
Exodus23:33 Do not let them live in your land. They would cause you to do bad things against me. If you serve their gods, you will become like their prisoners.’" 
Exodus24:1 Then God said to Moses, ‘Come up to me, the Lord. Come with Aaron, Nadab, Abihu and 70 of the leaders of Israel. Worship me, but do not come near." 
Exodus24:2 Only Moses can come near to me, but not the other men. The people must not come up the mountain with him.’" 
Exodus24:3 Moses went and he told the people all the Lord 's commands and his teaching. The people answered together, ‘We will do everything that the Lord has told us.’" 
Exodus24:4 Then Moses wrote down everything that the Lord had said. Early the next morning, Moses built an altar at the bottom of the mountain. Then he put up 12 stone pillars. Each pillar stood there for one of Israel's 12 tribes." 
Exodus24:5 Moses sent young Israelite men to kill animals there, as burnt offerings to the Lord. They also killed young bulls as friendship offerings to the Lord." 
Exodus24:6 Moses took half of the blood of these animals and he put it into some bowls. He splashed the other half of the blood over the altar. 
Exodus24:7 Then he took the Book of God's Covenant and he read it to the people. They replied, ‘We will do everything that the Lord has told us. We will obey his commands.’" 
Exodus24:8 Then Moses used the blood in the bowls to splash on the people. He said, ‘This blood shows that you accept the covenant that the Lord has made with you. You agree to obey the rules of his covenant.’" 
Exodus24:9 Then Moses and Aaron, Nadab, Abihu and the 70 Israelite leaders went up the mountain." 
Exodus24:10 They saw the God of Israel there. Under his feet was something like a jewel called sapphire. It was as bright as a clear blue sky. 
Exodus24:11 God did not hurt those Israelite leaders. They saw God. They ate a meal and they drank together. 
Exodus24:12 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Come up to me on the mountain. Stay here. I will give you the flat stones with my Law on them. I have written on them my Law and my commands, so that you can teach them to the people.’" 
Exodus24:13 So Moses went up the mountain of God. His servant Joshua went with him. 
Exodus24:13 So Moses went up the mountain of God. His servant Joshua went with him. 
Exodus24:14 Moses said to the leaders, ‘Wait here for us. We will come back to you. Aaron and Hur are here with you. If you have any arguments, they can decide who is right.’" 
Exodus24:15 When Moses went up the mountain, the cloud covered it." 
Exodus24:16 The Lord 's bright glory appeared on Mount Sinai. The cloud covered the mountain for six days. On the seventh day, the Lord called out to Moses from inside the cloud." 
Exodus24:17 The people could see the Lord 's bright glory. To them, it looked like a fire that was burning the top of the mountain." 
Exodus24:18 Moses went up the mountain and he went into the cloud. He stayed on the mountain for 40 days and 40 nights. 
Exodus25:1 The Lord said to Moses: 
Exodus25:2 ‘Tell the Israelites to bring me an offering. Every person who wants to give can make a gift to me. You must receive their gifts. 
Exodus25:3 These are the gifts that you must receive from the people as an offering: gold, silver and bronze;" 
Exodus25:4 blue, purple and red material; good linen and goat's hair;" 
Exodus25:5 red leather from sheep's skins and other good leather; wood from acacia trees; 
Exodus25:6 olive oil for the lamps; spices for the special oil and for incense with a nice smell; 
Exodus25:7 onyx and other jewels to fix on the priest's ephod and his breastpiece. 
Exodus25:8 You must tell the Israelites to make a special place to be my home. Then I will live among them. 
Exodus25:9 I will show you how to make this tabernacle and everything that you will put inside it. But you must make everything in the way that I tell you. 
Exodus25:10 The Israelites must use acacia wood to make a big box. It must be 1 metre long, 75 centimetres wide and 75 centimetres high." 
Exodus25:11 Cover the wood with gold, both inside and outside. Build up the edges of the box with gold." 
Exodus25:12 Make four gold rings and fix them to the four feet of the box. Fix two rings on one side and two rings on the other side. 
Exodus25:13 Then use acacia wood to make two poles. Cover them with gold too. 
Exodus25:14 Push the poles through the rings on the sides of the box. You will use the poles to carry the box. 
Exodus25:15 The poles must remain along the side of the box, in the rings. Never remove them." 
Exodus25:16 Then put into the box the two flat stones with the words of the covenant on them. I will give those to you. 
Exodus25:17 Use pure gold to make a lid for the box. Make the lid 1 metre long and 75 centimetres wide. 
Exodus25:18 Use gold to make images of two cherubs. Use a hammer to make them the right shape. They will stand at the two ends of the lid. 
Exodus25:19 One cherub will stand at one end of the lid, and one cherub will stand at the other end. The two cherubs and the lid must be one piece of gold." 
Exodus25:20 The cherubs must look towards each other and watch over the lid. Their wings must touch each other over the top of the lid. 
Exodus25:21 Then put the lid on the top of the box. Put the flat stones with the words of the covenant into the box. I will give those to you. 
Exodus25:22 I will meet with you there, between the two cherubs that are above the lid. They watch over the Covenant Box. In that place I will give you all my commands for the Israelites." 
Exodus25:23 Use acacia wood to make a table. It must be one metre long, 50 centimetres wide and 75 centimetres high." 
Exodus25:24 Cover the wood with gold. Build up the edges of the table with gold. 
Exodus25:25 Also, fix an extra piece of wood around its edge. It must be 7 centimetres wide. Build up the edges of this piece with gold." 
Exodus25:26 Make four gold rings for the table. Fix them to the four corners, one beside each leg of the table." 
Exodus25:27 The rings must be near to the extra piece of wood. They will hold the poles that you will use to carry the table. 
Exodus25:28 Use acacia wood to make the poles. Cover them with gold. Use the poles to carry the table. 
Exodus25:29 Use pure gold to make plates, big spoons, jars and bowls. You will use these things to pour out drink offerings." 
Exodus25:30 Put the Lord 's special bread on this table. The bread must always be there for me. 
Exodus25:31 Use one piece of pure gold to make a lampstand. Use a hammer to make it the right shape. Use the gold to make its base, its middle pole and the cups to hold the oil. The cups will be like open flowers and closed flowers." 
Exodus25:32 Make six branches on the lampstand, three branches on each side of the middle pole." 
Exodus25:33 Put three cups in the shape of almond flowers and their leaves on each branch. Each of the six branches of the lampstand will have three cups like that. 
Exodus25:34 On the lampstand itself, put four cups in the shape of almond flowers and their leaves." 
Exodus25:35 Put one closed flower under the first pair of branches. Put a second closed flower under the second pair of branches. Put the third closed flower under the third pair of branches. So there will be three closed flowers for the six branches on the lampstand. 
Exodus25:36 You must make the flowers and the branches from the same piece of pure gold as the lampstand. Use a hammer to make the gold into the right shape. 
Exodus25:37 Then make seven lamps and fix them to the lampstand. Fix them so that they light the space in front of the lampstand. 
Exodus25:38 Also use pure gold to make small tools and dishes to take care of the lamps. 
Exodus25:39 Use 34 kilograms of pure gold to make the lampstand and all the tools to take care of it. 
Exodus25:40 Be careful to make all these things like the plan that I have shown you on the mountain. 
Exodus26:1 Make the tabernacle with ten curtains of very good linen. Also use blue, purple and red material. Tell a worker to use special skills to make pictures of cherubs on the curtains." 
Exodus26:2 All the curtains must be the same size: 12 metres long and 2 metres wide. 
Exodus26:3 Join five of the curtains together. Do the same thing with the other five curtains. 
Exodus26:4 Fix rings of blue material along the edge of the last curtain in each set of five curtains. 
Exodus26:5 Put 50 rings on the edge of the first set. Put 50 rings on the edge of the other set. Do this so that the rings on one curtain are opposite to the rings on the other curtain. 
Exodus26:6 Then use 50 small gold hooks to join the curtains together. In this way, a single piece of curtain will make the whole tabernacle." 
Exodus26:7 Use goats' hair to make 11 curtains. They will cover the tabernacle, like a tent." 
Exodus26:8 All the curtains must be the same size: 13.5 metres long and 2 metres wide. 
Exodus26:9 Join five of the curtains together to make one set. Fix the other six curtains together to make a second set. Turn the sixth curtain of this set over itself to cover the entrance of the tent. 
Exodus26:10 Use material to make 50 rings along the edge of the end curtain in each set. 
Exodus26:11 Then make 50 bronze hooks. Use them to join the two sets of curtains together so that it makes a single tent. 
Exodus26:12 The curtains for the tent will be longer than the curtains for the tabernacle. The extra half of the curtain for the tent will hang at the back of the tabernacle. 
Exodus26:13 The curtains of the tent will be half a metre longer on both sides. The extra material will hang over each side of the tabernacle to cover it completely. 
Exodus26:14 Use red leather from sheep's skins to cover the tent. Then use another kind of good leather to cover the red leather. 
Exodus26:15 Use acacia wood to make boards to hold up the tabernacle. 
Exodus26:16 Each board must be 4 metres high and 65 centimetres wide. 
Exodus26:17 Make two wooden pegs on each board, beside each other. Make all the boards of the tabernacle like this." 
Exodus26:18 Make 20 boards for the south side of the tabernacle. 
Exodus26:19 Then use silver to make 40 heavy bases to hold up the boards. Two bases will hold up each board. The pegs on the boards will fit into holes in the bases. 
Exodus26:20 Also make 20 boards for the north side of the tabernacle. 
Exodus26:21 Make 40 silver bases, two bases under each board." 
Exodus26:22 Make six boards for the west side, at the back of the tabernacle." 
Exodus26:23 Then make two boards for the corners at the back of the tabernacle. 
Exodus26:24 You must fix the two boards together, from the bottom to the top. Use a ring to fix them together at the top. Make both the corners in the same way." 
Exodus26:25 So there will be eight boards at the back of the tabernacle and 16 silver bases, two bases under each board." 
Exodus26:26 You must also use acacia wood to make bars to fix across the boards. Make five bars for the south side of the tabernacle," 
Exodus26:27 five bars for the north side, and five bars for the west side at the back of the tabernacle." 
Exodus26:28 The bar that goes across the centre of the boards must reach from one end of the tabernacle to the other end. 
Exodus26:29 Use gold to cover the boards and to make rings for the boards. These rings will hold the bars in place across the boards. Also cover the wooden bars with gold. 
Exodus26:30 Make the tabernacle the same as the plan that I showed to you on the mountain. 
Exodus26:31 Use blue, purple and red material and good linen to make a special curtain. A worker must use special skills to make pictures of cherubs on it." 
Exodus26:32 Use gold rings to hang the curtain from four poles of acacia wood. Cover these poles with gold. Then fix them on four silver bases. 
Exodus26:33 Hang the top of the curtain from the rings. Put the Covenant Box behind the curtain, in the Most Holy Place. The curtain will hang between the Most Holy Place and the Holy Place so that they are separate." 
Exodus26:34 Put the special lid on the Covenant Box, in the Most Holy Place." 
Exodus26:35 Put the special table in the Holy Place, outside the curtain. It will be on the north side of the tabernacle. Put the lampstand opposite the table, on the south side." 
Exodus26:36 Make a curtain for the entrance of the tent. Use blue, purple and red material and good linen to make it. A worker must use special skills to make it so that it looks beautiful." 
Exodus26:37 Use acacia wood to make five poles. Cover them with gold. Fix gold rings to the poles. Use bronze to make five bases to hold up the poles. Then hang the curtain from the rings on the poles. 
Exodus27:1 Use acacia wood to make an altar. It must be square, 2.2 metres long and 2.2 metres wide. It must be 1.3 metres high." 
Exodus27:2 Make four horns, one at each corner of the altar. The horns and the altar itself must be one piece of work. Then cover the whole altar with bronze." 
Exodus27:3 Make all the tools for the altar with bronze. Make pots to remove the ashes, spades and bowls. Make forks for the meat. Make dishes to carry the fire." 
Exodus27:4 Use bronze to make a square net and rings at each corner. 
Exodus27:5 Fix this net inside the altar, in the middle, between the top of the altar and the ground." 
Exodus27:6 Use acacia wood to make poles for the altar. Cover them with bronze. 
Exodus27:7 You must put the poles through the rings when you carry the altar. There will be a pole on each of two sides of the altar. 
Exodus27:8 Use boards to make the altar, so that it is empty inside. You must make it in the way that the Lord showed you on the mountain." 
Exodus27:9 Make a yard around the tent of the tabernacle. The south side must be 45 metres long. It will have curtains that are made of good linen. 
Exodus27:10 Make 20 poles and 20 bronze bases to hold the poles. Use silver to make hooks and sticks to hold the curtains. 
Exodus27:11 The north side of the yard must also be 45 metres long. It will also have 20 poles with their bronze bases, as well as their silver hooks and sticks." 
Exodus27:12 The west end of the yard must be 23 metres long. Make curtains for it, with ten poles and their bronze bases." 
Exodus27:13 The entrance to the yard is at its east end. That end must also be 23 metres long. 
Exodus27:14 There will be 7 metres of curtain on each side of the entrance. There will be three poles with their bases to hold the curtains on each side. 
Exodus27:15  
Exodus27:16 Make a curtain 9 metres wide for the entrance to the yard. Make it out of blue, purple and red material, as well as good linen. Choose a worker who can use special skills to make the curtain look beautiful. Make four poles and their bases to hold the curtain at the entrance." 
Exodus27:17 All the poles around the yard must have bronze bases. They will also have silver hooks and sticks to hold the curtains. 
Exodus27:18 The yard will be 45 metres long and 23 metres wide. Use good linen to make the curtains. They must be 2¼ metres high on the bronze bases. 
Exodus27:19 Use bronze to make all the tools that you will use in the tabernacle. Also use bronze to make the pegs that fix the tent of the tabernacle to the ground. And make bronze pegs to fix the curtain around the yard to the ground. 
Exodus27:20 Command the Israelites to bring you pure oil from fresh olives. You will use this oil for the lamps. The lamps must give light all the time. 
Exodus27:21 Aaron and his sons must make sure that the lamps always give light from evening until morning. The lampstand will be in the Tent of Meeting, outside the curtain that hangs in front of the Covenant Box. The lamps must always give light there, where the Lord is. This will always be a rule for the Israelites, now and in the future." 
Exodus28:1 Bring your brother Aaron and his sons from among the other Israelites. They will serve me as my priests. That will be Aaron and his sons, Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
Exodus28:2 Make special clothes for Aaron. They will be beautiful clothes to show that he deserves honour. 
Exodus28:3 I have given special skills to some workers so that they know how to make beautiful things. Tell them to make clothes for Aaron. They will show that I have chosen him to serve me as my priest. 
Exodus28:4 These are the clothes that they must make: a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, a long shirt, a linen hat, and a long belt of cloth. They must make these special clothes for your brother Aaron and for his sons. Then Aaron and his sons will serve me as my priests." 
Exodus28:5 The workers who have special skills must use beautiful material that is gold, blue, purple and red, as well as good linen." 
Exodus28:6 Use gold, blue, purple and red material, as well as good linen, to make the ephod. A worker should use special skills to make it so that it looks beautiful." 
Exodus28:7 Fix pieces of cloth on its two edges. These will go over the priest's shoulders to join the front and the back parts of the ephod. 
Exodus28:8 Make a beautiful belt to tie around the ephod. The belt and the ephod must be one piece of work. Use the same materials to make both of them: gold, blue, purple and red material, and good linen." 
Exodus28:9 Take two onyx stones and write on them with a sharp tool. Write the names of the sons of Israel. 
Exodus28:10 Begin with the name of the oldest son and finish with the name of the youngest son. Write six names on one stone and six names on the other stone. 
Exodus28:11 A worker who has skill to cut letters into metal must do this work. Then fix the stones into beautiful gold around their edges. 
Exodus28:12 Fix the two stones on the shoulder pieces of the ephod so that they show the names of the 12 sons of Israel. Aaron will carry the names on his shoulders as he serves the Lord. Then the Lord will remember to bless his people. 
Exodus28:13 Use gold to make beautiful pieces to hold the stones. 
Exodus28:14 And use pure gold to make two thin chains, like strings. Fix these chains to the gold pieces that hold the onyx stones." 
Exodus28:15 A worker must use special skills to make a breastpiece so that it looks beautiful. The breastpiece will help the priest to know what God is saying. Make it like the ephod. Use gold, blue, purple and red material, and good linen to make it." 
Exodus28:16 Bend a piece of cloth over to make a square pocket, 22 centimetres long and 22 centimetres wide." 
Exodus28:17 Then fix four rows of jewels on it. These are the names of the jewels: a ruby, a topaz and a beryl in the first row;" 
Exodus28:18 a turquoise, a sapphire and an emerald in the second row;" 
Exodus28:19 a jacinth, an agate and an amethyst in the third row;" 
Exodus28:20 a chrysolite, an onyx and a jasper in the fourth row. Fix each jewel into beautiful gold around its edges." 
Exodus28:21 There will be 12 jewels, one jewel for each of Israel's sons. You must carefully write one tribe's name on each jewel with a sharp tool." 
Exodus28:22 Use pure gold to make two thin chains like strings. These will fix the breastpiece to the ephod. 
Exodus28:23 Make two gold rings and fix them to the two top corners of the breastpiece. 
Exodus28:24 Fix the two gold chains to the two rings on the corners of the breastpiece. 
Exodus28:25 Fix the other ends of the two chains to the shoulder pieces of the ephod, in the front. Join them to the gold pieces that hold the onyx stones." 
Exodus28:26 Make two gold rings and fix them to the two bottom corners of the breastpiece. Put them on its inside edge, so that they are next to the ephod." 
Exodus28:27 Make two more gold rings. Fix them to the bottom edge of the shoulder pieces, on the front of the ephod. Put them just above the ephod's belt." 
Exodus28:28 Use a string of blue material to tie the rings on the breastpiece to the rings on the ephod. Fix them together above the ephod's belt. Then the breastpiece and the belt will not become separate. 
Exodus28:29 When Aaron goes into the Holy Place, he will wear the breastpiece. So he will carry the names of Israel's sons over his heart. And the Lord will always remember to bless the Israelites." 
Exodus28:30 Put the Urim and Thummim in the pocket of the breastpiece. They will also be over Aaron's heart when he goes in there to serve the Lord. The Urim and Thummim will always be there to show Aaron what the Lord is saying about the Israelites. He will carry this help over his heart all the time. 
Exodus28:31 Use only blue cloth to make the robe for the ephod. 
Exodus28:32 Make a hole in the top of the robe, in the middle. Make an edge around this hole, for the priest's head to go through. Make the edge so that it will not tear." 
Exodus28:33 Use blue, purple and red material to make pictures of pomegranates. Also make gold bells. The pomegranates and the bells will go all around the bottom edge of the robe." 
Exodus28:34 There will be a bell then a pomegranate, another bell then a pomegranate, all around the edge of the robe." 
Exodus28:35 Aaron must wear the robe when he is serving the Lord. The bells will make a noise when he goes into the Holy Place to serve the Lord. They will also make a sound when he comes out. Then he will not die. 
Exodus28:36 Use pure gold to make a thin plate and write on it carefully with a sharp tool. Write this sign on it: “ Holy to the Lord ”. 
Exodus28:37 Fix a blue string to the plate and tie it to the front of the linen hat. 
Exodus28:38 Aaron will always wear this sign on the front of his head. When the Israelites bring gifts to God, they may be guilty of sins. When Aaron has this sign on his head, he himself will be guilty instead of them. Then the Lord will accept the gifts that his people offer to him." 
Exodus28:39 Use good linen to make the long shirt and the hat for the priest. A worker with special skills must make the long belt, so that it looks beautiful." 
Exodus28:40 Make shirts, belts and hats for Aaron's sons. These clothes must be beautiful to give them honour." 
Exodus28:41 Dress your brother Aaron and his sons with these clothes. Then pour oil on their heads to show that they have my authority. Make them separate from the other Israelites as my holy servants. They will serve me as my priests. 
Exodus28:42 Use good linen to make trousers that will cover the lower parts of their bodies. 
Exodus28:43 Aaron and his sons must wear them when they go into the Tent of Meeting. They must also wear them when they go near to the altar to serve me in the Holy Place. Then they will not be guilty. I will not punish them with death. This will always be a rule for Aaron and his descendants. 
Exodus29:1 When you make the priests God's special servants, do it in this way: Take a young bull and two male sheep. They must not have anything wrong with them." 
Exodus29:2 Use good flour from wheat to make three kinds of bread, with no yeast in it. Mix olive oil with some of the flour before you cook it. Cook some of the flour without any oil in it. And cook some flour to make biscuits that you then put oil on." 
Exodus29:3 Put the bread and the biscuits into a basket. Bring them to the Tent of Meeting with the bull and the two sheep. 
Exodus29:4 Then bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. Use water to wash them there and make them clean. 
Exodus29:5 Then take the special clothes. Dress Aaron in the shirt, the robe, the ephod and the breastpiece. Tie the ephod on him with its special belt." 
Exodus29:6 Put the linen hat on Aaron's head. Fix the special gold sign to the hat. 
Exodus29:7 Take the special olive oil. Pour it on his head to show that God has chosen him to be his servant. 
Exodus29:8 Bring Aaron's sons and dress them in their special shirts. 
Exodus29:9 Put the cloth hats on their heads. Tie the long cloth belts around Aaron and on his sons. These men and their descendants will always be priests. That is a law that continues for ever. That is how you must make Aaron and his sons God's special servants. 
Exodus29:10 Bring the bull to the front of the Tent of Meeting. Aaron and his sons must put their hands on the bull's head. 
Exodus29:11 Then kill the animal as an offering to the Lord, at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting." 
Exodus29:12 Take some of the bull's blood. Use your finger to put some of it on the horns of the altar. Pour the blood that remains on the ground around the altar. 
Exodus29:13 Take all the fat that is round the inside parts of the animal. Take the best part of the liver. Take both the kidneys with the fat that is round them. Burn all these things on the altar. 
Exodus29:14 But burn the rest of the bull's body outside the camp, with its skin and the food in its stomach. It is an offering to make the priests clean from their sins." 
Exodus29:15 Take one of the male sheep. Aaron and his sons must put their hands on its head. 
Exodus29:16 Kill the sheep and take its blood to the altar. Throw some of the blood onto every side of the altar. 
Exodus29:17 Cut the sheep into pieces. Wash its inside parts and its legs. Then put them together with its head and the other pieces. 
Exodus29:18 Completely burn the whole sheep on the altar. It is a burnt offering to the Lord. Its smell pleases him. 
Exodus29:19 Take the second male sheep. Aaron and his sons must put their hands on its head. 
Exodus29:20 Kill the sheep. Put some of its blood on Aaron's right ear, on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot. Do the same thing to each of his sons. Then throw some of the sheep's blood onto every side of the altar." 
Exodus29:21 Mix together some of the blood on the altar and some of the special oil. Splash this onto Aaron and onto his clothes. Splash it also onto his sons and onto their clothes. Then Aaron and his sons and their clothes will be holy. 
Exodus29:22 Take all the fat from this male sheep. Take its fat tail, the fat around its inside parts and the best part of the liver. Take the two kidneys with the fat that is round them. Also take the top part of its right leg. (This is the sheep that makes Aaron and his sons special servants of God.)" 
Exodus29:23 Take one piece of each kind of flat bread out of the basket. Take some bread that has no oil in it, some bread with oil in it and one biscuit. These are an offering to the Lord." 
Exodus29:24 Put all these things in the hands of Aaron and his sons. Then lift these things up to the Lord as an offering to him. 
Exodus29:25 Then take them from Aaron and his sons and burn them on the altar. It is a burnt offering to the Lord. Its smell pleases him. 
Exodus29:26 Take the meat from the ribs of the sheep that makes Aaron God's special servant. Lift it up to the Lord as an offering to him. Then you may eat this meat from the sheep. 
Exodus29:27 You must keep separate this meat from the sheep's ribs, as well as the top part of its right leg. Those are the pieces that you lifted up to the Lord as an offering to him. Those pieces belong to Aaron and his sons." 
Exodus29:28 In the future, when the Israelites bring a peace offering to the Lord, these pieces will belong to Aaron and his descendants. This will always be the regular gift from the Israelites to the priests. That is the law that will continue for ever. It is the gift that the Israelites must bring to the Lord." 
Exodus29:29 Aaron's special clothes will belong to his descendants after he dies. When they too become God's special servants as his priests, they will wear them." 
Exodus29:30 After Aaron's death, his son who becomes priest will first take seven days to serve the Lord in the tabernacle. The new priest must wear the special clothes in the Holy Place for those seven days." 
Exodus29:31 Take the male sheep that makes Aaron God's special servant. Cook its meat in a holy place in the yard of the tabernacle. 
Exodus29:32 Aaron and his sons must eat this meat and the bread that was in the basket. They must do this at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. 
Exodus29:33 That meat was part of the sacrifice which made them clean from their sins. It made them God's special servants as his priests. No other person may eat those things, because they are holy." 
Exodus29:34 But if any of the meat from the offerings remains until the morning, you must burn it. Also burn any bread that remains. You must not eat it, because it is holy." 
Exodus29:35 Do everything that I have commanded you, to make Aaron and his sons my special servants. Take seven days to do this." 
Exodus29:36 Kill a bull each day, as a sacrifice that makes people clean from their sins. Also make the altar clean and pure. Pour oil over it to make it holy for me." 
Exodus29:37 Do this to the altar for seven days to make it pure. Then it will be completely holy. Anything that touches the altar will become holy too. 
Exodus29:38 You must offer a regular gift on the altar each day. This offering must be two lambs that are one year old. 
Exodus29:39 Offer one lamb in the morning and the other lamb in the evening. 
Exodus29:40 With the first lamb, offer two litres of good flour. Mix the flour with one litre of olive oil. Also offer one litre of wine as a drink offering." 
Exodus29:41 Kill the other lamb in the evening. Offer it with the same gifts of food and drink as in the morning. It is a burnt offering to the Lord. Its smell pleases him. 
Exodus29:42 You and your descendants must continue to make this burnt offering as a regular offering to me, the Lord. Offer it to me at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. I will meet with you there and I will speak to you." 
Exodus29:43 I will meet with the Israelites there. My bright glory will make it a holy place. 
Exodus29:44 In that way I will make the Tent of Meeting and its altar a special, holy place. Aaron and his sons will become my special servants. They will serve me as my priests." 
Exodus29:45 I will live among the Israelites and I will be their God. 
Exodus29:46 They will know that I am the Lord their God. I brought them out of Egypt so that I could live among them. I am the Lord their God. 
Exodus30:1 Use acacia wood to make an altar so that you can burn incense on it. 
Exodus30:2 The altar must be square. Make it 45 centimetres long, 45 centimetres wide and 90 centimetres high. The altar's horns must be part of it, made from one piece of wood." 
Exodus30:3 Cover all the altar with gold: its top, its sides and the horns. Build up an edge of gold around the four sides." 
Exodus30:4 Make two gold rings for the altar. Fix them below the gold edge on two opposite sides. They will hold the poles for you to carry the altar. 
Exodus30:5 Use acacia wood to make the poles. Cover them with gold. 
Exodus30:6 Put the altar for incense in the Holy Place in the tabernacle. Put it in front of the curtain that hides the Covenant Box. It will be near the special lid that covers the Covenant Box. That is the place where I will meet with you. 
Exodus30:7 Every morning, Aaron must burn sweet incense on this altar. He must do this when he goes in to take care of the lamps." 
Exodus30:8 He must burn incense again when he lights the lamps in the evening. Incense must burn there as an offering to the Lord every day from now on. 
Exodus30:9 Only offer proper incense on this altar. Do not offer any burnt offerings or grain offerings on it. And do not pour any drink offerings on it. 
Exodus30:10 Once every year, Aaron must make the altar clean and pure. He must put some of the blood from the sin offering on the horns of the altar. A priest must do this every year from now on. The altar is holy because it belongs to me, the Lord.’" 
Exodus30:11 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus30:12 ‘When you count the number of the Israelites, each person must pay the Lord a price for his life. Everyone must do this at the time when you count them. Then no disease will hurt them as you count them." 
Exodus30:13 Each person that you count must give six grams of silver. That is the proper weight that they use in the holy place. The silver is an offering to the Lord. 
Exodus30:14 You must count every person who is 20 years old or more. Each person must offer his gift to the Lord. 
Exodus30:15 Rich people must not give more than six grams of silver. Poor people must not give less than that. That is the offering that you must each give to the Lord. It is the price that everyone must pay for his life. 
Exodus30:16 Receive these silver coins from the Israelites. Use the money to take care of the Tent of Meeting. Then the Lord will always remember that you belong to him. You have paid money to save your lives.’ 
Exodus30:17 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus30:18 ‘Use bronze to make a large bowl for water. Also use bronze to make a base for it to stand on. Put it between the Tent of Meeting and the altar. Fill it with water. 
Exodus30:19 Aaron and his sons must use the water from the bowl to wash their hands and their feet. 
Exodus30:20 Every time they go into the Tent of Meeting, they must wash in the same way. Then they will not die. They must also wash before they go to the altar to make a burnt offering to the Lord." 
Exodus30:21 If they wash their hands and their feet, they will not die as they serve me. This will always be a rule for Aaron and for his descendants, the priests.’" 
Exodus30:22 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus30:23 ‘Mix together these special spices: 6 kilograms of pure myrrh, 3 kilograms of sweet cinnamon, 3 kilograms of sweet grasses," 
Exodus30:24 6 kilograms of cassia, and 4 litres of olive oil." 
Exodus30:25 Mix these spices to make a special oil. A worker should use special skills to make it, so that it has a sweet smell, like perfume. It will be a very special oil to put on things that belong to me." 
Exodus30:26 Then pour some of this special oil on these things: the Tent of Meeting, the Covenant Box," 
Exodus30:27 the special table and all its tools, the lampstand and its tools, the altar for incense," 
Exodus30:28 the altar for burnt offerings and all its tools, and the large bowl of water with its base." 
Exodus30:29 You must make all these things special for me. They will be very holy things. Anything that touches them will also become holy. 
Exodus30:30 Pour some of the special oil on Aaron's head and on the heads of his sons. Make them special for me. Then they can serve me as my priests. 
Exodus30:31 Say to the Israelites, “This will always be my special oil for all time." 
Exodus30:32 Do not put it on the bodies of anyone, except priests. Do not use spices like this to make oil for yourselves. It is holy and you must always think about it as holy." 
Exodus30:33 Nobody must make a perfume that has a sweet smell like this oil. Nobody must put this oil on any person who is not a priest. Anyone who does not obey this rule will no longer belong to my people.” ’ 
Exodus30:34 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Use the same amount of each of these sweet spices to make some incense: gum resin, onycha, galbanum and frankincense." 
Exodus30:35 Give them to a worker who can use special skills to make the incense. It must have a sweet smell, like a perfume. Add some salt to it so that it is a pure and holy incense." 
Exodus30:36 Beat some of the incense to make powder. Put this in front of the Covenant Box, in the Tent of Meeting. That is where I will meet with you. This incense will be a very holy thing for you." 
Exodus30:37 Do not make any incense like this for yourselves. You must always think about it as very holy. It belongs to the Lord. 
Exodus30:38 If anyone makes any incense like it for his own perfume, he will no longer belong to my people.’" 
Exodus31:1 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus31:2 ‘Look! I have chosen Bezalel, the son of Uri and the grandson of Hur. He belongs to the tribe of Judah." 
Exodus31:3 I have filled him with my Spirit so that he has special skills. He knows how to make many kinds of things. 
Exodus31:4 He can draw pictures of beautiful things that he wants to make. Then he uses gold, silver or bronze to make them." 
Exodus31:5 He knows how to cut valuable stones and make them look beautiful. He knows how to cut wood into different shapes. He is very clever at all kinds of work. 
Exodus31:6 I have also chosen Oholiab to help Bezalel. Oholiab is the son of Ahisamach. He belongs to the tribe of Dan. I have also helped all the workers who have special skills. They will be able to make everything that I have commanded you to make. 
Exodus31:7 They will make these things: the Tent of Meeting, the Covenant Box with its special lid, the other things that will be in the tabernacle." 
Exodus31:8 Those things include: the special table with all its tools, the pure gold lampstand with all its tools, the altar for incense," 
Exodus31:9 the altar for burnt offerings with all its tools, the large bowl for water and its base," 
Exodus31:10 the beautiful clothes for Aaron the priest, the clothes for his sons as they serve as priests," 
Exodus31:11 the special oil to show that things belong to me, and the sweet incense for the Holy Place. The workers must make all these things in the way that I have commanded you.’" 
Exodus31:12 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus31:13 ‘Say to the Israelites, “You must keep my Sabbath days as special days. This will help you and your descendants to remember that you belong to me. You will remember that I, the Lord, have chosen you to be my people." 
Exodus31:14 The Sabbath day must be special for you, because it is a holy day. If anyone does not make the Sabbath a special day, you must punish him with death. If anyone does any work on a Sabbath day, he can no longer belong to my people." 
Exodus31:15 You may work for six days each week, but the seventh day is a day of rest. It is a holy day that is special to me, the Lord. If anyone does any work on a Sabbath day, you must punish him with death." 
Exodus31:16 The Israelites must always keep the Sabbath as a special day. They must obey the rules for the Sabbath day. Those rules are part of my covenant with my people, which continues for ever." 
Exodus31:17 It will always be a sign that I have chosen the Israelites to be my people. You will remember that the Lord made the heavens and the earth in six days. Then, on the seventh day, he stopped working and he rested.” ’" 
Exodus31:18 The Lord finished speaking to Moses on Mount Sinai. Then he gave Moses the two flat stones with the special commands that God himself had written on them. 
Exodus32:1 The people realized that Moses had been on the mountain for a long time. So they went in a group to Aaron. They said to him, ‘Do something! Make some gods for us who will lead us. This man, Moses, brought us here out of Egypt. But now we do not know what has happened to him.’" 
Exodus32:2 So Aaron said to them, ‘Take the gold rings from the ears of your wives, your sons and your daughters. Then bring the rings to me.’" 
Exodus32:3 So all the Israelites removed the rings from their ears. They brought them to Aaron. 
Exodus32:4 Aaron took the gold rings from the people. He melted the gold and he used a tool to make an image of a calf. Then the people said, ‘Look, people of Israel! This is our god who brought us up out of Egypt!’" 
Exodus32:5 When Aaron saw this, he built an altar in front of the gold calf. He told everyone, ‘Tomorrow, there will be a feast to worship the Lord.’" 
Exodus32:6 So the next day, the Israelites got up early. They killed animals as burnt offerings on the altar. They also brought peace offerings. After that, they sat down to eat a meal and they drank wine. Then they had a wild party." 
Exodus32:7 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Hurry back down the mountain! The people that you brought out of Egypt have done a wicked thing." 
Exodus32:8 They have already turned away from my commands. They have made for themselves an image of a calf. They have bent down low to worship it. They have made sacrifices to give it honour. They are saying, “This is the god of the Israelites, the god who brought us out of Egypt!” ’" 
Exodus32:9 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘I have seen these people. They are proud and they do not obey me." 
Exodus32:10 I am very angry with them and I will destroy them. Do not try to stop me. I will make your descendants into a great nation, instead of them.’" 
Exodus32:11 But Moses asked the Lord his God to be kind. He said, ‘ Lord, please do not be so angry with your own people! You used your great power and authority to bring them safely out of Egypt." 
Exodus32:12 If you destroy them, the Egyptians will say, “God led the Israelites out of our land so that he could completely destroy them. He wanted to kill them in the mountains.” So please stop being angry. Change your mind. Please do not bring this great trouble on your own people." 
Exodus32:13 Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, who are our ancestors. Remember the serious promise that you made to them. You said, “I will give you many descendants. They will be as many as the stars in the sky. I have also promised to give this whole land to them. It will belong to them as their home for ever.” ’" 
Exodus32:14 Then the Lord changed his mind. He did not bring the great trouble on his people as he had said he would. 
Exodus32:15 Moses left the Lord and he went down the mountain. He carried in his hands the two flat stones with God's special commands on them. God had written his commands on both sides of the stones. 
Exodus32:16 This was God's own work. He himself had written the words on the stones. 
Exodus32:17 Joshua heard the noise of the Israelites as they were shouting down below. He said to Moses, ‘I can hear the sound of war in the camp!’" 
Exodus32:17 Joshua heard the noise of the Israelites as they were shouting down below. He said to Moses, ‘I can hear the sound of war in the camp!’" 
Exodus32:18 But Moses said, ‘It is not the noise that soldiers make when they have won a battle. It is not the sound of soldiers who are crying because their enemy has won against them. I can hear the sound of people who are singing.’" 
Exodus32:19 Then Moses arrived at the camp. He saw the gold calf. He saw that the people were dancing. He became very angry. He threw the two flat stones that he was carrying onto the ground. He broke them into pieces there at the bottom of the mountain. 
Exodus32:20 Then he took the image of the calf that they had made. He burned it in the fire. He beat it into powder. He mixed the powder with the people's water. Then he commanded the Israelites to drink it. 
Exodus32:21 Moses said to Aaron, ‘Why did you agree to do this? What did the people do to you? You have made them guilty of a great sin.’" 
Exodus32:22 Aaron answered, ‘My lord, please do not be so angry with me. You know how quickly these people decide to do wicked things." 
Exodus32:23 They said to me, “Make us some gods that will lead us. This man Moses brought us here out of Egypt. But now we do not know what has happened to him.”" 
Exodus32:24 So I said to them, “Everyone who has any gold rings must remove them.” So they gave the gold to me. I threw it into the fire. Then this image of a calf came out of the fire!’" 
Exodus32:25 Moses saw that the people were running about everywhere. Aaron had not been able to control them. If their enemies could see them, they would see how foolish they were." 
Exodus32:26 So Moses stood at the edge of the camp. He said, ‘Everyone who decides to serve the Lord must come here to me.’ Then all the Levites went to stand near Moses." 
Exodus32:27 Moses said to the Levites, ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says this: Each one of you must take his sword in his hand. You must go everywhere in the camp, from this side to the other side. You must kill everyone, even your brothers, your friends and your neighbours.’" 
Exodus32:28 The Levites obeyed Moses' command. About 3,000 Israelites died on that day." 
Exodus32:29 Then Moses said to the Levites, ‘You have shown today that you want to serve the Lord. You have become his special servants because you have obeyed him. You have agreed to kill even your own sons and brothers. God has blessed you because of this.’" 
Exodus32:30 On the next day, Moses said to the people, ‘You have done a great sin. But now I will go back up the mountain. I will speak to the Lord. Perhaps I can do something so that the Lord will forgive your sin.’" 
Exodus32:31 So Moses returned to the Lord. He said to the Lord, ‘Please listen to me. These people have done a very great sin. They have made a gold idol to worship as their god." 
Exodus32:32 But now I ask you to forgive them for their sin. But if you will not do that, then please remove my name from your book.’" 
Exodus32:33 The Lord answered Moses, ‘I will only remove the names of the people who have turned against me." 
Exodus32:34 Now go! Lead the Israelites to the place that I have told you about. My angel will go in front of you. But on the day for punishment, I will certainly punish them for their sin.’" 
Exodus32:35 The Lord sent a bad disease to punish the people. He punished them because they had caused Aaron to make an image of a calf. 
Exodus33:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘You must now leave here with the people that you brought out of Egypt. You must take them to the land that I promised to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I made a serious promise to them that I would give the land to their descendants." 
Exodus33:2 I will send an angel to lead you. I will chase the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites out of the land." 
Exodus33:3 You will go to that land where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone. But I will not travel with you. You are proud people who refuse to obey me. If I go with you, I might destroy you as you travel.’" 
Exodus33:4 The Israelites heard God's strong words. His message made them very upset. They stopped wearing their jewels, to show that they were sad." 
Exodus33:5 The Lord had said to Moses, ‘Tell the Israelites, “You are proud people who refuse to obey me. If I go with you, even for a moment, I might destroy you. Now remove your jewels. Then I will decide what I should do with you.” ’" 
Exodus33:6 So the Israelites no longer wore their jewels after they left Mount Sinai. 
Exodus33:7 As they travelled, Moses put up a tent outside the camp. It was not near the other tents. He called it the Tent of Meeting. Anyone could go there to ask the Lord about something. They would go to the Tent of Meeting that was outside the camp." 
Exodus33:8 When Moses went out to the special tent, all the people would stand at the doors of their tents. They would watch Moses until he went into the special tent." 
Exodus33:9 When Moses went into the tent, the pillar of cloud would come down. The cloud would stay at the door of the tent while the Lord spoke to Moses." 
Exodus33:10 Every time that the people saw the pillar of cloud at the door of the special tent, they all stood up. Then each person would stand at the door of his tent. They would bend low to worship the Lord." 
Exodus33:11 The Lord would speak to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. Then Moses would return to the camp. But Nun's son Joshua always stayed in the special tent. Joshua was a young man who helped Moses." 
Exodus33:11 The Lord would speak to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. Then Moses would return to the camp. But Nun's son Joshua always stayed in the special tent. Joshua was a young man who helped Moses." 
Exodus33:12 Moses said to the Lord, ‘You have said to me, “Lead these people to their new land.” But you have not told me who my helper will be on the journey. You have told me, “I know you by your name. I am very pleased with you.”" 
Exodus33:13 If you are really pleased with me, tell me your thoughts. I want to understand you properly. Then I can continue to please you. Remember that this nation, the Israelites, are your own people.’" 
Exodus33:14 The Lord replied, ‘I myself will go with you. I will give you rest.’" 
Exodus33:15 Then Moses said, ‘If you do not agree to go with us, do not let us go anywhere." 
Exodus33:16 If you do not go with us, nobody will know that you are pleased with me. Nobody will know that you are pleased with us as your special people. I, and all your people, will be the same as all the other people in the world.’" 
Exodus33:17 The Lord said to Moses, ‘I will certainly do what you have asked for. This is because I am pleased with you. I know you by your name.’" 
Exodus33:18 Then Moses said, ‘Please, show me your glory!’" 
Exodus33:19 The Lord said, ‘I will let you see how great and good I am. I will tell you my name, that I am the Lord. If I choose to be kind to someone, I will be kind to them. If I choose to forgive someone, I will forgive them." 
Exodus33:20 But you will never see my face. Nobody can see my face and still be alive.’ 
Exodus33:21 Then the Lord said, ‘Look! There is a place near to me. You can stand there on a rock." 
Exodus33:22 When my glory passes in front of you, I will put you in a hole in the rock. I will cover your eyes with my hand as I pass by there." 
Exodus33:23 Then I will remove my hand so that you will see my back. But nobody must ever see my face.’ 
Exodus34:1 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Cut two flat stones like the first stones. Then I will write on them all the words that I wrote on the first stones. Those were the stones that you broke into pieces." 
Exodus34:2 Make yourself ready in the morning and come up Mount Sinai. Stand there, ready to meet me on the top of the mountain." 
Exodus34:3 Nobody must come with you. Nobody must go anywhere on the mountain. Even your sheep and your cows must not eat grass near the bottom of the mountain.’ 
Exodus34:4 So Moses cut two flat stones like the first stones. Early in the morning, he went up Mount Sinai, as the Lord had commanded him. He carried the two flat stones in his hands." 
Exodus34:5 Then the Lord came down in the cloud. He came and he stood with Moses. The Lord spoke aloud his own name, the Lord." 
Exodus34:6 The Lord passed in front of Moses. He said in a loud voice, ‘I am the Lord! The Lord! I am kind to people and I forgive them. I do not quickly become angry. My faithful love for my people continues for ever, and I am always faithful." 
Exodus34:7 I faithfully love thousands of people. I forgive their sins when they turn against me. But if people are guilty, I surely punish them. I punish their children, their grandchildren and their grandchildren's children.’" 
Exodus34:8 Then Moses quickly bent down low to worship the Lord. 
Exodus34:9 He said, ‘ Lord, my God, if you are pleased with me, please travel with us! It is true that these people are proud and they often do not obey you. But please forgive all our sins. Please accept us as your own people.’" 
Exodus34:10 Then the Lord said, ‘I will make a covenant with the Israelites. I will do great miracles for them to see. Nobody in any nation anywhere in the world has ever done such great things. All the people who live near you will see the great things that I, the Lord, will do. The powerful things that I do among you will make them very afraid." 
Exodus34:11 Obey the commands that I am giving you today. Then I will chase out the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, as you move into the land." 
Exodus34:12 Do not make any agreements with those people in the land where you are going. If you become their friends, they would teach you to do wrong things." 
Exodus34:13 Instead, you must knock down their altars. Destroy the special stones that are their idols. Cut down their Asherah poles." 
Exodus34:14 Do not worship any other god instead of me. I am the Lord and I want you to belong to me alone. 
Exodus34:15 Be careful not to make an agreement with the people who live in that land. They have turned away to worship their own gods. They offer sacrifices to their gods. When they do that, they may ask you to join with them. Then you will eat the food that they have offered to their gods." 
Exodus34:16 Perhaps you may choose some of their daughters for your sons to marry. Their daughters will continue to worship their gods. Then they will teach your sons to turn away from me and worship their gods. 
Exodus34:17 Do not melt metal to make images of false gods. 
Exodus34:18 Eat the Feast of Flat Bread every year. Eat bread that has no yeast in it for seven days, as I commanded you. Do this on the right day in the month of Abib. That is the month that you came out from Egypt." 
Exodus34:19 Every firstborn child that a woman gives birth to belongs to me. That is also true for every firstborn male that your animals give birth to. That includes your cows and your sheep. 
Exodus34:20 For a firstborn donkey, you may pay for it with a lamb instead. If you do not pay for it, you must break the donkey's neck. You must pay me back for every firstborn son that you have. Nobody may come to worship me without an offering to give me." 
Exodus34:21 You may work for six days each week, but on the seventh day you must rest. That is true even when it is the time to plough your fields. It is also true at harvest time. You must rest on the seventh day each week." 
Exodus34:22 Eat the Feast of Weeks every year when you cut the first wheat in your fields. Eat the Feast of Harvest at the end of each year. 
Exodus34:23 Three times in every year, all your men must come to worship the Lord God, the God of Israel." 
Exodus34:24 I will chase the nations out of the land as you move in. I will give you more and more land to live in. Three times each year you must come to worship the Lord your God. When you do that, nobody will try to take your land for themselves." 
Exodus34:25 When you offer the blood of an animal to me as your sacrifice, do not also offer any bread with yeast in it. When you kill a lamb for the Passover sacrifice, do not keep any of the meat until the next morning." 
Exodus34:26 When you cut the first crops from your fields, bring the best food to the house of the Lord your God. Do not cook a young goat in its mother's milk.’" 
Exodus34:27 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Write down these words. They are the rules of the covenant that I have made with you and with the Israelites.’" 
Exodus34:28 Moses was there on the mountain with the Lord for 40 days and 40 nights. He did not eat anything or drink anything during that time. He wrote the words of God's covenant on the flat stones. Those were God's ten special commands. 
Exodus34:29 Moses came down from Mount Sinai. He carried the two stones of the covenant in his hands. As he came down the mountain, he did not know that his face was shining. His face was shining because he had spoken with the Lord." 
Exodus34:30 When Aaron and all the Israelites saw Moses, they could see that his face was shining. They were afraid to come near him." 
Exodus34:31 But Moses called out to them. So Aaron and the leaders of the people came back to him. Then Moses talked to them. 
Exodus34:32 After this, all the Israelites came near to Moses. He told them all the commands that the Lord had given to him on Mount Sinai." 
Exodus34:33 When Moses had finished speaking to the people, he covered his face with a thin cloth." 
Exodus34:34 But when he went into the special tent to speak with the Lord, he would remove the cloth. When he came out again, he would tell the Israelites what God had commanded him to say." 
Exodus34:35 They could see that his face was shining. So Moses would put the thin cloth over his face again. The cloth would stay on his face until he went into the tent again to speak with the Lord. 
Exodus35:1 Moses brought all the Israelites together. Then he said to them, ‘These are the Lord 's commands to you." 
Exodus35:2 You may work for six days each week, but the seventh day will be a holy day for you. It will be a day of complete rest to give honour to the Lord. If anyone works on that day, you must punish him with death." 
Exodus35:3 Do not light a fire in any of your homes on a Sabbath day.’ 
Exodus35:4 Moses said to all the Israelites, ‘This is what the Lord has commanded:" 
Exodus35:5 Take an offering to give to the Lord from the things that you have. Everyone who wants to give something may choose to give these things: gold, silver, bronze;" 
Exodus35:6 blue, purple and red material; good linen, goats' hair;" 
Exodus35:7 red leather from sheep's skins and other kinds of good leather; acacia wood; 
Exodus35:8 olive oil for the lamps; spices to make the special oil and the sweet incense; 
Exodus35:9 onyx stones and other jewels to fix on the ephod and on the breastpiece. 
Exodus35:10 Every clever person who has special skills must come to help. They must make all these things that the Lord has commanded: 
Exodus35:11 the tabernacle, with the tent and the other material that covers it; the rings, boards, sticks, poles and bases that are part of the tabernacle;" 
Exodus35:12 the Covenant Box, with its poles, its special lid and the curtain that hides it;" 
Exodus35:13 the special table with its poles and all its dishes; the special bread that you will put on the table for the Lord; 
Exodus35:14 the lampstand that will give light and its tools; the lamps and the oil for the lamps; 
Exodus35:15 the altar for incense and its poles; the special oil and the sweet incense; the curtain for the entrance of the tabernacle; 
Exodus35:16 the altar for burnt offerings and its bronze net; the poles for this altar and all its tools; the large bowl for water and its base; 
Exodus35:17 the curtains for the yard, its poles and their bases; the curtain for the entrance of the yard;" 
Exodus35:18 pegs to fix the tent to the ground; pegs and ropes to hold the curtain around the yard; 
Exodus35:19 the special clothes for Aaron and his sons to wear when they serve the Lord as priests in the Holy Place.’ 
Exodus35:20 After Moses had said this, all the Israelites went away." 
Exodus35:21 Everyone who decided to offer a gift to the Lord brought the things that they wanted to give. They brought the things to make the Tent of Meeting and the things to use in it. They also brought materials to make the priests' special clothes. 
Exodus35:22 Both men and women brought beautiful things because they wanted to do that. They brought gold things and jewels that they had worn. They included rings, necklaces and other beautiful things. When they brought their gifts, they lifted them up as an offering of gold to the Lord." 
Exodus35:23 Everyone who had blue, purple or red material, or good linen, brought it. They also brought goats' hair, red leather from sheep's skins and other kinds of good leather." 
Exodus35:24 Those who brought gifts of silver or bronze offered them to the Lord. Everyone who had acacia wood brought it to help with the Lord 's work. 
Exodus35:25 All the women who knew how to make things used their hands to make material. They brought what they had made: blue, purple and red material and good linen." 
Exodus35:26 Other clever women used goats' hair to make cloth. They did that because they wanted to help. 
Exodus35:27 The leaders of the Israelites brought onyx stones and other jewels to fix on the ephod and on the breastpiece. 
Exodus35:28 They also brought spices and olive oil. These things were to burn in the lamps, and to make the special oil and the sweet incense." 
Exodus35:29 Many Israelites chose to offer gifts to the Lord. Men and women all brought the gifts that they had decided to bring. Moses had told them about the work that the Lord had commanded them to do. So they brought these things to help with the work. 
Exodus35:30 Then Moses said to the Israelites, ‘Listen! The Lord has chosen Bezalel, the son of Uri and the grandson of Hur. He belongs to the tribe of Judah." 
Exodus35:31 The Lord has filled him with his Spirit so that he has special skills. He knows how to make many kinds of things. 
Exodus35:32 He can draw pictures of beautiful things that he wants to make. He can use gold, silver and bronze to make them." 
Exodus35:33 He knows how to cut valuable stones and make them look beautiful. He knows how to cut wood into different shapes. He is very clever at all kinds of beautiful work. 
Exodus35:34 The Lord has chosen Oholiab to help Bezalel. Oholiab is the son of Ahisamach. He belongs to the tribe of Dan. Bezalel and Oholiab can teach other people how to make things. 
Exodus35:35 They have special skills to make all kinds of things. They can draw pictures of the things that they want to make. They can cut pictures in metal. They can use blue, purple and red material and good linen to make beautiful things with pictures on them. They are very clever at their work, so that the things that they make look beautiful.’" 
Exodus36:1 Then Moses said, ‘Bezalel and Oholiab will do the work that the Lord has commanded us to do. Everyone that the Lord has helped to have special skills will work with them. They will help to build the tabernacle and all the other special things that the Lord has commanded.’" 
Exodus36:2 Then Moses called Bezalel, Oholiab and all the other people who had special skills to come together. The Lord had given them these skills and they wanted to start the work." 
Exodus36:3 They received from Moses all the gifts that the Israelites had chosen to bring. They had brought gifts that would help to build the tabernacle and the other special things. The Israelites continued to bring more gifts to Moses every morning. 
Exodus36:4 Then all the workers who had special skills stopped doing their work. They left their work on the tabernacle and they went to speak to Moses. 
Exodus36:5 They said to Moses, ‘The people are bringing many more gifts than we need to finish the tabernacle, as the Lord commanded us to do.’" 
Exodus36:6 So Moses sent a message to everyone in the whole camp. He said, ‘No man or woman must offer any more gifts for the work of the tabernacle.’ When the people heard Moses' message, they did not bring any more gifts." 
Exodus36:7 The workers already had more things than they needed to finish all the work. 
Exodus36:8 All the workers who had special skills made the tabernacle with ten curtains. They used very good linen, as well as blue, purple and red material. They made beautiful pictures of cherubs on the curtains." 
Exodus36:9 All the curtains were the same size: 12 metres long and 2 metres wide. 
Exodus36:10 The workers joined five of the curtains together. They did the same thing with the other five curtains. 
Exodus36:11 They made rings of blue material along the edge of the last curtain in each set of five curtains. 
Exodus36:12 They put 50 rings along the edge of the first set. They put another 50 rings along the edge of the second set. The rings on one curtain were opposite to the rings on the other curtain. 
Exodus36:13 They made 50 small gold hooks to join the curtains together. So a single piece of curtain made the whole tabernacle. 
Exodus36:14 The workers used goats' hair to make 11 more curtains to cover the tabernacle, like a tent." 
Exodus36:15 The curtains were all the same size: 13.5 metres long and 2 metres wide. 
Exodus36:16 They joined five of the curtains together to make one set. They joined the other six curtains to make another set. 
Exodus36:17 They used material to make 50 rings along the edge of the end curtain in each set. 
Exodus36:18 They made 50 bronze hooks to join the two sets of curtains together. It made a single tent. 
Exodus36:19 They used red leather from sheep's skins to cover the tent. They used another kind of good leather to cover the red leather. 
Exodus36:20 They used acacia wood to make the boards that would hold up the tabernacle. 
Exodus36:21 Each board was 4 metres high and 65 centimetres wide. 
Exodus36:22 Each board had two wooden pegs, beside each other. They made all the boards for the tabernacle like this." 
Exodus36:23 They made 20 boards for the south side of the tabernacle. 
Exodus36:24 They used silver to make 40 heavy bases to hold up the boards. Two bases would hold up each board. The pegs on the boards fitted into holes in the bases. 
Exodus36:25 They made 20 boards for the north side of the tabernacle. 
Exodus36:26 They made 40 silver bases, two bases under each board." 
Exodus36:27 They made six boards for the west side, at the back of the tabernacle." 
Exodus36:28 They made two boards for the corners at the back of the tabernacle. 
Exodus36:29 They fixed the two boards together, from the bottom to the top. They used a ring to fix them together at the top. They made both corners in the same way." 
Exodus36:30 So there were eight boards at the back of the tabernacle and 16 silver bases, two bases under each board." 
Exodus36:31 They used acacia wood to make bars to fix across the boards. They made five bars for the south side of the tabernacle," 
Exodus36:32 five bars for the north side, and five bars for the west side at the back of the tabernacle." 
Exodus36:33 The bar that would go across the centre of the boards would reach from one end of the tabernacle to the other end. 
Exodus36:34 They used gold to cover the boards and to make rings for the boards. The rings would hold the bars in place across the boards. They also covered the wooden bars with gold. 
Exodus36:35 The workers used blue, purple and red material, and good linen to make a special curtain. A worker used special skills to make pictures of cherubs on it." 
Exodus36:36 They used gold rings to hang the curtain from four poles of acacia wood. They covered the poles with gold. They made four silver bases to hold the poles. 
Exodus36:37 They made a curtain for the entrance of the tent. They used blue, purple and red material and good linen to make it. A worker used special skills to make it, so that it looked beautiful." 
Exodus36:38 They made five poles to hold up this curtain. They fixed gold hooks to the poles. They covered the tops of the poles with gold. But they used bronze to make five bases to hold up the poles. 
Exodus37:1 Bezalel used acacia wood to make the Covenant Box. It was 1 metre long, 75 centimetres wide and 75 centimetres high." 
Exodus37:2 He covered it with gold, inside and outside. He built up the edges of the box with gold." 
Exodus37:3 He made four gold rings for it and he fixed them to its four feet. He fixed two rings on one side and two rings on the other side. 
Exodus37:4 He used acacia wood to make two poles. He also covered them with gold. 
Exodus37:5 He pushed the poles through the rings on the sides of the Covenant Box, to carry it." 
Exodus37:6 He used pure gold to make the special lid for the Covenant Box. It was 1 metre long and 75 centimetres wide. 
Exodus37:7 He used gold to make images of two cherubs. He used a hammer to make them the right shape. He made them to stand at the two ends of the lid. 
Exodus37:8 One cherub stood at one end of the lid and one cherub stood at the other end. He made the two cherubs and the lid from one piece of gold. 
Exodus37:9 The cherubs looked at each other and they watched over the lid. Their wings touched each other over the top of the lid. 
Exodus37:10 Bezalel used acacia wood to make the special table. It was 1 metre long, 50 centimetres wide and 75 centimetres high." 
Exodus37:11 He covered the wood with gold. He built up the edges of the table with gold. 
Exodus37:12 He fixed an extra piece of wood around its edge. It was 7 centimetres wide. He built up the edges of this piece with gold. 
Exodus37:13 He made four gold rings for the table. He fixed them to the four corners, one beside each leg of the table." 
Exodus37:14 The rings were near to the extra piece of wood. They would hold the poles to carry the table. 
Exodus37:15 He used acacia wood to make the poles and he covered them with gold. They would use the poles to carry the table. 
Exodus37:16 He used pure gold to make the things that would be on the table. He made plates, big spoons, jars and bowls. They would use those things to pour out drink offerings." 
Exodus37:17 Bezalel used one piece of pure gold to make the lampstand. He used a hammer to make it the right shape. He used the gold to make its base, its middle pole and the cups to hold the oil. The cups were like open flowers and closed flowers." 
Exodus37:18 There were six branches on the lampstand, three branches on each side of the middle pole." 
Exodus37:19 Three cups in the shape of almond flowers and their leaves were on each branch. Each of the six branches of the lampstand had three cups like that. 
Exodus37:20 On the lampstand itself there were four cups in the shape of almond flowers and their leaves. 
Exodus37:21 There was one closed flower under the first pair of branches. There was a second closed flower under the second pair of branches. There was a third closed flower under the third pair of branches. So there were three closed flowers for the six branches. 
Exodus37:22 He made the flowers and the branches from the same piece of pure gold as the lampstand. He used a hammer to make the gold into the right shape. 
Exodus37:23 He used pure gold to make seven lamps for the lampstand, as well as the small tools and dishes to take care of the lamps." 
Exodus37:24 He used 34 kilograms of pure gold to make the lampstand and all its tools. 
Exodus37:25 Bezalel used acacia wood to make the altar for incense. It was square, 45 centimetres long, 45 centimetres wide and 90 centimetres high. The altar's horns were part of it, made from one piece of wood." 
Exodus37:26 He covered all the altar with gold: its top, its sides and the horns. He built up an edge of gold around the four sides." 
Exodus37:27 He made two gold rings for the altar. He fixed them below the gold edge, on two opposite sides. They would hold the poles to carry the altar." 
Exodus37:28 He used acacia wood to make the poles and he covered them with gold. 
Exodus37:29 He also made the special oil that would make things holy. He also made the incense with a sweet smell, like perfume." 
Exodus38:1 Bezalel used acacia wood to build the altar for burnt offerings. It was square, 2.2 metres long and 2.2 metres wide. It was 1.3 metres high." 
Exodus38:2 He made four horns, one at each corner of the altar. The horns and the altar itself were one piece of work. He covered the whole altar with bronze." 
Exodus38:3 He made all the tools for the altar with bronze. He made pots to remove the ashes, and also spades and bowls. He made forks for the meat and dishes to carry the fire." 
Exodus38:4 He used bronze to make a square net for the altar. He fixed it inside the altar, in the middle between the top and the ground." 
Exodus38:5 He used bronze to make four rings. He fixed them to the four corners of the net. The poles to carry the altar would go through these rings. 
Exodus38:6 He used acacia wood to make the poles. He covered them with bronze. 
Exodus38:7 He put the poles through the rings on each side of the altar, to carry it. He used boards to make the altar so that it was empty inside." 
Exodus38:8 He used bronze to make a large bowl for water, and a base for it to stand on. He used the bronze from small mirrors to make these things. The mirrors had belonged to women who worked at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting." 
Exodus38:9 Bezalel made the yard around the tent. The south side of the yard was 45 metres long. It had curtains that were made from good linen. 
Exodus38:10 He made 20 poles and 20 bronze bases to hold the poles. He used silver to make hooks and sticks to hold the curtains. 
Exodus38:11 The north side of the yard was also 45 metres long. It also had 20 poles and their bronze bases, as well as their silver hooks and sticks." 
Exodus38:12 The west end of the yard was 23 metres long. It had curtains with ten poles and their ten bronze bases. The poles had silver hooks and sticks. 
Exodus38:13 The entrance of the yard was at its east end. That end was also 23 metres long. 
Exodus38:14 There were 7 metres of curtain on each side of the entrance. Three poles with their bases held the curtains on each side. 
Exodus38:15  
Exodus38:16 The workers used good linen to make all the curtains around the yard. 
Exodus38:17 All the poles had bronze bases to hold them. But the workers used silver to make the hooks that were on the poles, and the sticks. They covered the tops of the poles with silver too. All the poles around the yard had silver sticks to join them together." 
Exodus38:18 They used blue, purple and red material, as well as good linen, to make the curtain for the entrance of the yard. A worker used special skills so that it looked beautiful. It was 9 metres wide and 2.2 metres high. All the curtains around the yard were 2.2 metres high." 
Exodus38:19 Four poles in bronze bases held the curtain at the entrance. The poles had silver hooks and silver sticks. Silver also covered the tops of the poles. 
Exodus38:20 The workers used bronze to make the pegs that fixed the tabernacle to the ground. They also made bronze pegs to fix all the curtains around the yard to the ground. 
Exodus38:21 This is a list of the things that the workers used to make the tabernacle, with the Covenant Box inside it. Moses commanded the Levites to write this list. Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest, was the leader of this work." 
Exodus38:22 Bezalel, the son of Uri and grandson of Hur, made all the things that the Lord had commanded Moses. Bezalel belonged to the tribe of Judah." 
Exodus38:23 Ahisamach's son Oholiab helped him. He belonged to the tribe of Dan. He had a special skill to draw things that he wanted to make. He could make beautiful pictures on cloth, with blue, purple and red materials, as well as good linen." 
Exodus38:24 The workers used 1,000 kilograms of gold to do all the work to make the tabernacle. That was its proper weight that they use to weigh things in the holy place. The Israelites had lifted up this gold as an offering to the Lord." 
Exodus38:25 The people had also brought 3,430 kilograms of silver as an offering for the work." 
Exodus38:26 Each person who was 20 years old when Moses counted them had given the right amount, about ten grams. There were 603,550 men that Moses had counted." 
Exodus38:27 The workers used 34 kilograms of silver to make each base to hold the poles. There were 100 bases to hold the tabernacle and the special curtain inside it. So they used 3,400 kilograms of silver to make the bases." 
Exodus38:28 Then they used the 30 kilograms that still remained. With this, they made the hooks and the sticks for the poles, and they covered the tops of the poles." 
Exodus38:29 The people had also lifted up 2,425 kilograms of bronze as an offering to the Lord." 
Exodus38:30 The workers used this bronze to make the bases for the entrance to the tabernacle. They also used it to make the bronze altar, with its net and all its tools." 
Exodus38:31 They used this bronze to make the bases for the curtains around the yard and for the entrance to the yard. They used it to make the pegs to fix the tabernacle and the curtain around the yard to the ground. 
Exodus39:1 The workers used blue, purple and red material to make beautiful clothes for the priests. They would wear them when they served God in the Holy Place. They made these special clothes for Aaron, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:2 The workers used gold, and blue, purple and red material, as well as good linen, to make the ephod." 
Exodus39:3 They used a hammer to hit the gold to make thin pieces. Then they cut these pieces into narrow strings. A worker with special skills used the gold strings to make the blue, purple and red material, and the good linen, look very beautiful." 
Exodus39:4 The workers fixed pieces of cloth on the two edges of the ephod. These pieces went over the priest's shoulders to join the front and the back parts of the ephod. 
Exodus39:5 They made the beautiful belt to tie around the ephod. The belt and the ephod were one piece of work. They used the same materials to make both of them: gold, blue, purple and red material and good linen. They made them in the way that the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:6 The workers fixed the onyx stones into beautiful gold around their edges. A worker used a sharp tool to write on them the names of the sons of Israel. 
Exodus39:7 They fixed the two onyx stones on the shoulder pieces of the ephod. They showed the names of the 12 sons of Israel, so that the Lord would remember to bless his people. The Lord had commanded Moses to do this." 
Exodus39:8 Workers used special skills to make the breastpiece, so that it looked beautiful. They made it like the ephod. They used gold, blue, purple and red material as well as good linen to make it." 
Exodus39:9 They bent a piece of cloth over to make a square pocket, 22 centimetres long and 22 centimetres wide." 
Exodus39:10 Then they fixed four rows of jewels on it. These are the names of the jewels: A ruby, a topaz and a beryl in the first row." 
Exodus39:11 A turquoise, a sapphire and an emerald in the second row." 
Exodus39:12 A jacinth, an agate and an amethyst in the third row." 
Exodus39:13 A chrysolite, an onyx and a jasper in the fourth row. They fixed each jewel into beautiful gold around its edges." 
Exodus39:14 There were 12 jewels, one jewel for each of Israel's sons. They used a sharp tool to write one tribe's name on each jewel." 
Exodus39:15 They used pure gold to make two thin chains like strings, to fix the breastpiece to the ephod." 
Exodus39:16 Then they made two gold rings with beautiful gold around the edges. They fixed the rings to the two top corners of the breastpiece. 
Exodus39:17 They fixed the two gold chains to the rings on the corners of the breastpiece. 
Exodus39:18 They fixed the other ends of the two chains to the shoulder pieces of the ephod, in the front. They joined them to the gold pieces that held the onyx stones." 
Exodus39:19 They made two gold rings and they fixed them to the bottom corners of the breastpiece. They were on its inside edge, next to the ephod." 
Exodus39:20 Then they made two more gold rings. They fixed them to the bottom edge of the shoulder pieces, on the front of the ephod. They put the rings just above the ephod's belt." 
Exodus39:21 They used a string of blue material to tie the rings of the breastpiece to the rings of the ephod. They fixed them together above the ephod's belt, so that the breastpiece would not become separate. The workers made all these things as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:22 The workers used only blue cloth to make the robe for the ephod. 
Exodus39:23 They made a hole in the top of the robe, in the middle. They made an edge around the hole so that it would not tear. The priest's head would go through this hole." 
Exodus39:24 They used blue, purple and red materials and good linen to make pictures of pomegranates. These were around the bottom edge of the robe." 
Exodus39:25 They used pure gold to make little bells. They fixed the bells between the pomegranates on the bottom edge of the robe. 
Exodus39:26 So there was a bell, then a pomegranate, another bell then a pomegranate, all around the edge of the robe. The priest would wear this robe when he served the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:27 The workers made long shirts for Aaron and his sons, the priests. They used good linen to make cloth for the shirts." 
Exodus39:28 They also used good linen to make Aaron's special hat, as well as hats for the other priests. They used special soft linen to make the trousers that they wore next to their skin." 
Exodus39:29 A worker used special skills to make the long belt, so that it looked beautiful. He used blue, purple and red materials to make it, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:30 The workers used pure gold to make a thin plate as a holy sign. They carefully wrote these words on it with a sharp tool: ‘Holy to the Lord ’. 
Exodus39:31 They fixed a blue string to the plate, to tie it to the front of the special hat. The Lord had commanded Moses to do this." 
Exodus39:32 So the workers finished making everything for the tabernacle, the Tent of Meeting. The Israelites made everything exactly as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:33 Then they brought the tabernacle to Moses. They brought the tent and all the things that would be in it. They brought the hooks, boards, sticks, poles and bases." 
Exodus39:34 They brought the red leather from sheep's skins, and the other kinds of good leather that covered the tent. They also brought the curtain that hid the Most Holy Place." 
Exodus39:35 They brought the Covenant Box with its poles and its special lid. 
Exodus39:36 They brought the special table with all its dishes, and the special bread to put on the table for the Lord." 
Exodus39:37 They brought the gold lampstand with its lamps, and the oil and the tools to make the lamps give light." 
Exodus39:38 They brought the gold altar, the special oil, the sweet incense and the curtain for the entrance of the tabernacle." 
Exodus39:39 They brought the bronze altar and its bronze net, with its poles and all its tools. They brought the large bowl for water and its base." 
Exodus39:40 They brought the curtains for the yard and the curtain for the entrance to the yard, with their poles and their bases. They brought all the ropes and the pegs to fix those things to the ground. They brought everything that the priests needed to serve the Lord in the tabernacle, the Tent of Meeting." 
Exodus39:41 They also brought the special clothes for Aaron and his sons to wear when they served the Lord as priests in the Holy Place. 
Exodus39:42 The Israelites did all the work in the way that the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Exodus39:43 Moses carefully checked all the work. He saw that the workers had done it exactly as the Lord had commanded them. When Moses saw this, he blessed the people." 
Exodus40:1 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus40:2 ‘On the first day of the first month, put up the tabernacle, the Tent of Meeting." 
Exodus40:3 Put the Covenant Box in the tabernacle and hide it behind the special curtain. 
Exodus40:4 Bring in the special table and put the dishes on it. Then bring in the lampstand. Fix its lamps on it. 
Exodus40:5 Put the gold altar for incense in front of the Covenant Box. Hang the curtain that will be at the entrance to the tabernacle. 
Exodus40:6 Put the altar for burnt offerings in front of the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Exodus40:7 Put the large bowl for water between the Tent of Meeting and the altar. Put water in the bowl. 
Exodus40:8 Hang the curtains around the yard of the tabernacle, as well as the curtain at the entrance to the yard." 
Exodus40:9 Take the special oil that makes things holy. Pour some oil on the tabernacle and on everything that is in it. Offer the tabernacle and all its things to God, and then it will be holy." 
Exodus40:10 Then pour some oil on the altar for burnt offerings and all its tools. Offer it all to God, and then it will be completely holy." 
Exodus40:11 Pour some oil on the large bowl for water and on its base to offer them to God. 
Exodus40:12 Bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. Wash them with water. 
Exodus40:13 Then dress Aaron in the special clothes for the priest. Pour some of the special oil on his head. Offer him to me to serve me as my priest. 
Exodus40:14 Also bring his sons and dress them in the special long shirts. 
Exodus40:15 Pour some oil on their heads, as you did to their father. Then they too may serve me as my priests. In this way, they and their descendants will always continue to serve me as priests.’" 
Exodus40:16 Moses did all these things, as the Lord had commanded him." 
Exodus40:17 So they put up the tabernacle on the first day of the first month. It was in the second year after they had left Egypt. 
Exodus40:18 When Moses put up the tabernacle, he first put the metal bases in their right places. Then he put up the boards, the bars to hold them, and the poles." 
Exodus40:19 Then he covered the tabernacle with the tent and he put the leather covers over the tent. He did this in the way that the Lord had commanded him. 
Exodus40:20 Moses took the two flat stones with God's special commands on them. He put them inside the Covenant Box. He put the poles through the rings on the box. He put the special lid on top of the box. 
Exodus40:21 Then he brought the Covenant Box into the tabernacle. He hung the special curtain to hide it, so that nobody could see it. He did this in the way that the Lord had commanded him." 
Exodus40:22 Moses put the special table inside the Tent of Meeting. He put it outside the curtain, on the north side of the Holy Place." 
Exodus40:23 He put the special bread on the table as an offering to the Lord, as the Lord had commanded him." 
Exodus40:24 He also put the lampstand in the Tent of Meeting. He put it on the south side of the Holy Place, opposite the table." 
Exodus40:25 Then he put the lamps in their places in front of the Lord, as the Lord had commanded him." 
Exodus40:26 Moses put the gold altar in the Tent of Meeting, outside the curtain that hid the Covenant Box." 
Exodus40:27 He burned sweet incense on it, as the Lord had commanded him." 
Exodus40:28 Then he hung the curtain at the entrance of the tent. 
Exodus40:29 He put the altar for burnt offerings outside the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. He offered a burnt offering and a grain offering on it, as the Lord had commanded him." 
Exodus40:30 Moses put the large bowl for water between the Tent of Meeting and the altar. He put water in it for the priests to wash themselves. 
Exodus40:31 Moses and Aaron and Aaron's sons used the water to wash their hands and their feet. 
Exodus40:32 They washed themselves every time that they went into the Tent of Meeting. They also washed themselves before they went to offer sacrifices at the altar. They did what the Lord had commanded Moses to do. 
Exodus40:33 Moses also made the yard around the tabernacle and around the altar. He hung the curtain at the entrance of the yard. In that way, Moses finished the work." 
Exodus40:34 Then the cloud covered the Tent of Meeting. The glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. 
Exodus40:35 Moses could not go into the Tent of Meeting because of the cloud and the bright glory of the Lord. 
Exodus40:36 The Israelites followed the cloud during all their journeys. Every time that the cloud rose up from the tabernacle, they would continue on their journey." 
Exodus40:37 But if the cloud remained on the tabernacle, the Israelites did not travel. They stayed where they were until the day when the cloud rose up." 
Exodus40:38 So the cloud stayed over the tabernacle during the day, to show that the Lord was with them. During the night, there was fire in the cloud. All the Israelites could see the cloud during all their journeys." 
Leviticus1:1 The Lord spoke to Moses from the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus1:2 He said to Moses, ‘Speak to Israel's people. Tell them this. When a person gives an animal to the Lord, it must be a cow, a sheep or a goat." 
Leviticus1:3 A person may want to give a burnt offering to the Lord. That offering may be a bull that he takes from among his animals. It must be perfect. The person must bring the bull to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, so that the Lord will accept his gift." 
Leviticus1:4 Then he must put his hand on the animal's head. The Lord will accept the animal's death to pay for the person's sins. 
Leviticus1:5 The person who brings the offering must kill the young bull in front of the Lord. Aaron's sons, the priests, will take the blood. They will throw it onto the sides of the altar which is near the entrance of the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus1:6 The person must remove the skin from the dead animal. Then he must cut the meat into pieces. 
Leviticus1:7 Aaron's sons will light a fire on the altar. They will put pieces of wood on it. 
Leviticus1:8 Then Aaron's sons will put the pieces of meat onto the wood that is burning. They will put the head and the fat on the fire with the other meat. 
Leviticus1:9 The person who brings the offering must use water to wash the legs and the inside parts of the animal. Then the priest will burn the whole animal on the altar. The smell of the burnt offering will give pleasure to the Lord. 
Leviticus1:10 A person may want to give a sheep or a goat as a burnt offering to the Lord. His offering must be a perfect male animal. 
Leviticus1:11 He must kill it in front of the Lord, at the north side of the altar. Aaron's sons, the priests, will throw the blood onto the sides of the altar." 
Leviticus1:12 The person who brings the offering must cut the animal into pieces. The priests will take the pieces of meat, the head and the fat. They will put them on the wood which is burning on the altar." 
Leviticus1:13 The person who brings the offering must use water to wash the legs and the inside parts of the animal. Then the priest will burn the whole animal on the altar. The smell of the burnt offering will give pleasure to the Lord. 
Leviticus1:14 A person may want to give a bird as a burnt offering to the Lord. His offering must be a dove or a young pigeon. 
Leviticus1:15 The priest will take the bird to the altar. He will tear off the head and he will burn it on the altar. He will pour the bird's blood onto the side of the altar. 
Leviticus1:16 Then the priest will remove the part of the bird where it keeps its food, and the food in it. He will throw it on the east side of the altar, where the ashes are." 
Leviticus1:17 He will take hold of the bird's wings and he will tear open the body. But he must not tear it completely into two pieces. He will burn all of it on the wood that is burning on the altar. The smell of the burnt offering will give pleasure to the Lord. 
Leviticus2:1 A person may want to give a grain offering to the Lord. He must choose the best flour for his offering. He must pour olive oil on the flour and he must put incense on it. 
Leviticus2:2 He must take it to Aaron's sons, the priests. The priest will take some of the flour and its olive oil in his hand. He will also take all the incense. He will burn this part of the offering on the altar as a gift to the Lord. The smell of the offering will give pleasure to the Lord." 
Leviticus2:3 The part of the grain offering that remains will belong to Aaron and his sons. It is a very holy part of the gifts that people offer to the Lord. 
Leviticus2:4 If you bake your grain in an oven before you offer it, this is what you must do. You must use the best flour. Do not use any yeast. You may mix olive oil with the flour to make a loaf. Or you may make biscuits and put olive oil on them." 
Leviticus2:5 You may choose to cook a cake on a flat plate. If so, mix some olive oil with the best flour but do not use any yeast." 
Leviticus2:6 You must break the cake into pieces and then pour olive oil on it. It is a grain offering. 
Leviticus2:7 If you cook the grain in a pot, you must use the best flour. Cook it in olive oil." 
Leviticus2:8 Use these things to make your grain offering for the Lord. Then you must take it to the priest. He will take it to the altar. 
Leviticus2:9 He will take a part of the grain offering and he will burn it in the fire on the altar. The smell of this offering will give pleasure to the Lord. 
Leviticus2:10 The part of the grain offering that remains will belong to Aaron and his sons. It is a very holy part of the gifts that people offer to the Lord. 
Leviticus2:11 You must not use yeast in any grain offering that you give to the Lord. You must not give any yeast or honey to the priests for them to burn as a gift to the Lord. 
Leviticus2:12 You may offer yeast or honey to the Lord as the first part of your harvest. But you must not burn them on the altar to make a sweet smell that gives pleasure to the Lord. 
Leviticus2:13 You must put salt on all your grain offerings. Salt is a mark of God's covenant with you, his people. So do not forget to put salt on all your grain offerings." 
Leviticus2:14 You may want to use the first crops of your harvest to make a grain offering to the Lord. If so, you must break the new grains into small pieces. Then cook them on a fire." 
Leviticus2:15 It is a grain offering, so you must put olive oil and incense on it." 
Leviticus2:16 The priest will take a part of the grain and olive oil, together with all the incense. He will burn that part as a gift to the Lord." 
Leviticus3:1 A person might want to give a friendship offering to the Lord. He may choose a bull or a cow from among his animals. It must be perfect. 
Leviticus3:2 The person must put his hand on the animal's head. Then he must kill it at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. Aaron's sons, the priests, will throw the blood onto the sides of the altar." 
Leviticus3:3 The person must offer some parts of the friendship offering as a gift to the Lord. He must remove the fat that is around the inside parts of the animal. 
Leviticus3:4 He must remove the two kidneys and the fat that is around them. And he must remove the bottom part of the liver. 
Leviticus3:5 Aaron's sons will take these parts of the animal. They will put them on top of the burnt offering that is on the wood that burns on the altar. The smell of them while they are burning will give pleasure to the Lord. 
Leviticus3:6 A person may want to give a sheep or a goat as a friendship offering to the Lord. It must be a perfect animal, male or female." 
Leviticus3:7 If it is a young sheep, he must offer it as a gift to the Lord." 
Leviticus3:8 He must put his hand on its head. Then he must kill it at the front of the Tent of Meeting. Aaron's sons will throw the blood onto the sides of the altar. 
Leviticus3:9 The person must offer some parts of the friendship offering as a gift to the Lord. He must cut the fat part of the tail off the animal. He must remove the fat that is around the inside parts of the animal. 
Leviticus3:10 He must remove the two kidneys and the fat that is around them. And he must remove the bottom part of the liver. 
Leviticus3:11 The priest will burn these parts on the altar as a gift of food to the Lord. 
Leviticus3:12 A person may give a goat as his offering to the Lord. 
Leviticus3:13 The person must put his hand on the goat's head. Then he must kill it at the front of the Tent of Meeting. Then Aaron's sons will throw the blood onto the sides of the altar. 
Leviticus3:14 The person must offer some parts of his offering as a gift to the Lord. He must remove the fat that is around the inside parts of the animal. 
Leviticus3:15 He must remove the two kidneys and the fat that is around them. And he must remove the bottom part of the liver. 
Leviticus3:16 The priest will burn these parts on the altar as a gift of food. The smell of them while they are burning will give pleasure to the Lord. All the fat from these offerings belongs to the Lord. 
Leviticus3:17 You must never eat any fat or any blood yourselves. This is a rule that you and your descendants must always obey, in all the places where you live.’" 
Leviticus4:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus4:2 ‘Say to Israel's people, “Someone may do a wrong thing when he did not want to do it. He may do something that is against one of the Lord 's commands. People should always obey those commands, so it is a sin. This is what that person must do." 
Leviticus4:3 The person who does a wrong thing might be the leader of the priests. If that is so, his sin will cause the people to be guilty. He must bring a perfect young bull as an offering to the Lord. That will be his sin offering." 
Leviticus4:4 He must bring the young bull to the Lord at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. He must put his hand on the bull's head. Then he must kill it in front of the Lord. 
Leviticus4:5 The leader of the priests must take some of the blood into the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus4:6 He must put his finger in the blood. Then he must shake the blood seven times towards the curtain of the Lord 's Most Holy Place. 
Leviticus4:7 He must also put some of the blood on the horns of the incense altar. That altar is in the Lord 's Holy Place, inside the Tent of Meeting. He must pour all the bull's blood that remains onto the ground in front of the great altar. That is the altar for burnt offerings which is outside the entrance of the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus4:8 Then the leader of the priests must remove all the fat from the bull which is his sin offering. He must remove the fat that is around the inside parts of the animal. 
Leviticus4:9 He must remove the two kidneys and the fat that is around them. And he must remove the bottom part of the liver. 
Leviticus4:10 That is the same as the priest does with a bull which is a friendship offering. The priest must burn all the fat on the altar which is for burnt offerings. 
Leviticus4:11 But this is what the priest must do with all the other parts of the bull. He must take its skin, its meat, its head and its legs, as well as its inside parts and the food in its stomach." 
Leviticus4:12 He must take all those parts to a clean place which is outside the camp. He must burn them on a fire of wood on the heap of ashes. 
Leviticus4:13 The whole group of Israel's people might do a wrong thing when they did not want to do it. They might do something that is against one of the Lord 's commands. People should always obey those commands. They are guilty even if they did not know about it. 
Leviticus4:14 When they realize that they have done a sin, they must offer a young bull to the Lord. That will be their sin offering. They must bring it to the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus4:15 The leaders of the people must put their hands on the bull's head. Then one of them must kill it in front of the Lord. 
Leviticus4:16 The leader of the priests must take some of the bull's blood into the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus4:17 He must put his finger in the blood. Then he must shake the blood seven times towards the curtain of the Lord 's Most Holy Place. 
Leviticus4:18 He must also put some of the blood on the horns of the incense altar. That altar is in the Lord 's Holy Place, inside the Tent of Meeting. He must pour all the bull's blood that remains onto the ground in front of the great altar. That is the altar for burnt offerings which is outside the entrance of the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus4:19 Then the priest must remove all the fat from the dead animal. He will burn all the fat on the altar for burnt offerings. 
Leviticus4:20 He will do with the other parts of this bull the same things that he did with his own sin offering. This is how the priest will make the people clean from their sins. God will forgive them when the priest does this. 
Leviticus4:21 The priest must take the other parts of the bull outside the camp. He must burn them as he did with the first bull. This is the sin offering for the whole group of Israel's people. 
Leviticus4:22 A leader might do a wrong thing when he did not want to do it. He might do something that is against one of the Lord 's commands. People should always obey those commands, so he is guilty." 
Leviticus4:23 When he realizes that he has done a sin, he must bring a perfect male goat as an offering to the Lord." 
Leviticus4:24 He must put his hand on the goat's head. Then he must kill it in the place where they kill animals for burnt offerings to the Lord. It is a sin offering for the leader. 
Leviticus4:25 The priest must put his finger in the goat's blood. He will put some of it on the horns of the altar which is for burnt offerings. He must pour the blood that remains onto the ground in front of that altar. 
Leviticus4:26 Then the priest must remove all the fat from the goat. He must burn the fat on the altar, as he does for the sacrifices which are friendship offerings. This is how the priest will make the leader clean from his sin. God will forgive the leader when the priest does this." 
Leviticus4:27 One of the ordinary people might do a wrong thing when he did not want to do it. He might do something that is against one of the Lord 's commands. People should always obey those commands, so he is guilty." 
Leviticus4:28 When he realizes that he has done a sin, he should bring a perfect female goat as an offering to the Lord." 
Leviticus4:29 He must put his hand on the head of the goat which is his sin offering. Then he must kill it in the place where they kill animals for burnt offerings. 
Leviticus4:30 The priest must put his finger in the goat's blood. He will put some of it on the horns of the altar which is for burnt offerings. He must pour the blood that remains onto the ground in front of that altar. 
Leviticus4:31 Then the priest must remove all the fat from the goat, as he did with the sacrifice for the friendship offering. He must burn the fat on the altar so that its smell gives pleasure to the Lord. This is how the priest will make the person clean from his sin. God will forgive the person when the priest does this." 
Leviticus4:32 If the person chooses to offer a sheep as his sin offering, it must be a perfect female sheep." 
Leviticus4:33 He must put his hand on the head of the sheep which is his sin offering. He must then kill it at the place where they kill animals for burnt offerings. 
Leviticus4:34 The priest must put his finger in the sheep's blood. He will put some of it on the horns of the altar which is for burnt offerings. He must pour all the blood that remains onto the ground in front of the altar. 
Leviticus4:35 He must remove all the fat from the sheep. This is the same as they do with fat from sheep which are sacrifices for friendship offerings. The priest must then burn the fat on the altar. He will burn it on top of the other offerings that people give to the Lord. This is how the priest will make the person clean from their sin. God will forgive the person when the priest does this. 
Leviticus5:1 Someone may have seen something happen, or they may know about it. A judge may command people to say anything that they know about what happened. If the person refuses to tell what he knows about it, he is guilty of a sin. He deserves punishment." 
Leviticus5:2 Someone may touch something that is unclean. It may be the dead body of a wild animal or a farm animal that is not clean. Or he may touch the dead body of an unclean animal that moves near to the ground. Even if the person does not realize what he has done, he has made himself unclean. He is guilty of a sin." 
Leviticus5:3 Someone may touch something that comes out from another person and it is unclean. The person may not know that he has touched it, but later he realizes what he has done. He is guilty of a sin." 
Leviticus5:4 Someone may not think carefully before he makes a promise. He may promise to do something that is good or something that is bad. Even if he does not know that he has made a careless promise, he is guilty when he realizes what he has done." 
Leviticus5:5 If someone becomes guilty for any of these reasons, he must say clearly that he has done a wrong thing." 
Leviticus5:6 He must bring a female sheep or a female goat for his sin offering. That will be the price to pay for his sin. The priest will offer the animal to the Lord as a sin offering. The Lord will accept the animal's death to pay for the person's sin. 
Leviticus5:7 The person may not have enough money to bring an animal as his sin offering. If so, he must pay for his sin with two doves or two young pigeons. He must bring them to the Lord. One bird will be a sin offering. The second bird will be a burnt offering." 
Leviticus5:8 He must take his birds to the priest. The priest will first offer to the Lord the bird that is for a sin offering. He must break the bird's neck, but he must not remove the head from the body." 
Leviticus5:9 He must shake some of the blood onto the side of the altar. Then he must pour the blood that remains onto the ground in front of the altar. That bird is a sin offering. 
Leviticus5:10 The priest must then offer the other bird as a burnt offering. He must do this in the way that the rules say he should. This is how the priest will make the person clean from their sin. God will forgive the person when the priest does this. 
Leviticus5:11 The person may not have enough money to bring two doves or two young pigeons. If so, he must pay for his sin with a tenth of an ephah of the best flour. That will be his sin offering. He must not put any olive oil or incense on the flour, because it is a sin offering." 
Leviticus5:12 He must take it to the priest. The priest must take some of the flour in his hand. He will burn this on the altar as a gift to the Lord, together with the other gifts. The smell of the offering will give pleasure to the Lord. It is a sin offering to the Lord." 
Leviticus5:13 In this way the priest will make the person clean from any of these sins that he has done. God will forgive the person when the priest does this. The flour that remains will belong to the priest, as the grain offerings do.” ’" 
Leviticus5:14 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus5:15 ‘Someone may not obey the rules about the Lord 's holy things. He may not realize that he has done anything wrong, but he is guilty of a sin. He must bring a perfect male sheep as a guilt offering to the Lord, to pay for his sin. You must decide the value of the sheep in shekels of silver that they use in the holy place." 
Leviticus5:16 The person must also give money to pay for the holy thing which he spoiled. He must add one fifth more to its value. He must give the sheep and the money to the priest. The priest will offer the sheep as a guilt offering to make the person clean from their sin. God will forgive the person when the priest does this. 
Leviticus5:17 Someone may fail to obey one of the Lord 's commands. Even if he does not know that he has done this, he is guilty of a sin. He deserves punishment." 
Leviticus5:18 When he realizes what he has done, he must bring a perfect male sheep to the priest. That will be his guilt offering. You must decide the value of the sheep in shekels of silver that they use in the holy place. The priest will offer the sheep to the Lord to make the person clean from his mistake. He did a wrong thing but he did not realize it at the time. God will forgive the person when the priest does this." 
Leviticus5:19 The sheep is a guilt offering for that person. The person is guilty of a sin against the Lord.’ 
Leviticus6:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus6:2 ‘Someone may cheat another person, which is a sin against the Lord. He may deceive other people in different ways. He may keep something that belongs to them. It may be something that they have given to him to take care of. He may have robbed them. He may cheat them in other ways." 
Leviticus6:3 He may find something that another person has lost but he keeps it for himself. He may tell lies about it. He may say that he does not have it. He may deceive people in other ways that people do. 
Leviticus6:4 When someone does any of these sins, he is guilty. He must give back everything that he has taken from other people. He may have cheated other people. He may have kept something that belongs to them. He may have found something that they have lost." 
Leviticus6:5 He may have told lies about something so that he keeps it for himself. On the day when he knows that he is guilty, he must give back everything to the proper owner. He must also add one fifth more to its value." 
Leviticus6:6 He must bring a perfect male sheep as his guilt offering to the Lord. You must decide its value in shekels of silver. He must give this guilt offering to the priest. 
Leviticus6:7 The priest will offer the sheep to the Lord to make the person clean from his sin. Whatever sin the person has done to make him guilty, God will forgive him when the priest does this.’" 
Leviticus6:8 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus6:9 ‘Give this command to Aaron and his sons: “These are the rules about burnt offerings. The burnt offering must stay on the altar fire all night until the morning. The fire on the altar must continue to burn all night. 
Leviticus6:10 When the morning comes, the priest must dress himself in his linen robe. He must also wear linen trousers next to his skin. He must remove the ashes of the burnt offering that has burnt on the fire. He must put the ashes at the side of the altar." 
Leviticus6:11 Then he must dress himself in other clothes. He must carry the ashes outside the camp. He must put them in a special place that God has chosen. 
Leviticus6:12 The fire that is on the altar must always continue to burn. Every morning the priest must put more wood on the fire. He will put the animal for the burnt offering on top of the fire. He will also burn the fat of the friendship offerings on the fire. 
Leviticus6:13 The fire on the altar must always continue to burn. It must never stop burning. 
Leviticus6:14 These are the rules about grain offerings. Aaron's sons must take them in front of the altar to give them to the Lord. 
Leviticus6:15 A priest must take some of the pure flour and the olive oil in his hand. He must also take all the incense that is on the grain offering. He will burn this part of the offering on the altar as a gift to the Lord. The smell of the offering will give pleasure to the Lord. 
Leviticus6:16 Aaron and his sons may eat what remains of the friendship offerings. They must use it to make bread that has no yeast in it. Then they must eat it in a holy place, in the yard outside the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus6:17 The bread must not have any yeast in it. I have given this part of my offerings to the priests. It belongs to them. It is very holy, in the same way that the sin offerings and the guilt offerings are holy." 
Leviticus6:18 Any male descendant of Aaron may eat this part of the Lord 's offerings. This rule will be true for all time. Anyone who touches these offerings will be holy.” ’ 
Leviticus6:19 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus6:20 ‘On the day when you anoint Aaron and his sons, they must bring an offering to the Lord. It must be a tenth of an ephah of the best flour. It will be a regular grain offering. They must bring half of it in the morning and half of it in the evening." 
Leviticus6:21 They must mix it carefully with olive oil and they must cook it on a flat plate. Then they must break it into pieces and offer it to the Lord. The smell of it will give pleasure to the Lord. 
Leviticus6:22 The priest who must prepare the offering is Aaron's son that they anoint to take his father's place. This rule will continue for Aaron's descendants for all time. The priest must completely burn the whole offering as a gift to the Lord. 
Leviticus6:23 Every grain offering that a priest gives belongs to the Lord completely. Nobody may eat any of it.’ 
Leviticus6:24 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus6:25 ‘Tell Aaron and his sons, “These are the rules about sin offerings. They must kill the animal for a sin offering at the place where they kill the animals for burnt offerings. It is a very holy offering that they give to the Lord." 
Leviticus6:26 The priest who offers this sacrifice will eat his part of the animal. He must do that in a holy place, in the yard outside the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus6:27 If anyone touches the meat, they will be holy. If the blood splashes onto the clothes of a person, he must wash them in a holy place." 
Leviticus6:28 If a person uses a clay pot to cook the meat, he must then break the pot into pieces. If a person uses a metal pot to cook the meat, he must rub the pot very well to make it clean. Then he must wash it with clean water." 
Leviticus6:29 The meat is very holy. Only a male person who belongs to a priest's family may eat it. 
Leviticus6:30 But it is different if they take some blood from the sin offering into the Tent of Meeting. If they do that to make people clean from their sin, nobody may eat any meat from the offering. Instead, the priest must burn the animal completely in the fire.”" 
Leviticus7:1 Tell Aaron, “These are the rules about guilt offerings. It is a most holy offering." 
Leviticus7:2 They must kill the animal for a guilt offering at the place where they kill the animals for burnt offerings. The priest must throw the blood onto the sides of the altar. 
Leviticus7:3 The person who brings the offering must offer all the fat from the animal. That includes the fat part of its tail and the fat that is around its inside parts. 
Leviticus7:4 He must remove the two kidneys and the fat that is on them. He must also remove the bottom part of the liver. He must offer these to the Lord. 
Leviticus7:5 Then the priest must burn all these parts of the animal on the altar as a gift to the Lord. It is a guilt offering. 
Leviticus7:6 Any male person who belongs to a priest's family may eat the meat that remains. They must eat it in a holy place because it is very holy. 
Leviticus7:7 These rules are the same for sin offerings and for guilt offerings. The meat belongs to the priest who offers the animal to make a person clean from their sin. 
Leviticus7:8 But it is different with burnt offerings. The skin of the animal that the priest burns on the altar belongs to that priest. 
Leviticus7:9 If people bring a grain offering that they have cooked in an oven or on a flat plate, that offering belongs to the priest who offers it to the Lord." 
Leviticus7:10 It is different if the grain offering has dry grain, or the person has mixed the grain with olive oil. The grain from those offerings belongs to all the sons of Aaron, in equal parts." 
Leviticus7:11 These are the rules about sacrifices for friendship offerings which people may offer to the Lord. 
Leviticus7:12 If they do it to thank the Lord, they must bring these things together with the animal for the sacrifice: flat loaves of bread that have olive oil mixed in the flour, flat biscuits that have olive oil on them, and round loaves that have olive oil mixed with the best flour. None of these may have any yeast in them." 
Leviticus7:13 For their offering, they must also bring loaves of bread that have yeast in the flour." 
Leviticus7:14 They must offer one of each kind of these grain offerings to the Lord. These belong to the priest who throws the blood on the side of the altar for the friendship offering. 
Leviticus7:15 The people must eat the meat of the animal for the friendship offering on the same day that they offer it. They must not keep any of the meat until the next day. 
Leviticus7:16 It is different if people bring a friendship offering because of a promise that they have made to the Lord. Or if they do it because they choose to make a gift to the Lord. These people may eat some of the meat on the day that they offer the sacrifice. They may also eat the meat that remains on the next day. 
Leviticus7:17 But if any meat still remains on the third day, they must burn it completely." 
Leviticus7:18 If people eat any of the meat on the third day, the Lord will not accept their offering. The meat has become unclean, so God will not bless them for their offering. Instead, he will punish anyone who eats it on the third day." 
Leviticus7:19 If any of the meat touches something that is unclean, nobody may eat it. Instead, they must burn it completely. But anyone who is clean may eat the meat that remains." 
Leviticus7:20 Anyone who has not made themselves clean must not eat the meat of the sacrifice for a friendship offering. If they do that, they will no longer belong with Israel's people." 
Leviticus7:21 You become unclean if you touch anything that is unclean from a human, or from an animal or any other disgusting thing. If that happens, you must not eat the meat of the sacrifice for the friendship offering which belongs to the Lord. Anyone who eats it will no longer belong with Israel's people.” ’" 
Leviticus7:22 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus7:23 ‘Tell Israel's people, “You must not eat any fat from bulls, sheep or goats." 
Leviticus7:24 You may find the body of an animal that has died by itself, or wild animals have killed it. You must never eat the fat of that animal, but you may use the fat for any other purpose." 
Leviticus7:25 You must not eat the fat of an animal that you have offered to the Lord as a gift. Anyone who does that will no longer belong to Israel's people. 
Leviticus7:26 Wherever you live, you must not eat the blood of any birds or animals." 
Leviticus7:27 Anyone who eats any blood will no longer belong to Israel's people.” ’ 
Leviticus7:28 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus7:29 ‘Tell Israel's people, “When anyone brings a sacrifice for a friendship offering to the Lord, they must bring part of it as a gift to the Lord." 
Leviticus7:30 They must carry it in their own hands to burn on the altar. They must bring the animal's fat and the meat around its ribs. They must lift these up as a special offering to the Lord. 
Leviticus7:31 The priest will then burn the fat on the altar. But the meat around the ribs will belong to Aaron and his sons. 
Leviticus7:32 The top part of the back right leg of the animal is a gift to the priest. 
Leviticus7:33 It will belong to the priest who offers the blood and the fat for the friendship offering. 
Leviticus7:34 I have taken these parts of the animals that the Israelites bring as their friendship offerings. Those are the ribs that are lifted up to me, and the top part of the right leg that is a gift to the priests. I have taken these parts from the Israelite people and I have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons. That will always be the part that belongs to them.” ’" 
Leviticus7:35 The Lord gave this part of the Israelites' offerings to Aaron and to his descendants. This started on the day that they became priests to serve the Lord. 
Leviticus7:36 The Lord commanded the Israelites to do this on the day that Moses anointed them as priests. This part of the offerings would always belong to the priests. 
Leviticus7:37 These are the rules for burnt offerings, grain offerings, sin offerings, guilt offerings, friendship offerings and offerings for new priests." 
Leviticus7:38 The Lord gave these rules to Moses on Mount Sinai. On that day, the Lord commanded Israel's people to start making these offerings to him in the Sinai Desert." 
Leviticus8:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus8:2 ‘Bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. Also bring their special clothes and the olive oil to anoint them as priests. Bring the bull for the sin offering and the two male sheep for sacrifices. Bring the basket of flat bread with no yeast in it. 
Leviticus8:3 Tell all the people to come together in front of the Tent of Meeting.’ 
Leviticus8:4 Moses did what the Lord had commanded him to do. All the Israelite people met at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus8:5 Moses said to the people, ‘The Lord has commanded us to do this.’" 
Leviticus8:6 Moses told Aaron and his sons to stand in front of the people. He washed them with water. 
Leviticus8:7 Moses put the special shirt on Aaron. He tied the long belt around Aaron. He put the priest's robe on him. Then he put the ephod on him, with its belt. He used the belt to tie the ephod on Aaron." 
Leviticus8:8 He put the breastpiece on Aaron, and he put the Urim and Thummim in its pocket." 
Leviticus8:9 Moses put the linen hat on Aaron's head. He fixed the thin gold plate on the front of the hat, as a holy crown. Moses did this as the Lord had commanded him to do." 
Leviticus8:10 Moses took some of the special olive oil. He splashed it on the tabernacle and on everything in it. He did this to show that they belonged to God. 
Leviticus8:11 He splashed oil on the altar seven times. He put oil on the altar's tools, on the large bowl for water and on its base. He did this to show that they belonged to God." 
Leviticus8:12 Then Moses poured some of the oil on Aaron's head to anoint him. This made Aaron ready to serve God as his priest. 
Leviticus8:13 Then Moses told Aaron's sons to come forward. He put a robe on each of them. He tied long cloth belts around them. He put cloth hats on their heads. Moses did this as the Lord had commanded him to do. 
Leviticus8:14 Then Moses brought the bull for the sin offering. Aaron and his sons put their hands on the bull's head. 
Leviticus8:15 He killed the bull. Moses took some of the blood on his fingers. He put the blood on the four horns of the altar to make the altar clean. He poured out the blood that remained on the ground in front of the altar. In this way, he made the altar holy. It was now ready to make sacrifices for sin offerings." 
Leviticus8:16 Moses removed the fat that was around the inside parts of the bull. He removed the bottom part of its liver, as well as its two kidneys and the fat around them. He burned all these parts on the altar." 
Leviticus8:17 But Moses took outside the camp the parts of the bull that remained. There he completely burned its skin, its meat and the food in its stomach. Moses did this as the Lord had commanded him to do." 
Leviticus8:18 Moses then brought one of the male sheep to be a burnt offering. Aaron and his sons put their hands on the sheep's head. 
Leviticus8:19 He killed the sheep. Moses splashed its blood onto the sides of the altar. 
Leviticus8:20 He cut the sheep into pieces. He burned its head, the pieces of meat and the fat on the altar." 
Leviticus8:21 He used water to wash its inside parts and its legs. He burned the whole sheep on the altar as a burnt offering to the Lord. The smell of this gift while it was burning gave pleasure to the Lord. Moses did this as the Lord had commanded him to do. 
Leviticus8:22 Moses then brought the other male sheep to be a sacrifice for new priests. Aaron and his sons put their hands on the sheep's head. 
Leviticus8:23 He killed the sheep. Moses took some of its blood. He put it on Aaron's right ear, on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot." 
Leviticus8:24 Then Moses told Aaron's sons to come forward. He put blood on their right ears, on the thumbs of their right hands and on the toes of their right feet. Then he splashed the blood that remained onto the sides of the altar." 
Leviticus8:25 Moses took the fat part of the sheep's tail and the fat around its inside parts. He also took the bottom part of the liver and the two kidneys with their fat. With all the sheep's fat, he took the top part of its right back leg." 
Leviticus8:26 Moses took one round loaf of bread from the basket of flat bread that belonged to the Lord. He also took one loaf that had olive oil mixed in the flour. And he took one flat biscuit. He put them on top of the fat parts of the sheep and its right leg. 
Leviticus8:27 Then Moses put all of them on the hands of Aaron and his sons. They lifted them up as a special offering to the Lord. 
Leviticus8:28 Moses took them from their hands and he burned them on the altar, on top of the burnt offering. This was an offering for new priests. The smell of this offering while it was burning gave pleasure to the Lord." 
Leviticus8:29 Then Moses took the meat that was around the sheep's ribs. He lifted it up as a special offering to the Lord. This part belonged to Moses, as the Lord had commanded him." 
Leviticus8:30 Moses took some of the oil and some of the blood from the altar. He shook them on Aaron and his clothes. He also shook it on Aaron's sons and on their clothes. In this way he made them holy and ready to serve the Lord. 
Leviticus8:31 Moses said to Aaron and to his sons, ‘Cook the meat that remains at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. Eat the meat there, with the bread that is in the basket of bread for the offering. That is what the Lord has commanded you to do." 
Leviticus8:32 Completely burn any meat and bread that remain. 
Leviticus8:33 You must stay at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting for seven days. That is the time to prepare you to serve God as priests. You must not leave until the seven days have finished. 
Leviticus8:34 The things that we have done today are what the Lord has commanded us to do. We have done it to make you clean from your sins. 
Leviticus8:35 Remember to stay at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting for seven days and seven nights. Do everything that the Lord has commanded, so that he does not punish you with death. This is what the Lord has commanded me.’" 
Leviticus8:36 So Aaron and his sons did everything that the Lord had told Moses they must do. 
Leviticus9:1 On the eighth day, Moses told Aaron and his sons and the leaders of Israel to come." 
Leviticus9:2 He said to Aaron, ‘Bring a young bull for a sin offering. And bring a male sheep for a burnt offering. They must be perfect animals. Bring them as an offering to the Lord." 
Leviticus9:3 Then tell Israel's people, “Bring a male goat for a sin offering. Bring a young cow and a lamb for a burnt offering. The cow and the lamb must be one year old and they must be perfect." 
Leviticus9:4 Also bring a bull and a male sheep for a friendship offering that you will offer as a sacrifice to the Lord. And bring a grain offering of flour that is mixed with olive oil. Do this because the Lord will appear to you today.” ’ 
Leviticus9:5 The people brought all the animals and the grain to the front of the Tent of Meeting as Moses had commanded. All the Israelite people stood together there to worship the Lord. 
Leviticus9:6 Moses said to the people, ‘The Lord has commanded you to do this so that his bright glory will appear to you.’" 
Leviticus9:7 Moses said to Aaron, ‘Go to the altar to offer your sin offering and your burnt offering to the Lord. Do that to make yourself clean from your sins and to make the people clean from their sins. Also offer the people's offerings to make them clean from their sins. The Lord has commanded you to do this.’" 
Leviticus9:8 So Aaron went to the altar. He killed the young bull that was a sin offering for himself. 
Leviticus9:9 Aaron's sons brought the blood to him. He put his finger in the blood and he put it on the four horns of the altar. He poured the blood that remained onto the ground in front of the altar. 
Leviticus9:10 Aaron took the bull's fat, its kidneys and the bottom part of its liver. He burnt these parts on the altar, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Leviticus9:11 But Moses took the meat and the skin of the bull outside the camp. There he completely burned it. 
Leviticus9:12 Then Aaron killed the male sheep for the burnt offering. His sons brought the blood to him. He splashed it onto the sides of the altar. 
Leviticus9:13 His sons brought the pieces of the sheep to him, including its head. Aaron burned them on the altar." 
Leviticus9:14 He washed the sheep's inside parts and its legs. He burned them on top of the burnt offering on the altar. 
Leviticus9:15 Then Aaron brought to the altar the male goat which was the sin offering for the people. He killed it as a sacrifice to make the people clean, like the first offering." 
Leviticus9:16 Then Aaron brought the animal for the burnt offering. He offered it as a sacrifice in the proper way. 
Leviticus9:17 He also brought the grain offering. He took some of it in his hand. He burned it on the altar together with the burnt offering of that morning. 
Leviticus9:18 Aaron killed the bull and the male sheep which were friendship offerings for the people. His sons brought the blood to him. He splashed it onto the sides of the altar. 
Leviticus9:19 His sons also took the fat pieces from the bull and from the male sheep. They took the fat part of the tail, the fat around the inside parts, the kidneys and the bottom part of the liver." 
Leviticus9:20 They put those pieces on the meat of the animal's ribs. Aaron burned the fat pieces of the animals on the altar as an offering. 
Leviticus9:21 Then Aaron lifted up the meat of the ribs and the top part of the right leg of each animal as a special offering to the Lord. He did this as Moses had commanded him to do. 
Leviticus9:22 Aaron had now finished making the sin offering, the burnt offering and the friendship offering. He lifted up his hands towards the people and he asked God to bless them. Then he came down from the altar." 
Leviticus9:23 Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of Meeting. When they came out, they asked God to bless the people. The bright glory of the Lord appeared to all the people." 
Leviticus9:24 Then the Lord sent a fire to completely burn the burnt offering and the fat pieces that were on the altar. When the people saw this, they shouted loudly. They fell down with their faces towards the ground." 
Leviticus10:1 Aaron's sons, Nadab and Abihu, took their pots which held hot coals. They put fire in the pots and they put incense on top. They used it as an offering to the Lord which was wrong. They did it in a way that the Lord had not commanded them to do." 
Leviticus10:2 The Lord suddenly sent fire to completely burn Nadab and Abihu. They died there in front of the Lord 's altar. 
Leviticus10:3 Then Moses said to Aaron, ‘This is what the Lord said: “People who serve me as priests must respect me. They must realize that I am holy. All the people must know that they should give me honour.” ’ Aaron did not say anything." 
Leviticus10:4 Then Moses told Mishael and Elzaphan to come to him. They were sons of Aaron's uncle, Uzziel. Moses said to them, ‘Come here and carry Nadab and Abihu away from the front of the holy tent. Take their bodies to a place outside the camp.’" 
Leviticus10:5 Nadab and Abihu were still wearing their special robes. Mishael and Elzaphan carried them outside the camp, as Moses had told them to do." 
Leviticus10:6 Then Moses spoke to Aaron and to his other sons, Eleazar and Ithamar. He told them, ‘Make your hair look nice. Do not tear your clothes. If you show that you are sad, you will die. The Lord will also be angry with all the people. But your relatives, the Israelite people, should weep. They should be sad because the Lord has killed Nadab and Abihu with fire." 
Leviticus10:7 Do not go away from the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. If you do that, you will die, because the Lord has anointed you as his priests.’ So Aaron and his sons did as Moses had said." 
Leviticus10:8 Then the Lord said to Aaron," 
Leviticus10:9 ‘Do not drink any wine before you go into the Tent of Meeting. Do not drink anything that contains alcohol. If you do, you will die. This rule will continue for ever, for all your descendants." 
Leviticus10:10 You must know the difference between things that are holy and things that are ordinary. You must know what is clean and what is unclean. 
Leviticus10:11 You must teach the Israelites all the laws that I told Moses to give to them.’ 
Leviticus10:12 Moses said to Aaron and to his sons who still lived, Eleazar and Ithamar, ‘Take the part of the grain offering that you did not burn as a gift to the Lord. Use it to make bread that has no yeast in it. Eat it beside the altar, because it is a very holy offering." 
Leviticus10:13 You must eat it in a holy place. It is the part of the grain offering that belongs to you and to your sons. The Lord has given it to you from his special gifts. These are the commands that the Lord has given to me. 
Leviticus10:14 The Lord has also given you parts of the offerings that are lifted up to him. He has given you the meat around the ribs and the top part of the back leg. You may eat these parts. Your sons and your daughters may eat them too. You may only eat these parts in a place that is clean. They belong to you and to your sons. The Lord has given them to you from the friendship offerings that the Israelites give to him. 
Leviticus10:15 Bring the top of the leg and the meat of the ribs, as well as the fat parts of the animal. Lift them up as a special gift to the Lord. These parts will belong to you and to your descendants. This is a rule that will continue for ever, as the Lord has commanded.’" 
Leviticus10:16 After that, Moses looked carefully for the male goat that was the sacrifice for the sin offering. He discovered that they had already burnt it on the fire. So Moses was angry with Aaron's sons, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
Leviticus10:17 Moses asked them, ‘Why did you not stay near the holy place to eat the meat of the sin offering? It is a very holy offering. The Lord gave you this sacrifice so that the people would not be guilty. It is a sacrifice to make the people clean from their sins." 
Leviticus10:18 Look! You did not bring the blood of the goat for the sacrifice into the holy place. So you should have eaten its meat near the holy tent, as I commanded you.’" 
Leviticus10:19 Aaron said to Moses, ‘Today the people brought their sin offering and their burnt offering to the Lord. But these terrible things have happened to me! If I had eaten the meat of the sin offering today, that would not have pleased the Lord.’" 
Leviticus10:20 When Moses heard Aaron's reply, he was not angry any more." 
Leviticus11:1 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Leviticus11:2 ‘Tell the Israelites, “These are the animals that you may eat from among the animals which live on the land." 
Leviticus11:3 You may eat animals which have feet in two separate parts. They must also be animals which bring their food back into their mouths and eat it again. 
Leviticus11:4 Some animals have feet in two separate parts but they do not eat their food twice. Other animals eat their food twice but their feet do not have two separate parts. You must not eat those animals. Camels eat their food twice but their feet are not in two separate parts. So camels are not clean for you to eat. 
Leviticus11:5 Rock badgers also eat their food twice but their feet are not in two separate parts. So they are also unclean. 
Leviticus11:6 Rabbits also eat their food twice but their feet are not in two separate parts. They are unclean too. 
Leviticus11:7 Pigs have feet that are in two completely separate parts. But pigs do not bring their food back to eat it a second time. So pigs are not clean for you to eat. 
Leviticus11:8 You must not eat the meat from these animals. You must not touch their dead bodies. They are unclean animals for you. 
Leviticus11:9 These are the rules about animals that live in rivers or in the sea. If they have both fins and scales on their bodies, you may eat them." 
Leviticus11:10 But you must not eat anything that does not have both fins and scales. That includes fish or any other animals that live in water. They are disgusting for you. 
Leviticus11:11 So do not eat their meat or touch their dead bodies. 
Leviticus11:12 Any fish or other animals that live in water and do not have both fins and scales are unclean. Keep away from them. 
Leviticus11:13 These are the rules about birds. These birds are disgusting so do not eat them: eagles, vultures," 
Leviticus11:14 buzzards, kites, all kinds of crows, different kinds of owls, seagulls, hawks, cormorants, ospreys, herons, hoopoes and bats." 
Leviticus11:15  
Leviticus11:16  
Leviticus11:17  
Leviticus11:18  
Leviticus11:19  
Leviticus11:20 These are the rules about insects that fly in the air and also walk on the ground. They are disgusting and you must not eat them. 
Leviticus11:21 But some of these insects have legs that they can use to jump. You may eat those kinds of insects. 
Leviticus11:22 You may eat any kinds of locusts, crickets and grasshoppers." 
Leviticus11:23 But you must not eat any other insects that fly and they also walk on the ground. 
Leviticus11:24 All these animals will make you unclean if you touch the dead body of one of them. If you do touch one, you will be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus11:25 If you carry a body of one of these animals, you must wash your clothes. But you will still be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus11:26 Do not touch an animal that does not have feet in two completely separate parts. Do not touch an animal that does not bring food back into its mouth to eat it again. If you touch the dead body of any of these animals, you become unclean." 
Leviticus11:27 Do not touch the dead body of an animal that has paws to walk on. If you do touch one, you will be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus11:28 If you carry a body of one of these animals, you must wash your clothes. But you will still be unclean until the evening. These animals are unclean for you." 
Leviticus11:29 These are the rules about animals that move near to the ground. These animals are unclean for you: moles, rats, different kinds of lizards, geckos and chameleons." 
Leviticus11:30  
Leviticus11:31 If you touch the dead body of one of them, you will be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus11:32 If one of them dies and it falls onto something, that thing becomes unclean too. That includes things made of wood, leather or sackcloth, whatever people use them for. You must put it into water. It will be unclean until the evening. Then it will be clean again." 
Leviticus11:33 If one of these dead animals falls into a clay pot, everything in the pot becomes unclean. You must break the pot." 
Leviticus11:34 If you pour water from the pot onto food, the food becomes unclean. Anything in the pot which you could drink also becomes unclean." 
Leviticus11:35 If one of these dead animals falls onto something, that thing becomes unclean, whatever it is. If it is an oven or a cooking pot, you must break it into pieces. It has become unclean and you must not use it." 
Leviticus11:36 But if one of these dead animals falls into a spring of water, the water will still be clean. The same is true if it falls into a well where people keep clean water. But the person who removes the dead animal will become unclean." 
Leviticus11:37 If one of these dead animals falls onto some dry seeds, they will still be clean. You may plant them in your fields." 
Leviticus11:38 But if the seeds are wet and the dead animal falls onto them, they become unclean. Do not use them." 
Leviticus11:39 An animal that is good for food might die. If anyone touches its dead body, he will be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus11:40 If anyone eats meat from it, he must wash his clothes. He will still be unclean until the evening. If a person carries the body of the dead animal, he must wash his clothes. He will be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus11:41 You must not eat small animals that move across the ground. 
Leviticus11:42 This includes animals that move along the ground on their stomachs and animals that walk on four legs or on many legs. All those things that move near to the ground are disgusting. Do not eat them. 
Leviticus11:43 Do not allow those small animals to make you unclean. Do not become disgusting yourselves, as they are." 
Leviticus11:44 I am the Lord your God. So keep yourselves separate from these unclean things. You must be holy, because I am holy. Make yourselves holy. Do not allow any of these small animals that move across the ground to make you unclean." 
Leviticus11:45 I am the Lord. I brought you out of the land of Egypt so that I would be your God. So you must be holy, because I am holy." 
Leviticus11:46 These are the rules about animals which live on the land, about the birds, about all the animals that live in water and about all the animals which move across the ground." 
Leviticus11:47 You must learn the difference between animals that are unclean and animals that are clean. You must know which animals you may eat and which animals you must not eat.” ’ 
Leviticus12:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus12:2 ‘Tell the Israelites, “When a woman gives birth to a boy, she will be unclean for seven days. She is unclean, as she is when she is bleeding each month." 
Leviticus12:3 Eight days after the boy is born, they must circumcise him." 
Leviticus12:4 His mother must wait for 33 days after the birth before she becomes clean again. During this time, she must not touch anything that is holy. She must not go into the holy place. After this time, she will become clean." 
Leviticus12:5 If a woman gives birth to a girl, the mother will be unclean for two weeks. She is unclean, as she is when she is bleeding each month. She must wait for 66 days after the birth until she becomes clean again." 
Leviticus12:6 The mother must wait for the right number of days after she gives birth to a son or a daughter. When those days have finished, she must come to the priest at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. She must bring a lamb that is one year old for a burnt offering. She must also bring a pigeon or a dove for a sin offering." 
Leviticus12:7 The priest will offer the gifts to the Lord to make the woman clean again. These are the rules for a mother who gives birth to a boy or a girl. 
Leviticus12:8 If the mother does not have enough money to buy a lamb, she may bring two doves or two pigeons instead. One bird will be for a burnt offering. The other bird will be for a sin offering. The priest will offer these to the Lord to make the woman clean again.” ’" 
Leviticus13:1 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Leviticus13:2 ‘A person may have a mark on his skin like a sore or a boil. It might become a bad disease that he could give to other people. If he has a mark like that, you must bring him to Aaron or one of his sons, the priests." 
Leviticus13:3 The priest must look at the mark on the person's skin. The hair on the mark may have become white, and the mark may go deep under the skin. If that is so, the person has a bad disease in his skin. If the priest sees that, he must say that the person is unclean." 
Leviticus13:4 But the mark may be a bright place on the person's skin. It may not go deep under the skin. The hair on the mark may not be white. If those things are true, the priest must keep the person separate from other people for seven days." 
Leviticus13:5 On the seventh day, the priest must look carefully at the person's skin again. The mark may not have changed. It may not have grown bigger across the skin. If that is true, the priest must keep the person separate from other people for seven more days." 
Leviticus13:6 On the seventh day, the priest must again look carefully at the person's skin. The mark may not show as clearly as before and it may not have grown any bigger. If that is true, the priest will say that the person is now clean from the disease. The mark on his skin is not dangerous. The person must wash his clothes and then he will be clean." 
Leviticus13:7 But after the person has shown his mark to the priest, it might grow bigger across his skin. If that happens, the person must go and show his skin to the priest a second time." 
Leviticus13:8 The priest must look carefully at the mark. If it has become bigger, the priest must say that the person is unclean. It is a bad disease of the skin." 
Leviticus13:9 If a person has a bad disease in his skin, you must bring him to the priest." 
Leviticus13:10 The priest must look carefully at the mark on the person's skin. The mark may be white and it may grow up above the skin. The hair on it may have become white. It may be a sore that has pus in it. 
Leviticus13:11 If those things are true, it is a disease that continues for a long time. The priest must say that the person is unclean. The priest does not need to keep him separate from other people. They already know that he is unclean." 
Leviticus13:12 It is different if the disease has grown completely across all the person's skin. The priest may see that it covers the whole body, from the person's head to his feet." 
Leviticus13:13 The priest must carefully look at the person's skin. If the skin has become white across the person's whole body, the priest must say that the person is clean." 
Leviticus13:14 But if there is a sore with pus anywhere on the person's skin, the person is unclean." 
Leviticus13:15 The priest must look carefully at the sore and say that the person is unclean. He still has a disease in his skin. 
Leviticus13:16 If the sore changes and it becomes white, the person must go to the priest." 
Leviticus13:17 The priest must look carefully at the skin. If the skin has become white, the priest will say that the person is now clean again. The disease has finished." 
Leviticus13:18 A person might have a boil on his skin. Then it might get better. 
Leviticus13:19 There may be a white mark that grows up above the skin where the boil had been. Or there may be a bright mark on the skin that seems to be red. If this happens, the person must go to the priest." 
Leviticus13:20 The priest will look carefully at the mark on the person's skin. The mark may seem to grow deep under the skin and the hair on it may be white. If this is true, the priest must say that the person is unclean. The person has a bad disease in the place where the boil had been." 
Leviticus13:21 But the priest may see that the mark does not have white hair. It may not go deep under the skin and it may not show very clearly. If that is true, the priest must keep the person separate from other people for seven days." 
Leviticus13:22 If the mark continues to grow across the skin, the priest must say that the person is unclean. He has a bad disease." 
Leviticus13:23 But the mark may not grow bigger across the person's skin. This shows that it is a mark from the boil and it is not a bad disease. The priest must say that the person is clean. 
Leviticus13:24 A person may have burnt his skin. Because of that, there might be a mark on his skin that seems to be red or bright white." 
Leviticus13:25 The priest must look carefully at the mark. The hair on the bright mark may have become white. The mark may seem to grow deep under the skin. This shows that the place where the person burnt himself has become a bad disease in his skin. The priest must say that the person is unclean. He might give the disease to other people. 
Leviticus13:26 But the priest may see that the mark does not have white hair. It may not go deep under the skin and it may not show very clearly. If that is true, the priest must keep the person separate from other people for seven days." 
Leviticus13:27 On the seventh day, the priest must look carefully at the mark. If the mark is growing bigger across the skin, the priest must say that the person is unclean. He has a bad disease." 
Leviticus13:28 But the mark may not have grown across the person's skin. It may not show so clearly. This shows that it is a mark from the place where the person burnt his skin. The priest must say that the person is clean. 
Leviticus13:29 A man or a woman may have a sore on their head or on their chin. 
Leviticus13:30 The priest must look carefully at the sore. The sore may seem to go deep under the skin. It may have hair in it that is thin and yellow. If this is true, the priest must say that the person is unclean. This kind of sore is a bad disease on the person's head or on their chin." 
Leviticus13:31 But the sore may not go deep below the skin. There may be no hair in it that is black. If the priest sees that, he must keep the person separate from other people for seven days." 
Leviticus13:32 On the seventh day, the priest must look carefully at the sore. The sore may not have grown bigger. There may be no hair in it that is yellow. It may not go deep under the skin." 
Leviticus13:33 If that is true, the person must cut the hair off their head. But they must not cut the hair off where the sore is. Then the priest must keep the person separate from other people for seven more days." 
Leviticus13:34 On the seventh day, the priest must look carefully at the sore again. The sore may not have grown bigger and it may not go deep under the person's skin. Then the priest must say that the person is clean. The person must wash their clothes and then they will be clean." 
Leviticus13:35 But after that, the sore may grow bigger again across the person's skin." 
Leviticus13:36 If that happens, the priest must look carefully at the sore. If it has become bigger, the person is unclean. The priest does not need to look for yellow hair." 
Leviticus13:37 But the sore may not have changed. Black hair may have started to grow in it. If that is true, the disease has left the person. The priest must say that the person is clean." 
Leviticus13:38 A man or a woman may have white marks on their skin. 
Leviticus13:39 The priest must look carefully at the marks. If the colour of the marks is not bright, it is not a dangerous disease in the skin. The person is clean." 
Leviticus13:40 The hair may disappear from a man's head until he is bald. That man is clean. 
Leviticus13:41 If the hair disappears from the front of the man's head until that part is bald, the man is clean." 
Leviticus13:42 But if there is a red sore on the bald place at the top or at the back of the man's head, it is a bad disease." 
Leviticus13:43 The priest must look carefully at the sore. The sore in the bald place may grow up above the skin and it may seem to be red. If it looks like a skin disease that appears in other places of a person's body," 
Leviticus13:44 the man has a bad disease. He is unclean. The priest must say that the man is unclean because of the sore on his head. 
Leviticus13:45 Any person who has a bad disease in his skin must tear his clothes. He must not make his hair look nice. He must cover the lower part of his face. He must shout, “I am unclean.”" 
Leviticus13:46 All the time that he has the bad skin disease he will continue to be unclean. He must live in a separate place from other people, outside the camp." 
Leviticus13:47 Mould may grow on clothes that are made of wool or linen. 
Leviticus13:48 It may grow on any piece of linen or wool, or on anything made of leather." 
Leviticus13:49 If the mould on any of these things seems to be green or red, it is a bad mould. The person who has the piece of cloth must show it to the priest." 
Leviticus13:50 The priest must look carefully at the mould. He must keep the thing that has the mould on it separate from other things for seven days. 
Leviticus13:51 On the seventh day, the priest must look at the mould again. If the place that has the mould is growing bigger, it is a dangerous mould. Whatever the thing is made of, cloth or leather, it is unclean." 
Leviticus13:52 The priest must burn the piece of cloth or the piece of leather which has the mould. Because it has a dangerous mould, the priest must use fire to destroy it." 
Leviticus13:53 When the priest looks at the piece of cloth or leather on the seventh day, the mould might not have grown bigger." 
Leviticus13:54 If that is true, he must tell the person to wash the thing that has the mould. Then he must keep it separate from other things for seven more days." 
Leviticus13:55 The priest must again look carefully at the piece of cloth after the person has washed it. If the mould still looks the same, the piece of cloth is unclean. Even if the mould has not grown bigger, the cloth is unclean. You must use fire to destroy the piece of cloth or leather. You must do this whether the mould is on the inside or the outside of it." 
Leviticus13:56 When the priest looks at the piece of cloth after the person has washed it, the mould may not show so clearly. If that happens, the priest must tear the part that has mould on it out of the piece of cloth or leather." 
Leviticus13:57 After that, if the mould appears again in the piece of cloth or the piece of leather, it is a dangerous mould that may destroy other things. You must use fire to destroy the thing that has the mould on it." 
Leviticus13:58 But if the mould disappears after you have washed it the first time, it is no longer dangerous. You must wash the piece of cloth or leather a second time. Then it will be clean.’" 
Leviticus13:59 These are the rules for mould that grows on cloth that is made of wool or linen. They are also the rules for mould that grows on leather things. They tell the priest how to decide if the things are clean or unclean. 
Leviticus14:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus14:2 ‘These rules are for a person who has had a bad disease in his skin. When the disease has finished, you must bring him to the priest to make him clean." 
Leviticus14:3 The priest must go outside the camp and he must look carefully at the person's skin. If the disease has gone away," 
Leviticus14:4 this is what the priest must do. He must tell someone to bring two birds that are alive. They must be birds that are good for food. They must also bring a piece of wood from a cedar tree, some red wool and a branch of hyssop. The priest will use these to make the person clean." 
Leviticus14:5 The priest will command someone to kill one of the birds. He must do that over a clay pot that has fresh water in it. The blood of the dead bird will mix with the water. 
Leviticus14:6 The priest will take the living bird, the piece of cedar wood, the red wool and the hyssop. He will make them wet with the blood of the dead bird." 
Leviticus14:7 Then the priest will shake the blood over the person who had the disease. He will do this seven times. The priest will then say that the person is clean. He will let the living bird go so that it flies away. 
Leviticus14:8 The person who has become well from the disease must wash his clothes. He must cut off all his hair and wash his body with water. Then he will be clean. After that, he can go into the camp. But he must stay outside his tent for seven days." 
Leviticus14:9 On the seventh day, he must completely cut off all his hair. That includes all the hair of his head and his face. He must wash his clothes. He must wash his body with water. Then he will be clean." 
Leviticus14:10 On the eighth day, the person must bring two male lambs and one female lamb that is one year old. Both the animals must be perfect. He must also bring three tenths of an ephah of the best flour that is mixed with olive oil as a grain offering. And he must bring a cup of olive oil." 
Leviticus14:11 He must take these to the priest who is making him clean. The priest must tell the person to stand at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. He must bring his offerings to the Lord there. 
Leviticus14:12 The priest must take one of the male lambs and the cup of olive oil. He must lift them up to the Lord as a special gift. 
Leviticus14:13 He must kill the male lamb in the holy place where they kill the animals for sin offerings and burnt offerings. The guilt offering belongs to the priest, as the sin offering does. It is a very holy offering." 
Leviticus14:14 The priest must put some of the blood from the guilt offering on the lowest part of the person's right ear. He must put some blood on the thumb of the person's right hand. And he must put some blood on the big toe of the person's right foot. 
Leviticus14:15 The priest must pour some of the olive oil from the cup into his own left hand. 
Leviticus14:16 He must put one finger of his right hand into the oil that is in his left hand. He must shake the oil seven times in front of the Lord. 
Leviticus14:17 The priest must then take the oil that remains in his left hand. He must put some of it on the lowest part of the person's right ear. He must put some of the oil on the thumb of the person's right hand. And he must put some of it on the big toe of the person's right foot. He will put the oil on top of the blood from the offering. 
Leviticus14:18 The priest must take the oil that still remains in his left hand. He must put it on the person's head. In this way the priest will make the person clean from his disease in front of the Lord. 
Leviticus14:19 Then the priest must kill the animal for the sin offering. This makes the person who had the disease clean from his sins. After that, the priest will kill the animal for the burnt offering." 
Leviticus14:20 He will offer this as a sacrifice on the altar, together with the grain offering. The priest will do all these things to make the person who had the disease completely clean." 
Leviticus14:21 If the person is too poor to bring all these offerings, he may bring these things instead. He must bring one male lamb as a guilt offering to lift up in front of the Lord. That will be an offering to make him clean from his disease. He must also bring a tenth of an ephah of the best flour that is mixed with olive oil as a grain offering. And he must bring a cup of olive oil." 
Leviticus14:22 The person must also bring two birds that he has enough money to buy. They must be doves or pigeons. One bird will be for a sin offering and the other one will be for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus14:23 On the eighth day, the person must bring his offerings to the Lord. He must bring them to the priest at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting to make himself clean." 
Leviticus14:24 The priest will take the male lamb and the cup of oil. He will lift them up as a special gift to the Lord. 
Leviticus14:25 Then he will kill the lamb which is the guilt offering. He will put some of its blood on the lowest part of the person's right ear. He will put some of the blood on the thumb of the person's right hand. And he will put some of it on the big toe of the person's right foot. 
Leviticus14:26 The priest will pour some of the oil into his own left hand. 
Leviticus14:27 He will put one finger of his right hand into the oil. He will shake the oil seven times in front of the Lord. 
Leviticus14:28 He will put some oil from his hand on the lowest part of the person's right ear. He will also put some oil on the thumb of the person's right hand. And he will put some oil on the big toe of the person's right foot. He will put the oil on the same places that he put the blood from the guilt offering. 
Leviticus14:29 The priest must take the oil that still remains in his left hand. He must put it on the person's head. In that way the priest will make the person clean from his disease in front of the Lord. 
Leviticus14:30 Then the priest will offer the pigeons or the doves that the person has been able to buy. 
Leviticus14:31 One bird will be for a sin offering. The other will be for a burnt offering. The priest will offer these together with the grain offering. In this way the priest will make the person clean in front of the Lord. 
Leviticus14:32 These are the rules for a poor person who had a bad disease in his skin. These are the offerings he must bring to make himself clean if he is too poor to bring all the usual offerings.’ 
Leviticus14:33 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Leviticus14:34 ‘One day you will go into Canaan, the land that I am giving to you as your home. When you are living there, I may cause mould to come in one of your houses." 
Leviticus14:35 If a person finds mould in his house, he must tell the priest. He must say, “I can see something like a bad mould in my house.”" 
Leviticus14:36 The priest will tell the person to take everything out of the house. If the person does not do that, all the things in the house will become unclean. He must do it before the priest goes to look at the house." 
Leviticus14:37 The priest will look carefully at the walls of the house. He will see if the mould has green or red marks in it. He will see if the mould goes deep into the wall. 
Leviticus14:38 If the priest sees those things, he will go outside the house. He will lock it to stay shut for seven days." 
Leviticus14:39 On the seventh day, the priest will return to the house. He will look carefully at the mould again. It may have grown bigger across the walls of the house." 
Leviticus14:40 If that has happened, the priest must say, “You must remove the stones that have mould on them. You must take them outside the town. You must put them in a special place for unclean things.”" 
Leviticus14:41 The person must then remove the clay that covers all the inside walls of the house. He must put the clay outside the town in a place for unclean things. 
Leviticus14:42 The person who lives in the house must get some other stones and some more clay. He will use those instead of the unclean stones and clay that he removed. 
Leviticus14:43 After he has done all those things, the person might see that the mould has come back again." 
Leviticus14:44 The priest will come to the house and look carefully at the mould. If the mould has grown again across the walls, this shows that it is a dangerous mould. The house is unclean." 
Leviticus14:45 The person must completely knock down his house. He must remove all the stones, the pieces of wood and the clay. He must put them all outside the town in a place for unclean things." 
Leviticus14:46 A person might go into the house during the time that the priest has shut it because of the mould. That person will become unclean until evening. 
Leviticus14:47 Anyone who sleeps in the house must wash their clothes. And anyone who eats in the house must also wash their clothes. 
Leviticus14:48 After the person has mended his house, the priest may see that the mould has not grown again. The priest will then say that the house is clean." 
Leviticus14:49 He must take two birds, a piece of wood from a cedar tree, some red wool and a branch of hyssop. He will use these to make the house clean." 
Leviticus14:50 He will kill one of the birds over a clay pot that has fresh water in it. The blood of the dead bird will mix with the water. 
Leviticus14:51 The priest will then take the piece of cedar wood, the hyssop, the red wool and the other bird that is still alive. He will make them wet with the blood of the dead bird and the fresh water. He will shake the blood and water over the house seven times." 
Leviticus14:52 In this way, the priest will make the house clean. He will use the blood of the dead bird, the fresh water, the living bird, the piece of cedar wood, the hyssop and the red wool." 
Leviticus14:53 Then the priest will take the living bird outside the town. He will let the bird fly away over the fields. In this way he will make the house clean from the mould.’ 
Leviticus14:54 These are the rules for all kinds of bad disease. 
Leviticus14:55 They include rules for mould that grows on cloth or on the walls of a house. 
Leviticus14:56 They include rules for sores and boils and marks on someone's skin. 
Leviticus14:57 They show if a person has a dangerous disease in their skin. They show whether the person is clean or he is unclean. 
Leviticus15:1 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Leviticus15:2 ‘Tell Israel's people, “If any kind of pus is coming out of a man's body, it makes the man unclean." 
Leviticus15:3 It does not matter whether the pus continues to leave the man's body or it stays inside. It causes the man to be unclean. 
Leviticus15:4 If the man lies on a bed, it becomes unclean. Anything that the man sits on also becomes unclean." 
Leviticus15:5 Anyone who touches the bed must wash his clothes and his whole body. He will continue to be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:6 If anyone sits on anything that the man has sat on, they will also become unclean. So they must wash their clothes and their whole body. They will be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:7 Someone might touch the man who has pus coming from his body. If that happens, they must wash their clothes and their whole body. They will be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:8 The man who is unclean might spit on another person. Then the other person must wash their clothes and their whole body. They will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:9 The man might sit on something to ride on a horse or a donkey. Whatever he sits on will become unclean. 
Leviticus15:10 Someone might touch or carry any of the things that the man has sat on. Then that person must wash their clothes and their whole body. They will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:11 The unclean man might not wash his hands before he touches another person. The person that he touched then becomes unclean. That person must wash their clothes and their whole body. They will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:12 If the unclean man touches a clay pot, you must break it. If he touches a wooden bowl, you must wash it with clean water." 
Leviticus15:13 The man who has had the pus coming from his body might become well again. He must count seven days after the pus has gone. Then he must wash his clothes. He must wash his whole body in clean water. Then he will be clean. 
Leviticus15:14 On the eighth day, he must bring two birds to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. They must be doves or pigeons. He must give them to the priest to offer to the Lord." 
Leviticus15:15 The priest will use one of the birds for a sin offering. He will use the other bird for a burnt offering. In this way the priest will make the man clean before the Lord. The pus that came from his body no longer causes him to be unclean. 
Leviticus15:16 When semen comes out of a man by mistake, he must wash his whole body. He will be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:17 He must wash any clothes or leather things that has his semen on them. They will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:18 When a man has sex with a woman, some of his semen might splash out. If that happens, they must both wash their bodies. They will be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:19 Blood comes out from a woman's body every month. When this happens, she will be unclean for seven days. If anyone touches her during this time, they will be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:20 During the time that the woman is bleeding, if she lies on anything, it becomes unclean. And if she sits on anything, it becomes unclean." 
Leviticus15:21 If anyone touches her bed, they must wash their clothes and their whole body. They will be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:22 If anyone touches something that the woman has sat on, they too must wash their clothes and their whole body. They will be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:23 This is true for anything that the woman has sat on, including her bed. If anyone touches any of these things, they will be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:24 A man might have sex with a woman during the time that she is bleeding. If her blood touches him, he will be unclean for seven days. Any bed that the man lies on also becomes unclean." 
Leviticus15:25 A woman is unclean all the time that blood is coming out of her body. This is true if it happens at a different time in the month. It is also true if it continues at the usual time for more than seven days. It is all the same. She is unclean. 
Leviticus15:26 The rule is the same as when she is bleeding at the usual time of the month. During any time that she is bleeding, anything that she sits on or she lies on becomes unclean." 
Leviticus15:27 Anyone who touches those things will also be unclean. They must wash their clothes and their whole body. They will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:28 When the woman stops bleeding, she must count seven days. Then she will be clean." 
Leviticus15:29 On the eighth day, she must bring two birds to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. They must be doves or pigeons. She must give them to the priest." 
Leviticus15:30 The priest will use one of the birds for a sin offering. He will use the other bird for a burnt offering. In this way the priest will make the woman who had been bleeding clean before the Lord. 
Leviticus15:31 In this way you will keep Israel's people separate from things that make them unclean. They will not cause my tabernacle to become unclean. That is the place where I live among them. If they make that place unclean, I would punish them with death.” ’" 
Leviticus15:32 These are the rules for anyone who has any kind of pus that comes out of their body. Or it may be semen that comes from a man's sex part. These things cause him to be unclean. 
Leviticus15:33 They are also the rules for a woman during the time when she bleeds each month. They are the rules for any man or woman who becomes unclean because of these things. They are also the rules for a man who has sex with a woman during the time that she is unclean. 
Leviticus16:1 The Lord spoke to Moses after two of Aaron's sons had died. They had burned incense in front of the Lord in a way that was wrong. The Lord punished them with death. 
Leviticus16:2 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Tell your brother Aaron that he must not go behind the curtain into the Most Holy Place of the tabernacle. He must not do that at any time that he wants to. I appear in a cloud over the lid of the Covenant Box that is in there. So Aaron will die if he goes in there when it is not the proper time." 
Leviticus16:3 This is what Aaron must do when he goes into the holy place. He must bring a young bull for a sin offering. He must also bring a male sheep for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus16:4 He must wash his whole body before he puts on his special clothes, because they are holy. He must wear a holy linen robe and linen trousers next to his skin. He must tie a linen belt around his body. He must put a linen hat on his head." 
Leviticus16:5 Israel's people must also give him two male goats for a sin offering and one male sheep for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus16:6 Aaron must offer the bull as a sin offering. This will make him clean from his own sins. It will also make the people in his house clean from their sins. 
Leviticus16:7 Then he must take the two goats to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. There he must offer them to the Lord. 
Leviticus16:8 He must throw special stones to decide what he should do with each goat. One stone will have a mark for the Lord. The other stone will have a mark for Azazel. 
Leviticus16:9 Aaron must take the goat that the stone showed is for the Lord. He must kill it as a sin offering. 
Leviticus16:10 But he must bring the other goat in front of the Lord while it is alive. He will send it away to escape into the desert. In that way, it will take away the sins of the people and it will make them clean." 
Leviticus16:11 Aaron must offer the bull which is for a sin offering. This will make him clean from his own sins. It will also make the people in his house clean from their sins. 
Leviticus16:12 He must take a pot of hot coals that burn on the altar in front of the Lord. He must fill both his hands with incense that has a sweet smell. He must take the hot coals and the incense with him behind the curtain. 
Leviticus16:13 Then he must put the incense onto the hot coals in front of the Lord. The smoke from the incense will rise up over the lid of the Covenant Box. If he does this, he will not die." 
Leviticus16:14 Then he must take the blood from the bull. He must use his finger to splash blood onto the lid of the Covenant Box. He must also splash some blood seven times with his finger in front of the Covenant Box. 
Leviticus16:15 Aaron must then kill the goat which is the sin offering for the people. He must take the goat's blood behind the curtain. He must use it in the same way that he used the bull's blood. He must shake it on the lid of the Covenant Box and in front of the Covenant Box. 
Leviticus16:16 In this way Aaron will make the Most Holy Place clean. He must do this because of the sins of Israel's people that make them unclean. He must do the same thing for the whole Tent of Meeting to make it clean. The tent stands among Israel's people who are unclean. 
Leviticus16:17 While Aaron is doing this, nobody may go into the Tent of Meeting. They must wait while he goes into the Most Holy Place to make everything clean. He must also make himself, his family and all the people of Israel clean from their sins. Everyone must wait outside until Aaron comes out of the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus16:18 When he comes out, he must go to the altar that stands in front of the Lord 's tent. He must make the altar clean. He must take some of the bull's blood and some of the goat's blood. He must put some blood on all the four horns of the altar." 
Leviticus16:19 Then he must splash some of the blood on the altar seven times with his finger. In this way he will make it clean for the Lord to use. He must do this because Israel's people are unclean. 
Leviticus16:20 Aaron must then bring the goat that is alive in front of the Lord. He must do this after he has made clean the Most Holy Place, the Tent of Meeting and the altar." 
Leviticus16:21 He must put his hands on the goat's head. He must speak aloud all the sins that Israel's people have done. He must say that they have been wicked and they have not obeyed the Lord. In this way he will put all their sins on the goat's head. Aaron must then tell a man that he has chosen to send the goat away into the desert. 
Leviticus16:22 The goat will carry all the sins of Israel's people far away to an empty place. The man must send it away into the desert. 
Leviticus16:23 After this, Aaron must go into the Tent of Meeting. He must take off his special linen clothes. He had put them on when he went into the holy tent. He must leave the clothes there." 
Leviticus16:24 He must wash his whole body in a holy place. He must put on his own clothes and go out of the tent. Then he will offer the animals for his own burnt offering and the burnt offering for the people. In this way, he will make himself clean and the people clean from their sins." 
Leviticus16:25 Then he must burn on the altar the fat from the sin offering. 
Leviticus16:26 The man who sent the goat away to escape must wash his clothes and his whole body. Then he may return to the camp. 
Leviticus16:27 Someone must carry the dead bodies of the animals for the sin offerings outside the camp. That is the bull and the goat that Aaron had killed. He used their blood to make the Most Holy Place clean. The man who takes them outside the camp must completely burn them. That includes their skin, their meat and their inside parts." 
Leviticus16:28 After that, the man must wash his clothes and his whole body. Then he may return to the camp." 
Leviticus16:29 On the tenth day of the seventh month, you must not eat and you must not do any work. This is a rule that you must obey every year for all time. It is a rule for you who belong to Israel's people and for foreign people who live among you." 
Leviticus16:30 It will be the Day of Atonement. On this day the priest will make you clean. The Lord will forgive you for all your sins. 
Leviticus16:31 It is a very holy day of complete rest for you. You must not eat during that day. This is a rule that you must all obey every year. 
Leviticus16:32 The descendant of Aaron who is chosen as leader of the priests will do all these things on the Day of Atonement. He will put on the linen clothes that are holy. 
Leviticus16:33 He will make clean the Most Holy Place, the Tent of Meeting and the altar. He will make the priests and all the people clean from their sins." 
Leviticus16:34 Once every year, on this day, he will make Israel's people clean from all their sins. This is a rule that you must obey for all time.’ Moses did all these things as the Lord had commanded him." 
Leviticus17:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus17:2 ‘Speak to Aaron, to his sons and to all Israel's people. Tell them, “This is what the Lord has commanded." 
Leviticus17:3 If any Israelite wants to kill a bull, a lamb or a goat as a sacrifice, he must bring it to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. He must bring it there as an offering to the Lord. If he kills the animal anywhere else in the camp or outside the camp, he is guilty of a sin. He has poured out the animal's blood in a wrong way. He can no longer belong among Israel's people." 
Leviticus17:4  
Leviticus17:5 This rule will stop the people killing animals as sacrifices to the Lord in the fields. Instead, they must bring their offerings to the priest at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. They must kill the animals there as friendship offerings to the Lord." 
Leviticus17:6 The priest must splash the animal's blood on the Lord 's altar at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. He must also burn the animal's fat. It will make a smell that gives pleasure to the Lord. 
Leviticus17:7 The people must be faithful to the Lord. They must no longer worship the idols of goats and offer sacrifices to them. The people and their descendants must always obey this rule.” 
Leviticus17:8 You must also tell the people, “An Israelite or a foreigner may want to kill an animal as a burnt offering or as another sacrifice." 
Leviticus17:9 If so, he must bring it to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. He must offer it there to the Lord. If he does not do that, he can no longer belong among Israel's people." 
Leviticus17:10 Any Israelite or a foreigner who lives among you must not eat any blood. If anyone does that, I will turn against that person. I will remove him so that he no longer belongs among Israel's people." 
Leviticus17:11 Everything that lives has life because of its blood. I have told you to offer blood on the altar. That is how you become clean from your sins. The animal's blood is the life that makes you clean. 
Leviticus17:12 For this reason I have told Israel's people that you must not eat blood. And no foreign person who lives among you may eat blood either. 
Leviticus17:13 Israelites or foreigners who live among them may catch a wild animal or a bird. If it is clean to eat, the person who catches it must pour its blood on the ground. He must cover the blood with some soil." 
Leviticus17:14 All living things have life because of their blood. So I have told the Israelites that they must not eat the blood of any living thing. Anyone who eats blood can no longer belong among my people. 
Leviticus17:15 An Israelite or a foreigner may find the body of an animal that has died by itself. Or it may be the body of an animal that wild animals have killed. If he eats the meat of that animal, he must wash his clothes and his whole body. He will be unclean until evening. Then he will become clean." 
Leviticus17:16 But if he does not wash his clothes and his whole body, he will receive the punishment that he deserves.” ’" 
Leviticus18:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus18:2 ‘Speak to Israel's people. Say to them, “I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus18:3 You have been living in Egypt, but you must not do the things that the people of Egypt do. I will soon take you to live in the land of Canaan. You must not do the things that the people of Canaan do. You must not live in the way that they think is right." 
Leviticus18:4 Instead, you must live in the way that I say is right. You must obey my laws. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus18:5 You must obey my laws and my teaching. Anyone who does that will continue to live. I am the Lord.” 
Leviticus18:6 Tell them this: “You must not have sex with anyone who belongs to your own family. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus18:7 Do not have sex with your mother. That would cause your father to be ashamed. 
Leviticus18:8 Do not have sex with any wife of your father. Your father would be ashamed. 
Leviticus18:9 Do not have sex with your sister. She may be your mother's daughter or your father's daughter. She may have been born in your house or in another house. It does not matter. You must not have sex with any sister. 
Leviticus18:10 Do not have sex with any granddaughter. That would make you ashamed. 
Leviticus18:11 Do not have sex with the daughter of your father and any of his wives. She is your sister so you must not have sex with her. 
Leviticus18:12 Do not have sex with your father's sister. She belongs to your father's family. 
Leviticus18:13 Do not have sex with your mother's sister. She belongs to your mother's family. 
Leviticus18:14 Do not have sex with the wife of your father's brother. That would make your uncle ashamed. His wife is your aunt. You must not try to get near to her. 
Leviticus18:15 Do not have sex with your son's wife. 
Leviticus18:16 Do not have sex with your brother's wife. That would make your brother ashamed. 
Leviticus18:17 Do not have sex with both a woman and her daughter. And do not take the woman's son's daughter or her daughter's daughter so that you can have sex with any of them. They belong to the same family. It would be a very wicked thing to do. 
Leviticus18:18 If your wife is still alive, do not marry her sister as a second wife. While your wife lives, you must not have sex with her sister." 
Leviticus18:19 Do not have sex with a woman at the time when she bleeds each month. She is unclean during that time. 
Leviticus18:20 Do not have sex with the wife of another man. You would become unclean. 
Leviticus18:21 Do not give any of your children as an offering to the god Molech. That would bring shame to the name of your God. I am the Lord! 
Leviticus18:22 A man must not have sex with another man as he would have sex with a woman. That is a disgusting thing to do. 
Leviticus18:23 Do not have sex with any animal. That would make you unclean. A woman must not offer herself to an animal to have sex with it. She would be doing a very bad thing. 
Leviticus18:24 Do not do any of these things that would make you unclean. The nations who live in Canaan make themselves unclean with all these things. I will chase out those people so that you can live in their land. 
Leviticus18:25 The land itself has become unclean because the people did these things. So I am punishing those people for their sins. The land has thrown out the people who lived on it. 
Leviticus18:26 But you yourselves must obey my laws and my rules. Do not do any of these wicked things. That includes the foreign people who live among you. 
Leviticus18:27 The people who lived in Canaan before you did these disgusting things. Because of that, the land became unclean." 
Leviticus18:28 So do not make the land unclean, as those people have done. Do not cause the land to throw you out, as it did to the nations who lived there before you." 
Leviticus18:29 If anyone does any of these disgusting things, they can no longer belong among Israel's people." 
Leviticus18:30 You must obey what I have commanded you to do. Do not live in the disgusting way that these other people have lived. Do not make yourselves unclean like that. I am the Lord your God.” ’ 
Leviticus19:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus19:2 ‘Speak to all Israel's people. Tell them, “You must be holy because I am the Lord your God and I am holy." 
Leviticus19:3 Each of you must respect his mother and his father. You must keep the Sabbath day as a day of rest. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:4 Do not turn away from me to worship idols. Do not use metal to make images of gods for yourselves. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:5 When you offer a friendship offering as a sacrifice to me, do it in the right way. Then I will accept your gift." 
Leviticus19:6 When you kill an animal for the sacrifice, eat its meat on the same day. You may eat what remains on the second day but you must completely burn any meat that remains on the third day." 
Leviticus19:7 If anyone eats the meat on the third day, it will not please me. I will not accept their offering." 
Leviticus19:8 The person who has eaten the meat on the third day deserves punishment. He has caused a gift that is holy to the Lord to become unclean. That person can no longer belong to Israel's people. 
Leviticus19:9 At harvest time, when you cut the crops on your land, do not cut to the edge of your field. Do not pick up the grain that falls onto the ground." 
Leviticus19:10 Do not pick all the grapes off your vines. Do not pick up the grapes that have fallen onto the ground. Leave some of these for the poor people and for the foreign people who live among you. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:11 You must not take things that belong to other people. You must not deceive other people or tell them lies. 
Leviticus19:12 Do not use my name to promise something that you will not do. That would bring shame to the name of your God. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus19:13 Do not cheat anyone. Do not rob anyone. If you are paying someone to work for you, pay them the same day." 
Leviticus19:14 You must not curse a deaf person. Do not put something in front of a blind person, to make them fall down. Respect and obey me as your God. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus19:15 When you judge other people, do this in a way that is fair. Do not be more kind to a rich person than to a poor person. You must be fair to everyone." 
Leviticus19:16 Do not say bad things about anyone for other people to hear. If somebody is in danger of death, speak the truth to help them if you can. Do not keep quiet. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus19:17 You must not think of ways to hurt another person. If someone has done a wrong thing, warn them about it. Then you will not be guilty of a sin yourself." 
Leviticus19:18 Do not try to punish another Israelite who has done something wrong against you. Do not try to hurt them. Instead, you must love other people as much as you love yourself. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus19:19 You must obey my rules. You must not allow two different kinds of animals to have babies together. Do not put two different kinds of seeds in one field. Do not wear clothes that are made from two different kinds of material. 
Leviticus19:20 If a man has chosen a slave girl to marry, no other man may have sex with her. She may not have become a free woman. If so, any other man who has sex with her must pay money to the first man. But you must not punish them with death, because the girl was still a slave." 
Leviticus19:21 The man must bring a male sheep to the Lord at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. That will be his guilt offering. 
Leviticus19:22 The priest will offer the sheep to the Lord to make the man clean from his sin. Then the Lord will forgive the man for the sin that he has done. 
Leviticus19:23 When you go into Canaan, you will plant trees that have fruit to eat. But the fruit will not be clean for you to eat. You must not eat the fruit for three years." 
Leviticus19:24 In the fourth year, all the fruit will be holy. Use it as an offering to praise the Lord." 
Leviticus19:25 In the fifth year, you may eat the fruit from your trees. If you do this, you will have more food to eat at harvest time. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus19:26 You must not eat any meat that still has blood in it. Do not use magic to learn about future times or other things. 
Leviticus19:27 Do not cut the hair from the sides of your head or from the edges of your beard. 
Leviticus19:28 Do not cut marks in your body to show that you are sad about a dead person. Do not cut pictures into your skin. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus19:29 Do not cause your daughter to be a prostitute. That would bring shame on her. It would also cause many people to turn away from me and do wicked things. 
Leviticus19:30 You must obey my rules about Sabbath days. Respect the holy place where you meet with me. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus19:31 Do not try to speak to the spirits of dead people. Do not ask other people to do this for you. That will make you unclean. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:32 You must stand up to give honour to old people. Respect and obey me, your God. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus19:33 Do not be cruel to foreign people who live among you. 
Leviticus19:34 Be kind to them, as you are to your own people. Love foreigners as much as you love yourselves. Remember that you yourselves lived in Egypt as foreigners. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus19:35 Always be fair when you measure things. When you measure how long, how heavy or how big something is," 
Leviticus19:36 always use correct weights and measures. Use the correct size of bowl to measure grain or oil. I am the Lord your God. I led you out of the land of Egypt. 
Leviticus19:37 You must always obey all my laws and my rules. I am the Lord.” ’ 
Leviticus20:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus20:2 ‘Speak to Israel's people. Say to them, “Nobody among you must ever give any of his children as an offering to the god Molech. That includes you Israelites and the foreign people who live in Israel. If anyone does that, you must punish him with death. Israel's people must throw stones at him to kill him." 
Leviticus20:3 I myself will turn against that person so that he no longer belongs among Israel's people. He deserves that punishment because he has offered some of his children to Molech. He has caused my holy place to become unclean. He has brought shame to my holy name. 
Leviticus20:4 The people of that man's town may decide not to punish him. He has offered some of his children to Molech, but they might refuse to punish him with death." 
Leviticus20:5 If that happens, I myself will turn against that man and his family. I will cause him to become separate from his own people. I will do that to everyone who turns away from me to worship Molech as he has done." 
Leviticus20:6 You must not try to speak to the spirits of dead people. Do not ask anyone to do that for you. Anyone who does that is no longer faithful to me. I will turn against that person so that he no longer belongs among Israel's people. 
Leviticus20:7 I am the Lord your God, so you must be faithful to me. You must be holy." 
Leviticus20:8 You must always be careful to obey my laws. I am the Lord and I cause you to be holy. 
Leviticus20:9 If anyone curses his mother or his father, you must punish him with death. He deserves to die for his sin." 
Leviticus20:10 If a man has sex with another man's wife you must punish both of them with death. 
Leviticus20:11 If a man has sex with his father's wife, he has caused his father to be ashamed. You must punish both of them with death. They deserve to die for their sin." 
Leviticus20:12 If a man has sex with his son's wife, you must punish both of them with death. They have done a very bad thing. They deserve to die for their sin." 
Leviticus20:13 If a man has sex with another man, you must punish both of them with death. They have done a disgusting thing together. They deserve to die for their sin." 
Leviticus20:14 If a man marries a woman and her mother, that is a wicked thing. You must burn the man and both the women in a fire until they die. That will stop wicked things like that from happening among you." 
Leviticus20:15 If a man has sex with an animal, you must punish him with death. You must also kill the animal." 
Leviticus20:16 If a woman offers herself to an animal to have sex with it, you must punish her with death. You must also kill the animal. They both deserve to die for this sin." 
Leviticus20:17 If a man takes his sister to have sex with her, it is a terrible sin. It does not matter whether she is the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother. You must remove them from among their people. The man has brought shame on his sister. He must receive the punishment that he deserves." 
Leviticus20:18 A man must not have sex with a woman during the time when she is bleeding. If he does that, they have had sex while she is unclean They can no longer belong among Israel's people." 
Leviticus20:19 A man must not have sex with his mother's sister or with his father's sister. If he does that, he has brought shame on someone from his own family. They must receive the punishment that they deserve." 
Leviticus20:20 If a man has sex with his aunt, he brings shame on his uncle. They must receive the punishment that they deserve for their sin. Neither of them will ever have any children." 
Leviticus20:21 If a man marries his brother's wife, that makes him unclean. Neither of them will have any children. The man has brought shame on his brother." 
Leviticus20:22 You must always obey all my laws and my rules. If you do that, the land where I am taking you to live will not throw you out." 
Leviticus20:23 I will chase out the nations who live there now, so that you can live there. You must not live in the way that those people live. I hate them because of all the disgusting things that they have done." 
Leviticus20:24 I have told you that the land will belong to you as your home. It is a land where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone. I am the Lord your God. I have chosen you to be separate from other people." 
Leviticus20:25 So you must know the difference between animals that are clean and animals that are unclean. You must know the difference between birds that are clean and birds that are unclean. You must not eat anything that I have told you is unclean. That includes any small thing that moves across the ground. 
Leviticus20:26 I am the Lord and I am holy. So you must be holy as my people. I have chosen you to be separate from other people to belong to me. 
Leviticus20:27 Any man or woman who talks with the spirits of dead people must die. Anyone who uses magic to learn about future times must also die. You must throw stones at that person until they die. They deserve to die for their sin.” ’ 
Leviticus21:1 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Speak to Aaron's sons, the priests. Tell them, “A priest must not touch a dead body. That would make him unclean among his people." 
Leviticus21:2 But if it is someone from his family who has died, he may touch their body. It may be his mother, his father, his son, his daughter or his brother." 
Leviticus21:3 He may touch the dead body of his sister if she has no husband to take care of her. The priest may make himself unclean for her. 
Leviticus21:4 But a priest must not touch the dead body of someone who belongs to his family because of marriage. He must not make himself unclean for that person. 
Leviticus21:5 A priest must not cut the hair off his head. He must not cut the edges of his beard. He must not cut marks in his body. 
Leviticus21:6 Priests must be holy to serve me. They must not bring shame to the name of their God. They are the people who offer gifts to the Lord. They bring food to their God. So they must be holy people. 
Leviticus21:7 A priest must not marry a woman who has been a prostitute. He must not marry a woman who has become separate from her husband. A priest must be holy to serve his God. 
Leviticus21:8 You must respect priests as holy people, because they offer food to your God. I am the Lord and I am holy. I am the one who causes you to be holy." 
Leviticus21:9 If a priest's daughter becomes a prostitute, she is unclean. She has brought shame on her father. You must burn her in a fire until she dies." 
Leviticus21:10 They have poured special oil on the head of the leader of the priests. He is able to wear the special clothes for priests. This shows that he is greater than his brothers. So he must always make his hair look nice. He must not tear his clothes. 
Leviticus21:11 He must not go anywhere that is near a dead body. Even if it is his father or his mother who has died, he must not make himself unclean for them." 
Leviticus21:12 He must not leave the holy place to go to a funeral. That would cause the holy place to be unclean. The oil that they poured on his head shows that I have chosen him as my servant. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus21:13 The leader of the priests must marry a woman who has not had sex before. 
Leviticus21:14 He must not marry a widow or a woman who has become separate from her husband. He must not marry a woman who has been a prostitute. Instead, he must choose a Levite woman who has not had sex before." 
Leviticus21:15 I, the Lord, have caused priests to be holy. So he must not marry a woman who would cause his children to be unclean.” ’" 
Leviticus21:16 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus21:17 ‘Tell Aaron, “Your descendants may only serve me as priests if they have a perfect body. If not, they must not bring offerings of food to their God. This rule will continue for all time." 
Leviticus21:18 No man may serve me if he has anything wrong with his body. He must not be blind. He must not have a weak leg or one leg that is shorter than the other leg. He must not have any part of his face that is the wrong shape. 
Leviticus21:19 He must not have an arm or a leg that is broken. 
Leviticus21:20 He must not have a back that is not straight. He must not be very small and thin. He must not have an eye disease or a skin disease. He must not have testicles that are spoiled. 
Leviticus21:21 No descendant of Aaron who has something wrong with his body may serve me as a priest. He may not offer gifts to me, the Lord. His body is not perfect, so he may not bring offerings of food to his God." 
Leviticus21:22 He may eat the holy food offerings and the most holy food offerings. 
Leviticus21:23 But he must not go near the curtain in the Holy Place. He must not go up to the altar. This is because he has something wrong with his body. He must not make the holy places unclean. I am the Lord. I cause the priests to be holy.” ’ 
Leviticus21:24 Moses told all these rules to Aaron, to his sons and to all Israel's people." 
Leviticus22:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus22:2 ‘Tell Aaron and his sons to be careful with the holy offerings from Israel's people. Those are gifts that the people offer to me. The priests must not spoil the honour of my holy name. I am the Lord. Tell them this, as a rule that will continue for ever:" 
Leviticus22:3 No priest may come near to the holy offerings when he is unclean. Those are gifts that Israel's people have offered to me, the Lord. If any unclean priest goes near them, he can never serve me again. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus22:4 If any descendant of Aaron is unclean, he must not eat the holy offerings until he becomes clean again. He may be unclean because of a skin disease, or some kind of pus is coming out from his body. He may have touched something that has touched a dead body and is unclean. He may have touched a man whose semen has come out from his sex part." 
Leviticus22:5 He may have touched an unclean animal that moves near to the ground. He may have touched a person who is unclean for any reason. All these things will cause the priest himself to become unclean. 
Leviticus22:6 Any priest who touches any of these unclean things will remain unclean until evening. He must not eat any of the holy offerings until he has washed his whole body. 
Leviticus22:7 When the sun goes down, he will be clean. Then he can eat the holy offerings which are his food." 
Leviticus22:8 A priest may find the body of an animal that has died by itself, or wild animals have killed it. He must not eat the meat of that animal. It will make him unclean. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus22:9 Priests must obey my commands. If they do not obey them, they will be guilty of sin. They will die because they have not respected my commands. I am the Lord. I cause the priests to be holy." 
Leviticus22:10 Only people who belong to a priest's family may eat any of the holy offerings. No visitor who is living in the priest's house may do that. No servant that the priest pays to work for him may do that. 
Leviticus22:11 But a slave that the priest has bought for himself may eat the holy offerings. And a slave that was born in the priest's house may eat them. 
Leviticus22:12 If a priest's daughter marries a man who is not a priest, she may not eat the holy offerings." 
Leviticus22:13 But if her husband dies or she becomes separate from him, it is different. She may have no children to take care of her. Then she may return to live in her father's home where she lived when she was young. If so, she is allowed to eat some of the food that her father receives as a priest. Only someone who belongs to a priest's family may eat that food." 
Leviticus22:14 Someone might eat a holy offering by mistake. If that happens, he must pay the priest for that food. He must also add one fifth of its value." 
Leviticus22:15 The priests must always respect the holy offerings as special food. They are gifts which Israel's people offer to the Lord. 
Leviticus22:16 If the priests allow other people to eat the holy offerings, those people are guilty of sin. They will receive punishment. I am the Lord and I cause the offerings to be holy.’" 
Leviticus22:17 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus22:18 ‘Speak to Aaron, to his sons and to all Israel's people. Tell them, “This is the rule about burnt offerings from the people of Israel or from the foreign people who live among them. It may be an offering that they have promised to give to the Lord. Or it may be an offering that they choose to give." 
Leviticus22:19 I will only accept your gift if it is a perfect male animal. It can be a bull, a sheep or a goat." 
Leviticus22:20 You must not offer to me any animal that has something wrong with it. If it is not perfect, I will not accept it as a gift from you." 
Leviticus22:21 This is also the rule if someone brings an animal as a sacrifice for a friendship offering. He may do that because of a special promise. Or he may do it because he chooses to give it. It may be a bull, a sheep or a goat. I will only accept it if the animal is perfect. It must not have anything wrong with it." 
Leviticus22:22 You must not offer to the Lord an animal that is blind. It must not have a broken bone or a body that has become spoiled. It must not have sores or any other disease on its skin. You must not offer on the altar any animal like that as a gift to the Lord. 
Leviticus22:23 You may bring a bull or a sheep that has a leg which is longer or shorter than the other legs. I will accept that animal as a gift that you choose to bring to me. I will not accept that animal as an offering that you make because of a promise. 
Leviticus22:24 You must not offer to the Lord an animal that has something wrong with its testicles. I will not accept the animal if anyone has hurt its testicles or removed them. You must never hurt the testicles of any animal in your land. 
Leviticus22:25 You must not offer to me animals like that which you have bought from a foreign person. I will not accept them as a gift of food from you. Those animals have bodies which are spoiled. They are not perfect.” ’ 
Leviticus22:26 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus22:27 ‘When a calf, a lamb or a goat is born, it must stay with its mother for seven days. From the eighth day, you may offer it as a gift to the Lord. I will accept it." 
Leviticus22:28 You must not kill a cow or a sheep on the same day that you kill its baby. 
Leviticus22:29 When you bring an animal as a sacrifice to thank the Lord for something, offer it in the proper way. Then I will accept it as your gift." 
Leviticus22:30 You must eat the animal's meat on the same day that you offer it. None of the meat may remain until the next morning. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus22:31 You must be careful to obey my commands. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus22:32 You must not bring shame to my holy name. You people of Israel must know that I am holy as I live among you. I am the Lord and I cause you to be holy. 
Leviticus22:33 I am the one who brought you out of Egypt, so that I would be your God. I am the Lord.’" 
Leviticus23:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:2 ‘Tell this to Israel's people: These are the special days and festivals that I have chosen. At these times you must meet together to worship me. 
Leviticus23:3 In each week, there are six days when you can do your work. The seventh day is the Sabbath day. On that day you must rest. You must not do any work. It is a holy day when you meet together to worship the Lord. This is the rule in all the places where you live." 
Leviticus23:4 There are also times that I have chosen for festivals. They are holy days when you must meet together to worship me. 
Leviticus23:5 The Passover festival will be on the 14th day of the first month of each year. It will begin when the sun goes down on that day. It is a time to give honour to the Lord. 
Leviticus23:6 On the next day, the 15th day of the first month, the festival of Flat Bread will begin, to give honour to the Lord. For seven days you must eat bread that has no yeast in it." 
Leviticus23:7 On the first of those seven days, you must all meet together to worship the Lord. You must not do your usual work." 
Leviticus23:8 For seven days you must offer sacrifices as a gift to the Lord. On the seventh day you must meet together again to worship the Lord. You must not do your usual work on that day.’ 
Leviticus23:9 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:10 ‘Tell Israel's people, “When you go into the land that I will give you, crops will grow there. When you bring home the crops at harvest time, you must take some of the first grain to the priest." 
Leviticus23:11 He will lift up the grain as a special offering to the Lord. The Lord will accept your gift. The priest will do this on the day after the Sabbath day. 
Leviticus23:12 On the same day, you must also bring a perfect lamb that is one year old. That will be a burnt offering to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:13 You must also bring two tenths of an ephah of the best flour that is mixed with olive oil. That will be your gift to the Lord. The smell of this offering will give pleasure to the Lord. You must also offer 1 litre of wine as a drink offering. 
Leviticus23:14 You must not eat any of the new grain until you have done this. You must not use the grain to make bread. You must not cook it. Wait until the day that you bring the offering to your God. Then you may eat the grain. This is a rule that will continue for ever, in all the places where you live." 
Leviticus23:15 Count seven weeks from the day when the priest has made this offering of grain. 
Leviticus23:16 You must count until the day after the seventh Sabbath day. That will be 50 days. Then you must bring another grain offering to the Lord. 
Leviticus23:17 Each family must bring from their homes two loaves of bread as a special gift to the Lord. You must use two tenths of an ephah of good flour and yeast to make the bread. This is a gift to the Lord from the first crops of your harvest. 
Leviticus23:18 As well as the bread, the whole group of people must bring seven perfect lambs that are one year old. They must bring a young bull and two male sheep. These animals will be a burnt offering to the Lord, together with the grain offering and the drink offerings. The smell of these offerings while they are burning will give pleasure to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:19 You must also offer one male goat as a sin offering. And you must offer two lambs that are one year old as a friendship offering. 
Leviticus23:20 The priest will lift up the two lambs and the bread as a special gift to the Lord. They are a holy offering to the Lord that belongs to the priests. 
Leviticus23:21 On that day, you must not do any of your usual work. It is a day when you must meet together to worship the Lord. This is a rule that will continue for ever, in all the places where you live." 
Leviticus23:22 At harvest time, when you cut the crops on your land, do not cut to the edge of your field. Do not pick up the grain that falls onto the ground. Leave some of the grain for the poor people and for the foreign people who live among you. I am the Lord your God.” ’" 
Leviticus23:23 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:24 ‘Tell Israel's people, “Each year, on the first day of the seventh month, you must have a complete rest. When you hear the sound of trumpets you must meet together to worship the Lord." 
Leviticus23:25 You must not do any of your usual work on that day. Instead, you must bring special offerings to the Lord.” ’" 
Leviticus23:26 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:27 ‘The tenth day of the seventh month is the Day of Atonement. On that day, you must come together to worship the Lord. You must not eat any food. Instead, you must make a special offering to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:28 You must not do any work on that day. It is a day of atonement. The priests will offer sacrifices to the Lord your God to make you clean from your sins. 
Leviticus23:29 You must punish anyone who does not obey the rules for this day. That person can no longer belong among God's people. 
Leviticus23:30 I will destroy any person from among my people who does any work on that day. 
Leviticus23:31 You must not do any kind of work. This rule will continue for ever in all the places where you live. 
Leviticus23:32 It is a Sabbath day of complete rest for all of you. It is a day when you must not eat any food. You must rest from the evening of the ninth day until the evening of the tenth day.’ 
Leviticus23:33 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:34 ‘Tell Israel's people, “Each year, on the 15th day of the seventh month, the Festival of Huts will start. The festival will continue for seven days, to give honour to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:35 On the first day of the festival, you must meet together to worship the Lord. You must not do any of your usual work." 
Leviticus23:36 For seven days you must offer special gifts to the Lord. On the eighth day you must meet together to worship the Lord. You must offer a special gift to him. It is the last day of the festival and you must all meet together. You must not do any of your usual work. 
Leviticus23:37 These are the rules for the special days that the Lord has chosen. They are times when you must meet together to worship the Lord. You will also offer special gifts to him. You will bring burnt offerings, grain offerings, drink offerings and sacrifices each day, as the rules teach." 
Leviticus23:38 You must meet to worship the Lord on these festival days, as well as on each Sabbath day. You must make these special offerings at festivals, as well as your usual gifts. You must give them to the Lord, as well as the gifts that you have promised to give and the gifts that you choose to give." 
Leviticus23:39 On the 15th day of the seventh month, you must begin the Festival of Huts. That is the time when you bring your crops home from the fields. This festival will continue for seven days, to give honour to the Lord. The first day and the eighth day of the festival are days of complete rest from your usual work." 
Leviticus23:40 On the first day, you must pick fruit from your best trees. Cut off branches of palm trees, willow trees and other trees with many leaves. Then for seven days you will be happy as you give honour to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:41 You must worship the Lord in this way for seven days. Do this in the seventh month of each year. This is a rule that will continue for all time. 
Leviticus23:42 All of you who were born as Israelites must live in huts for seven days. 
Leviticus23:43 Then your descendants in the future will know that Israel's people lived in tents for many years. I caused them to do that after I rescued them from the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God.” ’ 
Leviticus23:44 Moses told the Israelites these rules about the festivals that the Lord had chosen. They were times for them to worship him. 
Leviticus24:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus24:2 ‘ Command Israel's people to bring you pure oil from olives that they have beaten. Use this oil to burn in the lamps in the Tent of Meeting. This will cause the light to shine all the time. 
Leviticus24:3 Aaron must take care of the lamps that are in front of the curtain in the tent. The Covenant Box stands behind the curtain. Aaron must make sure that the lamps burn all night in front of the Lord, from evening until morning. This rule will continue for ever." 
Leviticus24:4 Aaron must take care of the lamps on the lampstand that is made of pure gold. He must make sure that the lamps always burn there, in front of the Lord." 
Leviticus24:5 Use the best flour to bake 12 round loaves of bread. Use two tenths of an ephah of flour for each loaf. 
Leviticus24:6 Put the loaves on the gold table in front of the Lord. Put them in two rows, with six loaves in each row." 
Leviticus24:7 Put pure frankincense along each row. This incense will burn as a special gift to the Lord instead of the bread. 
Leviticus24:8 Aaron must put new bread on the table every Sabbath day. It shows the covenant that continues for ever between Israel's people and the Lord. 
Leviticus24:9 The bread will belong to Aaron and his sons. They must eat it in a holy place because it is a very holy offering to the Lord. It will always be a part of the offerings that belongs to the priests.’ 
Leviticus24:10 There was a man whose mother's name was Shelomith. She was an Israelite woman, the daughter of Dibri who belonged to the tribe of Dan. The man's father was an Egyptian. The man started to fight against an Israelite man inside the camp. While they were fighting, the man insulted the Lord 's name with a curse." 
Leviticus24:11  
Leviticus24:12 So the Israelites took hold of the man and they put guards to watch him. They wanted the Lord to show them what they should do. 
Leviticus24:13 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus24:14 ‘Take the man who spoke the curse outside the camp. All the people who heard what he said must put their hands on his head. Then all the people must throw stones at him to kill him. 
Leviticus24:15 Warn Israel's people, “If anyone curses me, their God, they deserve their punishment." 
Leviticus24:16 So if someone insults the Lord 's name, his punishment must be death. All the people must throw stones at him until he is dead. It does not matter whether he is a foreign person or an Israelite. You must kill anyone who insults the Lord 's name." 
Leviticus24:17 If anyone kills another person, you must punish him with death." 
Leviticus24:18 If someone kills an animal that belongs to someone else, he must pay for it with a living animal. He took away a life, so he must give a life." 
Leviticus24:19 If a man hurts another person, you must punish him as he deserves. Hurt him in the same way that he has hurt the other person." 
Leviticus24:20 If he has broken one of the person's bones, break one of his bones. If he hurt the person's eye, hurt his eye. If he has broken a person's tooth, break his tooth." 
Leviticus24:21 If someone kills an animal that belongs to someone else, he must pay for it with a living animal. But if someone kills another person, you must punish him with death." 
Leviticus24:22 The same rule is for everyone, both Israelites and foreign people who live among you. I am the Lord your God.” ’" 
Leviticus24:23 Moses told Israel's people what the Lord had said. They took the man who spoke the curse outside the camp. They threw stones at him until he died. Israel's people did what the Lord had commanded Moses to do. 
Leviticus25:1 When Moses was on Mount Sinai, the Lord said to him," 
Leviticus25:2 ‘Tell Israel's people this: You will go into the land that I will give to you. Then the land must have a rest every seven years. That will give me honour. 
Leviticus25:3 For six years, you may plant seeds in your fields. You may take care of your vines. You may bring home your crops at harvest time." 
Leviticus25:4 But in the seventh year, the land must have a complete rest. It is a Sabbath year to give honour to the Lord. You must not plant seeds in your fields. You must not take care of your vines." 
Leviticus25:5 You must not cut your crops or your grapes at harvest time. The land must have a year of complete rest. 
Leviticus25:6 But some things will still grow on the land during that year. You may eat anything that grows by itself in the Sabbath year. That will be food for you and for your servants. It will be food for the people that you pay to work for you. And it will be food for the foreign people who are living with you. 
Leviticus25:7 The land will also provide food for your farm animals and for the wild animals. You may eat any food that the land provides during that year. 
Leviticus25:8 You must also count seven Sabbath years. That is seven times seven years, or 49 years." 
Leviticus25:9 In the 50th year you must make a loud noise with trumpets everywhere in your land. Do that on the tenth day of the seventh month, the Day of Atonement." 
Leviticus25:10 You must make sure that the 50th year is a special holy year. It is a happy Jubilee year. It is a time for everyone in the land to become free from their debts. Anyone who has sold his family's land will receive it back again. Slaves will return to live with their own people. 
Leviticus25:11 The 50th year is a Jubilee year for you. You must not plant any seeds in your fields. You must not cut your crops at harvest time. You must not pick any grapes from your vines. 
Leviticus25:12 It is a Jubilee year for you. You must keep it as a holy year. You may only eat food that grows by itself in your fields. 
Leviticus25:13 In the Jubilee year you will all return to the land that belongs to your family. 
Leviticus25:14 At any time, if you agree with someone to buy or sell land, you must be fair." 
Leviticus25:15 If you buy some land, you must count the number of years until the next Jubilee year. That will decide the fair price for you to pay. You are paying for the number of years that you can grow crops on the land." 
Leviticus25:16 If there are many years until the Jubilee year, the price of the land will be larger. If only a few years remain, the price will be smaller. The other man is selling you a certain number of years when you will get crops from the land." 
Leviticus25:17 Do not cheat each other. Respect and obey your God. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus25:18 You must obey my rules and my laws. If you are careful to do that, you will live safely in the land." 
Leviticus25:19 The land will provide plenty of food for you to eat. You will live there safely. 
Leviticus25:20 You may think, “If we do not plant any seeds in the seventh year, what food will we eat?”" 
Leviticus25:21 This is what will happen. I will bless the land in the sixth year so that it grows a lot of food for you. It will provide enough crops to give you food for three years! 
Leviticus25:22 When you plant seeds in the eighth year, you will still be eating your old crops. You will be eating food that the land provided in the sixth year. You will continue to eat those old crops until you bring home new crops in the ninth year." 
Leviticus25:23 You must never sell your land so that it completely belongs to someone else. The land always belongs to me, the Lord. I allow you to live on it for a time, like foreigners." 
Leviticus25:24 Anybody who sells land must always have the chance to buy it back again. 
Leviticus25:25 If an Israelite becomes poor, he may need to sell some of his land. If so, the person who has authority in his family must buy the land back from the new owner." 
Leviticus25:26 There might not be anyone in the man's family who can do that. Later, the man himself may have enough money to buy the land back again." 
Leviticus25:27 He must count how many years remain until the next Jubilee year. He must pay the value of those years to the man that he sold the land to. Then it will become his own land again. 
Leviticus25:28 But the man may never have enough money to pay the value of the land. If so, the land that he sold will belong to the other person until the next Jubilee year. When the Jubilee year comes, the new owner must return the land to the poor man who sold it. Then the man can return to live on his land again." 
Leviticus25:29 It is different for a house inside a city that has walls. If someone sells his house in a city, he may buy it back in the first year. For one complete year after he has sold it, he has the chance to buy it back." 
Leviticus25:30 If the man does not buy back the house in that year, it will completely belong to the new owner. It will continue to belong to him and to his descendants for ever. They will not have to return it in the Jubilee year." 
Leviticus25:31 But a house may be in a village that has no walls around it. If someone sells the house, it is the same as a piece of land like a field. The person who sells it must always have the chance to buy it back again. If not, when the Jubilee year comes, the house will belong again to the first owner." 
Leviticus25:32 Some cities belong to the Levites for them to live in. If a Levite sells his house, he must always have the chance to buy it back again." 
Leviticus25:33 When the Jubilee year comes, a house that a Levite has sold will belong to him again. This is because the Levites need to live in the houses that belong to them in their cities. The other Israelite tribes have given those places to the Levites." 
Leviticus25:34 But the Levites must never sell the fields that are around their cities. That land belongs to them for ever. 
Leviticus25:35 If an Israelite becomes poor, he may not be able to take care of himself. You must help him with the things that he needs. Help him to live with you, as you would help a foreigner or a stranger." 
Leviticus25:36 If you lend money to him, do not take back more than you gave him. Respect and obey your God. Allow the poor man to live with you as part of your family." 
Leviticus25:37 If you lend money to him, or you sell food to him, do not take more than its true value." 
Leviticus25:38 I am the Lord your God who rescued you from the land of Egypt. Now I am giving you the land of Canaan. I have done this to be your God. 
Leviticus25:39 If a poor Israelite is in debt to you, he might sell himself to you. But you must not make him work for you as a slave." 
Leviticus25:40 Instead, you must pay him to work as your servant, or like a foreigner who is living with you. He must work for you until the next Jubilee year." 
Leviticus25:41 In the Jubilee year, he will be free to leave. He and his children can go back to his own family on the land that belongs to his ancestors." 
Leviticus25:42 Israel's people are my servants. I brought them out of Egypt. So nobody may buy them as slaves. 
Leviticus25:43 You must not be cruel to poor people. Instead, respect and obey your God." 
Leviticus25:44 You are allowed to buy male and female slaves, if they are people from other nations." 
Leviticus25:45 You may also buy people from the families of foreign people who live among you. The children that they give birth to in your land may also become your slaves. 
Leviticus25:46 Foreign slaves may continue to belong to you for your whole life. After you die, they can belong to your children. But you must not make other Israelites your slaves. You must not be cruel to them." 
Leviticus25:47 A foreign person who lives with you might become rich. A poor Israelite might be in debt to him. So the Israelite might sell himself to the foreigner or to someone from the foreigner's family. 
Leviticus25:48 Someone from the family of the poor Israelite always has the chance to buy him back. 
Leviticus25:49 It may be his brother, his uncle or his cousin. Anyone from his own family may buy him back so that he is free again. And if the poor man himself has success, he can pay to make himself free." 
Leviticus25:50 The poor man and the foreign man who bought him must decide together the fair price. They must count the number of years that remain until the next Jubilee year. They must decide how much pay a worker would receive during that time. That is the right price for the poor Israelite man to become free. 
Leviticus25:51 Many years may remain until the Jubilee year. If so, the man must pay most of the sale money to be free." 
Leviticus25:52 If only a few years remain, the man will pay a smaller price to become free." 
Leviticus25:53 The foreign person who has bought the Israelite man must pay him each year, as he would pay a worker. Do not allow the foreign owner to be cruel to the Israelite." 
Leviticus25:54 When the Jubilee year comes, the poor Israelite man must go free, if he has not already become free. His children will go free with him." 
Leviticus25:55 Israel's people are my own servants. They belong to me because I rescued them from the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God.’ 
Leviticus26:1 The Lord said to Moses, ‘You must not make idols for yourselves. Do not use wood or stone to make images or statues of false gods. Do not worship any stone shape that you have put on your land. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus26:2 You must obey my rules about Sabbath days. You must respect my holy tabernacle. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus26:3 You must carefully obey my laws and my commands. 
Leviticus26:4 If you do, I will send rain at the proper time each year. The land will provide you with food. Plenty of fruit will grow on your trees." 
Leviticus26:5 You will continue to bring in grain from your fields until it is time to pick your grapes. And you will continue to pick your grapes until it is time to plant seeds for the next year. You will have all the food to eat that you need. You will live safely in your land. 
Leviticus26:6 I will cause there to be peace in your land. You will not be afraid of trouble when you lie down to sleep. I will remove dangerous animals from your land. No enemies will come to attack you. 
Leviticus26:7 You will be able to chase after your enemies and kill them. 
Leviticus26:8 Five of your men will chase away 100 of your enemies. 100 of your men will chase away 10,000 enemies. You will attack them and kill them." 
Leviticus26:9 I will help you. I will cause you to have many children so that the number of your people grows. I will do what I have promised to do in my covenant with you. 
Leviticus26:10 When harvest time comes each year, you will still be eating food that you have stored. You will need to throw food out of your store rooms to make space for the new crops." 
Leviticus26:11 I will have my home among you. I will never turn against you. 
Leviticus26:12 I will walk among you. I will be your God and you will be my people. 
Leviticus26:13 I am the Lord your God. I brought you out from Egypt so that you would no longer be slaves of the Egyptians. I destroyed the power that caused you to suffer. Then you could live as free people. 
Leviticus26:14 But it will be different if you do not respect me and obey my commands. 
Leviticus26:15 I will punish you if you do not accept my laws and you turn against my rules. I will punish you if you do not obey all my commands and you spoil the covenant that I made with you. 
Leviticus26:16 This is how I will punish you: I will cause terrible things to happen to you. You will have diseases that make you weak and diseases that make your bodies very hot. You will have diseases that spoil your eyes and diseases that take away your strength. You will plant seeds in your fields but your enemies will eat the crops. 
Leviticus26:17 I will turn against you. Your enemies will attack you and they will win against you. People who hate you will rule over you. You will run away to escape even if nobody is chasing you! 
Leviticus26:18 Even after I have punished you like that, you might still choose not to obey me. If so, I will continue to punish you seven times more for your sins." 
Leviticus26:19 I will stop you being proud of your strength. I will not send any rain from the sky. Your land will become hard and dry. 
Leviticus26:20 You will use all your strength to work very hard, but it will be useless. Your land will not provide any food for you. No fruit will grow on your trees." 
Leviticus26:21 If you continue to turn against me, I will cause you to suffer even more. If you refuse to obey me, I will punish you seven times more again for your sins." 
Leviticus26:22 I will send wild animals to attack you. They will kill your children and your animals. Very few of your people will remain and nobody will travel on your roads. 
Leviticus26:23 After all that punishment, you may still not turn back to me. If you continue to turn against me," 
Leviticus26:24 I myself will turn against you. I will punish you another seven times more strongly for your sins. 
Leviticus26:25 I will send armies to attack you. They will punish you because you have not obeyed my covenant with you. If you escape into your cities, I will send bad diseases among you. Then your enemies will have power over you." 
Leviticus26:26 I will stop you getting any food. Ten women will bake all the bread for their families in only one oven. They will weigh the bread for each person but nobody will have enough to eat. 
Leviticus26:27 After this, you may still not obey me. If you continue to turn against me," 
Leviticus26:28 I will be angry and I will turn against you. I myself will punish you seven times more strongly because of your sins. 
Leviticus26:29 Then you will be so hungry that you will eat your own children. 
Leviticus26:30 I will destroy your altars for sacrifices to false gods and your altars for incense. I will put your dead bodies in a heap on top of your dead idols. I will hate you. 
Leviticus26:31 I will destroy your cities and the places where you worship. The sweet smell of your offerings will not give me pleasure. 
Leviticus26:32 I myself will destroy the land where you live. Your enemies who come to live there will be very upset when they see it. 
Leviticus26:33 I will chase you out to go and live among other nations. I will cause enemies to attack you. I will destroy your land. Your cities will become heaps of stones. 
Leviticus26:34 While you are living in the countries of your enemies, your own land will have a rest. It will have the Sabbath rest that it should have had every seven years." 
Leviticus26:35 When you lived on the land, you did not allow it to have its Sabbath rest. Now it will have complete rest while it is an empty place." 
Leviticus26:36 Some of you will remain alive in the countries of your enemies. But you will live in great fear. The sound of a leaf that moves in the wind will cause you to run away. You will think that someone is chasing you to kill you. Nobody is chasing you, but you will still fall down as you try to escape." 
Leviticus26:37 You will fall over each other, like people who are running away from their enemies. Nobody is chasing you, but you are still afraid. None of you will be strong enough to fight against your enemies." 
Leviticus26:38 You will die among the nations where you are living. That is where you will come to an end. 
Leviticus26:39 Those of you who still remain will slowly die in the countries of your enemies. You will become weak and you will die because of your sins and because of the sins of your ancestors. 
Leviticus26:40 But one day, your descendants may realize that they and their ancestors have been wrong. They may clearly agree that they have turned against me. They may agree that they have not been faithful to me." 
Leviticus26:41 That was why I myself turned against them and I took them to the countries of their enemies. When they know that, they will no longer be proud. They will accept the punishment that they deserve for their sins." 
Leviticus26:42 When that happens, I will do what I have promised to do. I made those promises in my covenant with your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I will remember to bless the land that I gave to them." 
Leviticus26:43 It was necessary for my people to go away from the land for a time. The land needed to be empty so that it could have the Sabbath rest that it should have had. My people refused to obey my rules. They hated my laws. So they needed to receive the punishment that they deserved for their sins. 
Leviticus26:44 But I am the Lord their God. So I will not forget them while they are living in the countries of their enemies. I will not turn away from them. I will not destroy them completely. I will not forget the covenant that I made with them. 
Leviticus26:45 Yes, I will help them because of the covenant that I made with their ancestors. While other nations watched, I brought my people out of Egypt to be their God. I am the Lord.’" 
Leviticus26:46 These are the laws, rules and commands that the Lord told Moses on Mount Sinai. They are his covenant with Israel's people." 
Leviticus27:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus27:2 ‘Speak to Israel's people. Tell them, “Someone might promise to offer another person as a gift to the Lord. He may pay money as his offering instead of the person." 
Leviticus27:3 He must pay the value of the offering that he has promised. For a man between 20 years and 60 years old, the value is 50 shekels of silver that they use in the holy place." 
Leviticus27:4 For a woman, the value is 30 shekels of silver." 
Leviticus27:5 For a male between 5 years and 20 years old, the value is 20 shekels. For a female of that age, the value is 10 shekels." 
Leviticus27:6 For a boy between one month and five years old, the value is 5 shekels. For a girl of the same age, the value is 3 shekels." 
Leviticus27:7 For a man who is older than 60 years, the value is 15 shekels. For a woman of that age, the value is 10 shekels." 
Leviticus27:8 The person who makes the promise might be too poor to pay the value of his offering. If so, he must bring the person that he has offered to God to the priest. The priest will decide the value of the poor person's offering. He will decide how much money the poor person is able to give." 
Leviticus27:9 Someone might promise to offer an animal as a gift to the Lord. If it is the kind of animal that the Lord would accept as an offering, the animal becomes a holy offering." 
Leviticus27:10 The person must not then change his offering in any way. He must not change a good animal for a bad animal. He must not change a bad animal for a good animal. If the person does change one animal for another, both the animals become holy." 
Leviticus27:11 The animal that the person promises to give might be an unclean animal. The Lord does not accept that kind of animal as an offering. So the person must bring the animal to the priest. 
Leviticus27:12 The priest will look at the animal to see whether it is good or bad. Then he will decide its value as an offering. The priest is the person who decides the value. 
Leviticus27:13 The person who promised his animal as an offering might want to buy the animal back. If so, he must pay the value of the animal and add one fifth more." 
Leviticus27:14 Someone might offer his house as a holy gift to the Lord. The priest will look at the house to see whether it is good or bad. Then he will decide its value as an offering. 
Leviticus27:15 If the person who offered the house wants to buy it back, he must pay its value and add one fifth more. Then the house will belong to him again." 
Leviticus27:16 Someone might offer part of his family's land as a holy gift to the Lord. He must decide how much seed the land needs to grow crops. The value of the land will be 50 shekels of silver for each homer of seed that the land needs. 
Leviticus27:17 If a person gives his land to the Lord in a Jubilee year, the land will have its complete value." 
Leviticus27:18 But the land's value will be less if the person gives it after the Jubilee year. The priest will count the number of years that remain until the next Jubilee. Then he will decide the value of the land. 
Leviticus27:19 If the person wants to buy the land back, he must pay its value and add one fifth more. Then the land will belong to him again." 
Leviticus27:20 It is different if he does not buy the land back and he sells it to someone else. If he does that, he is not allowed to buy the land back for himself." 
Leviticus27:21 When the next Jubilee year comes, the land will become the Lord 's holy land for ever. It will belong to the priests." 
Leviticus27:22 Someone might offer to the Lord a field that is not part of his family's land. It might be a field that he has bought from someone. 
Leviticus27:23 If so, the priest will count how many years remain until the Jubilee year. Then he will decide the value of the field. The person who offered the field to the Lord must pay the money on that day. The money belongs to the Lord as a holy gift." 
Leviticus27:24 When the Jubilee year comes, the field will belong again to the first owner. It is part of his family's land." 
Leviticus27:25 The priest is the person who must decide the value of all these offerings. He must use the shekel that they use in the holy place to decide the value. There are 20 gerahs in one shekel. 
Leviticus27:26 The first baby that an animal gives birth to is holy. It belongs to the Lord. So nobody can offer it as a special gift to the Lord. If it is an ox or a sheep, it already belongs to the Lord." 
Leviticus27:27 But if it is an unclean animal, the owner may pay to buy it. He must pay the value and add one fifth more. If the owner does not buy it, the priest must sell it to someone else for its value." 
Leviticus27:28 Someone might give to the Lord as a complete gift something that belongs to him. It might be a person, an animal or part of his family's land. Every gift like that belongs to the Lord for ever as a most holy gift. The priest must not sell it. The owner cannot ever buy it back." 
Leviticus27:29 If you give a person to the Lord as a complete gift, nobody may buy him back. His punishment must be death." 
Leviticus27:30 One tenth of all the food that the land provides belongs to the Lord as a holy gift. It may be grain that grows in the fields, or fruit that grows on the trees." 
Leviticus27:31 If a person chooses to buy back any of his tithe, he must pay its value and add one fifth more." 
Leviticus27:32 Out of every ten farm animals, one animal is holy. It belongs to the Lord." 
Leviticus27:33 The owner must not pick what animal he will give to the Lord. He must not change a good animal for a bad animal. He must not change a bad animal for a good animal. If anyone does that, both animals will belong to the Lord as holy animals. The owner cannot buy the animal back for himself.” ’" 
Leviticus27:34 These are the commands that the Lord gave to Moses on Mount Sinai. He told Moses to teach them to Israel's people. 
Numbers1:1 The Israelites were in the Sinai Desert. It was the first day of the second month of the second year after they left Egypt. Moses was in the Tent of Meeting. The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers1:2 ‘Put the people into clans and families and count them. Make a list. Write the name of each man on the list. 
Numbers1:3 You and Aaron must record the names of all the men in each group who can fight in the army. Record the names of men who are 20 years old or older. 
Numbers1:4 A man from each tribe must help you. Each of them will be the leader of his family. 
Numbers1:5 These are the men from each tribe who must help you: Reuben: Elizur, the son of Shedeur." 
Numbers1:6 Simeon: Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai." 
Numbers1:7 Judah: Nahshon, the son of Amminadab." 
Numbers1:8 Issachar: Nethanel, the son of Zuar." 
Numbers1:9 Zebulun: Eliab, the son of Helon." 
Numbers1:10 Ephraim (Joseph's son): Elishama, the son of Ammihud. Manasseh (Joseph's son): Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur." 
Numbers1:11 Benjamin: Abidan, the son of Gideoni." 
Numbers1:12 Dan: Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers1:13 Asher: Pagiel, the son of Ocran." 
Numbers1:14 Gad: Eliasaph, the son of Deuel." 
Numbers1:15 Naphtali: Ahira, the son of Enan.’" 
Numbers1:16 These were the men that they chose from among the people. They were leaders of their clans. Each of them worked on behalf of the tribe of their ancestor. 
Numbers1:17 Moses and Aaron told these leaders to come and help. 
Numbers1:18 On the first day of the second month, they said that all the Israelite people must meet together. The people were in clans and in families. They made a list of all the men who were 20 years old or older." 
Numbers1:19 They did the things that the Lord had told Moses to do. So Moses recorded the names there in the Sinai Desert. 
Numbers2:1 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers2:2 ‘The Israelites must put up their tents on each side of the Tent of Meeting. They must not be very near to it but they must be all around it. They must live together in their tribes. Each person must be with his own tribe. Each tribe must have its own flag. 
Numbers2:3 The people in Judah's tribe must be on the east side of the Tent. They must have their flag with them, and they must put up their tents in groups. The leader of the tribe of Judah is Nahshon, the son of Amminadab." 
Numbers2:4 There will be 74,600 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:5 The tribe of Issachar will put up their tents on one side of Judah's camp. The leader of the tribe of Issachar is Nethanel, the son of Zuar." 
Numbers2:6 There will be 54,400 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:7 The tribe of Zebulun will be on the other side of Judah's camp. The leader of the tribe of Zebulun is Eliab, the son of Helon." 
Numbers2:8 There will be 57,400 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:9 So there will be 186,400 soldiers in the three groups on Judah's side of the camp. When the people travel, these tribes will march first." 
Numbers2:10 The tribe of Reuben must be on the south side of the tent. They must have their flag with them, and they must put up their tents in groups. The leader of the tribe of Reuben is Elizur, the son of Shedeur." 
Numbers2:11 There will be 46,500 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:12 The tribe of Simeon will put up their tents on one side of Reuben's camp. The leader of the tribe of Simeon is Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai." 
Numbers2:13 There will be 59,300 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:14 The tribe of Gad will be on the other side of Reuben's camp. The leader of the tribe of Gad is Eliasaph, the son of Deuel." 
Numbers2:15 There will be 45,650 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:16 So there will be 151,450 soldiers in the three groups on Reuben's side of the camp. When the people travel, they will march second." 
Numbers2:17 The Levites must march next. The Levites must carry the Tent of Meeting. They must march between the first two groups of tribes and the last two groups of tribes. Each man must be in his own place. They must march with their flag. 
Numbers2:18 The tribe of Ephraim must be on the west side of the tent. They must have their flag with them and they must live in groups. The leader of the tribe of Ephraim is Elishama, the son of Ammihud." 
Numbers2:19 There will be 40,500 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:20 The tribe of Manasseh will be on one side of Ephraim's camp. The leader of the tribe of Manasseh is Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur." 
Numbers2:21 There will be 32,200 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:22 The tribe of Benjamin will be on the other side of Ephraim's camp. The leader of the tribe of Benjamin is Abidan, the son of Gideoni." 
Numbers2:23 There will be 35,400 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:24 So there will be 108,100 soldiers in the three groups on Ephraim's side of the camp. When the people travel, they will march third." 
Numbers2:25 The tribe of Dan must be on the north side of the tent. They must have their flag with them and they must live in groups. The leader of the tribe of Dan is Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers2:26 There will be 62,700 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:27 The tribe of Asher will put up their tents on one side of Dan's camp. The leader of the tribe of Asher is Pagiel, the son of Ocran." 
Numbers2:28 There will be 41,500 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:29 The tribe of Naphtali will be on the other side of Dan's camp. The leader of the tribe of Naphtali is Ahira, the son of Enan." 
Numbers2:30 There will be 53,400 soldiers in his army." 
Numbers2:31 So there will be 157,600 soldiers in the three groups on Dan's side of the camp. They will march last with their flag.’" 
Numbers2:32 In that way, Moses and his helpers counted all the Israelite men who were able to fight. They counted them in groups, clan by clan. There were 603,550 soldiers." 
Numbers2:33 They did not count the Levites with the other Israelites. That was what the Lord had told Moses. 
Numbers2:34 The Israelites did everything that the Lord had told Moses. They put up their tents in groups, as the Lord wanted. Each tribe put up its tents under its own flag. When they started to travel, each man walked with his own clan and his own family." 
Numbers3:1 This is the list of the family of Aaron and Moses. This was at the time when the Lord spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai. 
Numbers3:2 The names of the sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. Nadab was the firstborn son." 
Numbers3:3 Aaron anointed them, and he gave authority to them to work as priests." 
Numbers3:4 But Nadab and Abihu fell down and died in front of the Lord. That happened when they offered strange fire to the Lord in the Sinai Desert. They had no children. So only Eleazar and Ithamar worked as priests while their father Aaron was alive. 
Numbers3:5 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers3:6 ‘Bring the tribe of Levi to Aaron the priest. They must help him. 
Numbers3:7 They must serve him and all the Israelites. They must work at the Tent of Meeting and take care of it. 
Numbers3:8 They must work on behalf of the Israelites. They must take care of the things that are in the Tent of Meeting. That is how they will serve God in the tabernacle. 
Numbers3:9 Give the Levites to Aaron and to his descendants. They will be the Israelites who help him. They do not have to do anything else. 
Numbers3:10 But you must make a list of Aaron and his descendants. They will be the priests. If any other person comes near to the special tent, they must die.’" 
Numbers3:11 The Lord also said to Moses," 
Numbers3:12 ‘I will not take the firstborn son of every woman in Israel to belong to me. I will take the Levites instead of them. 
Numbers3:13 I killed all the firstborn sons of the Egyptians. But I kept the firstborn sons of every person and animal among the Israelites for myself. They belong to me. I am the Lord!’ 
Numbers3:14 The Lord said to Moses in the Sinai Desert," 
Numbers3:15 ‘Put the Levites into clans and families and count them. Make a list of every male who is a month old or older.’ 
Numbers3:16 Moses obeyed the Lord. So Moses recorded them as the Lord said. 
Numbers3:17 The names of the sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
Numbers3:18 Gershon had two sons. Their names were Libni and Shimei. 
Numbers3:19 Kohath's sons were called Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
Numbers3:20 Merari's sons were called Mahli and Mushi. Those were the sons and grandsons of Levi. They became the leaders of the clans of Levi's tribe. 
Numbers3:21 There were two families in Gershon's clan. They were the families of Libni and Shimei. 
Numbers3:22 There were 7,500 males who were one month or older in their list." 
Numbers3:23 Gershon's clan had to put up their tents on the west side of the special tent. 
Numbers3:24 The leader of the clan of Gershon was Eliasaph the son of Lael. 
Numbers3:25 Gershon's clan had to take care of the Tent of Meeting, with the cloth that covered it, and the curtain at its entrance." 
Numbers3:26 There was a yard round the outside of the tabernacle and the altar. Gershon's family took care of the curtains that hung around the yard, with their ropes. They also took care of the curtain at the entrance to the yard. They took care of all those kinds of things." 
Numbers3:27 There were four families in Kohath's clan. They were the families of Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
Numbers3:28 There were 8,600 males who were one month old or older in their list. Kohath's clan had to take care of the things inside the special tent." 
Numbers3:29 Kohath's clan had to put up their tents on the south side of the tabernacle. 
Numbers3:30 The leader of Kohath's descendants was Elizaphan, the son of Uzziel." 
Numbers3:31 Kohath's family had to take care of the Covenant Box, the table and the lampstands. They had to take care of the altars and the tools that the priests used in the special tent. They also took care of the curtain in front of the Most Holy Place in the tent. They did all the work with those things." 
Numbers3:32 Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, was the most important leader of the Levites. He ruled over those people who took care of God's special tent." 
Numbers3:33 There were two families in Merari's clan. They were the families of Mahli and Mushi. 
Numbers3:34 There were 6,200 males in that list. They were one month old or older when Moses counted them." 
Numbers3:35 The leader of Merari's clan was Zuriel, the son of Abihail. They had to put up their tents on the north side of the tabernacle." 
Numbers3:36 Merari's family had to take care of all the wood parts of the tabernacle. They took care of the heavy things that stood on the ground to hold the poles. 
Numbers3:37 They also took care of the poles that held the cloth around the yard, their ropes and other things that held the tent in its place." 
Numbers3:38 Moses, Aaron and Aaron's sons had to put up their tents in front of the tabernacle, on the east side. They were the only people who could go into the Holy Place in the tent. Any other person who went near it had to die." 
Numbers3:39 So Moses and Aaron obeyed the Lord. They counted the Levites by their clans. There were 22,000 males who were one month old or older." 
Numbers3:40 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Count all the firstborn sons of the Israelites. Record every male who is one month old or older. Make a list of their names." 
Numbers3:41 The Israelites' firstborn sons belong to me. I am the Lord. But I will accept all the males among the Levites instead. The Israelites' firstborn animals also belong to me. But I will accept the animals of the Levites instead.’ 
Numbers3:42 So Moses counted all the firstborn males among the Israelites as the Lord had said. 
Numbers3:43 He counted 22,273 firstborn males who were one month old or older. He made a list of their names." 
Numbers3:44 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers3:45 ‘Do not take the firstborn males among the people to belong to me. Accept the Levites instead. Do not use the firstborn animals of the people. Accept the animals of the Levites instead. The Levites will belong to me. I am the Lord. 
Numbers3:46 There are 273 more firstborn males of the people than there are Levites. So the people must pay for the extra firstborn sons. 
Numbers3:47 You must accept five shekels for each extra firstborn male. The shekel must have the same weight as the shekel that the Levites use in the holy place. There are 20 gerahs in one shekel. 
Numbers3:48 Give that money to Aaron and his sons.’ 
Numbers3:49 So Moses took the money to buy back the extra 273 firstborn sons. That was because the number of firstborn sons was more than the number of Levites. 
Numbers3:50 He took 1,365 shekels from them. The shekels had the same weight as the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place." 
Numbers3:51 Moses did what the Lord had told him to do. He gave the money to Aaron and his sons. 
Numbers4:1 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers4:2 ‘Write a list of the people in Kohath's clan in their families. That list must be separate from the list of the other Levites. 
Numbers4:3 Record the men who can work in the Tent of Meeting. Record them if they are between 30 and 50 years old. 
Numbers4:4 These men must take care of everything that is most holy in the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers4:5 When the people are ready to move, Aaron and his sons must go into the Tent of Meeting. They must take down the curtain that is in front of the Covenant Box. They must cover the Covenant Box with the curtain." 
Numbers4:6 Then they must cover the curtain with good leather. On the top of that, they must put a blue cloth. Then, they must put the poles through the rings, so that they can carry the Covenant Box." 
Numbers4:7 They must put a blue cloth over the table for the special bread. The bread must remain on the table. They must put on the cloth the plates, bowls and dishes. They must also put on it the jars for the wine that they offer to me." 
Numbers4:8 Then they must cover all those things with a red cloth. On the top of the red cloth, they must put good leather. Then they must fix the poles to the table, so that they can carry it." 
Numbers4:9 They must cover the lampstand and its tools with a blue cloth. They must also cover the jars for the oil with the blue cloth. 
Numbers4:10 Then they must cover all this with good leather. They must carry it on a board. 
Numbers4:11 They must cover the gold altar with a blue cloth. They must cover the blue cloth with good leather. Then they must fix the poles to the altar, so that they can carry it." 
Numbers4:12 They must cover all the tools from God's holy tent with a blue cloth. They must cover the blue cloth with good leather. They must carry all this on a board. 
Numbers4:13 They must remove the ashes from the bronze altar. They must cover the bronze altar with a purple cloth. 
Numbers4:14 They must put all the tools on top of it. These include the plates for the fire, the forks for the meat, the spades and the bowls. They must cover all these things with good leather. Then they must put the poles through the rings on the altar, so that they can carry it." 
Numbers4:15 When the people are ready to leave, the men from Kohath's clan must be ready to carry all those things. But they must wait until Aaron and his sons have covered all the holy things of the tabernacle. The men from Kohath's clan must not touch the holy things. They will die if they touch them. Those are the jobs of Kohath's clan. They must carry the things from the Tent of Meeting when the Israelites travel." 
Numbers4:16 Eleazar, who is the son of Aaron the priest, must keep the oil for the light. He must keep the incense and the grain offering. He must keep the special oil. The special oil is a mark on everything that God chooses. Eleazar must take care of the whole Tent of Meeting. He must work with God's holy tent and with everything in it.’" 
Numbers4:17 Then the Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers4:18 ‘You must not allow Kohath's clan to come to an end among the other Levites. 
Numbers4:19 Do not let the men in that clan die. That will happen if they come near to the most holy things. You must do this: Aaron and his sons must go into the Tent of Meeting. They will tell each man the work that he must do. And they must tell each man the things that he must carry. 
Numbers4:20 But the men from Kohath's clan must not look at any of the holy things, even for a moment. If they do look at those things, they will die.’" 
Numbers4:21 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers4:22 ‘Also write a list of the people in Gershon's clan in their families. 
Numbers4:23 Record the men who can work in the Tent of Meeting. Record them if they are between 30 and 50 years old. 
Numbers4:24 The work of the men in Gershon's clan is to carry these things: 
Numbers4:25 They must carry the curtains of God's tent. They must carry the Tent of Meeting with the things that cover it. They must also carry the good leather skin that covers everything. And they must carry the curtain for the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers4:26 They must carry the curtains of the yard that is around the tabernacle. Also, they must carry the curtain and the ropes for the entrance to the yard. That is the yard that is around the tent and the altar. The men from Gershon's clan must carry all the tools that belong with those curtains. They must do everything that they need to do with those things." 
Numbers4:27 The men in Gershon's clan must do everything that Aaron and his sons ask them to do. Aaron and his sons must tell them the things that they should carry. And they must tell them everything that they should do. 
Numbers4:28 That is the work for the Tent of Meeting that the descendants of Gershon must do. Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest, will tell them the things that they must do.’" 
Numbers4:29 Also God said to Moses, ‘Write a list of the people in Merari's clan in their families." 
Numbers4:30 Record the men who can work in the Tent of Meeting. Record them if they are between 30 and 50 years old. 
Numbers4:31 This is the work of the men in Merari's clan: They must carry the wood parts that hold the Tent of Meeting, and its poles. They must carry its pillars and its bases." 
Numbers4:32 And they must carry the pillars, bases, pegs and ropes for the yard that is around the tent. And the men in Merari's clan must keep all the tools that belong with those things safe. Each man in Merari's clan must take care of something. Tell each man which things he must carry." 
Numbers4:33 That is the work of the descendants of Merari in the Tent of Meeting. Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest, will tell them the things that they must do.’" 
Numbers4:34 So Moses, Aaron and the people's leaders recorded the names of Kohath's descendants in their clans and in their families." 
Numbers4:35 They recorded the men who could work in the Tent of Meeting. They recorded them if they were between 30 and 50 years old. 
Numbers4:36 They recorded them in clans. There were 2,750 men." 
Numbers4:37 Moses and Aaron recorded the descendants of Kohath who worked at the Tent of Meeting. The Lord had told Moses that they must do that. 
Numbers4:38 Moses and Aaron also recorded the names of Gershon's descendants in their clans and in their families. 
Numbers4:39 They recorded the men who could work in the Tent of Meeting. They recorded them if they were between 30 and 50 years old. 
Numbers4:40 They recorded them in clans and families. There were 2,630 men." 
Numbers4:41 Moses and Aaron recorded the descendants of Gershon who worked at the Tent of Meeting. The Lord had told Moses that they must do that. 
Numbers4:42 Moses and Aaron also recorded the names of Merari's descendants in their clans and in their families. 
Numbers4:43 They counted all the men who worked in the Tent of Meeting. They counted them if they were between 30 and 50 years old. 
Numbers4:44 They recorded them in clans. There were 3,200 men." 
Numbers4:45 Moses and Aaron recorded the descendants of Merari who worked at the Tent of Meeting. The Lord had told Moses that they must do that. 
Numbers4:46 Moses, Aaron and the people's leaders recorded the names of the Levites in their clans and in their families." 
Numbers4:47 They counted all the men who worked in the Tent of Meeting. They also counted all the men who carried the tent and all its things. They counted them if they were between 30 and 50 years old. 
Numbers4:48 There were 8,580 Levites in the list." 
Numbers4:49 They told each man the things that he must do and what he must carry. Moses recorded all their names. The Lord had told him to do that. 
Numbers5:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers5:2 ‘Speak to the Israelites. They must send any person with a disease of the skin away from the camp. Or somebody may have a disease that causes pus to come out of his body. Any person like that is unclean. Anyone who has touched a dead person is also unclean. Send those people out of the camp too. 
Numbers5:3 Do this with both men and women. Send them out of the camp. They must not make the camp unclean, because that is where I live among the people.’" 
Numbers5:4 The Israelites did what the Lord had said to Moses. They sent those people outside the camp. 
Numbers5:5 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers5:6 ‘Tell these rules to the Israelites. A person might do a wrong thing against another person. If they do, then they have turned against the Lord." 
Numbers5:7 That person must agree that they have done this sin. They must pay the right amount to the other person. They must also pay them one fifth extra. 
Numbers5:8 But the other person may have died. If they have no relative who can accept the money, the money will belong to the Lord. The person who did a wrong thing must give the money and a male sheep to the priest. The sheep is a sacrifice to make the person clean from their sin. Then I will forgive the guilty person." 
Numbers5:9 All the special gifts from the Israelites to God are for the priest. 
Numbers5:10 The priest will keep all these gifts that he receives from people.’ 
Numbers5:11 The Lord said to Moses: 
Numbers5:12 ‘Speak to the Israelites. Tell them to follow these rules. A woman may do wrong things against her husband. 
Numbers5:13 She might have had sex with another man. The husband might not know about this. His wife might have kept it secret. Nobody saw what was happening. So there is nobody to say that it happened. 
Numbers5:14 But the man may think that it happened. He will be jealous. But his wife may not really have made herself unclean in that way. 
Numbers5:15 The man must take his wife to the priest. He must bring one kilogram of barley flour with him. This is a grain offering to discover if his wife did do those things. So he must not put oil or incense on the grain offering. It is an offering because the man does not trust his wife. 
Numbers5:16 Then the priest will bring the woman to stand in front of the Lord. 
Numbers5:17 He must pour some holy water into a bowl that is made from clay. He must take some dust from the floor of the tabernacle. And he must put the dust into the water. 
Numbers5:18 Then the priest must bring the woman in front of the Lord. He must make the woman's hair free. He must put into her hands the grain offering. That is the offering because the man does not trust his wife. The priest must hold the bowl that contains bitter water. The bitter water brings a curse on guilty people. 
Numbers5:19 Then the woman must agree to the strong promise that the priest tells her to say. The priest must say to her, “This water brings a curse on guilty people. If no other man has had sex with you, it will not hurt you." 
Numbers5:20 But if another man has had sex with you," 
Numbers5:21 may the Lord bring the curse on you. The bitter water will cause your female parts to become smaller. Your stomach will become very big. 
Numbers5:22 That will happen when you drink the bitter water.” The woman must say, “That should happen. I agree!”" 
Numbers5:23 The priest must write the curses on a scroll of paper. Then he must wash the words off the paper into the bitter water. 
Numbers5:24 He must tell the woman that she must drink the bitter water. This water that brings a curse will go into her body. It may cause her to be very ill. 
Numbers5:25 But first, the priest must take the grain offering from her hands. That is the offering because the man does not trust his wife. The priest must lift it up in front of the Lord. Then he must bring it to the altar." 
Numbers5:26 He must burn a small part of it as a sacrifice. After that, the woman must drink the bitter water." 
Numbers5:27 If the woman has had sex with another man, the water will cause her to have very bad pain. Her female parts will become smaller. Her stomach will become very big. People who know her will curse her." 
Numbers5:28 But, if she did not do those wrong things, the water will not hurt her. She will be able to have babies." 
Numbers5:29 Perhaps a man is jealous because his wife has had sex with another man. Or he may only think that his wife has had sex with another man. This is what the Law says that the priest must do: The man must bring her in front of the Lord. 
Numbers5:30  
Numbers5:31 If the woman did not do those wrong things, you must not punish her husband. But if the woman did do those wrong things, you must punish her.’" 
Numbers6:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers6:2 ‘Tell the Israelites this: “A man or a woman may want to make a special promise to the Lord. That promise will make the person separate from other people, as a Nazirite." 
Numbers6:3 They must not drink wine. They must not drink any alcohol or vinegar. They must not drink the juice of grapes, or eat grapes or raisins." 
Numbers6:4 They must not eat the seeds of grapes for all the time that they are Nazirites. They must not even eat the skins of grapes. 
Numbers6:5 A person must not cut his hair during the time that he is a Nazirite. He must stay like this all the time that he is separate for the Lord. He must let the hair on his head grow long. 
Numbers6:6 He must not go near a dead body while he belongs to the Lord as a Nazirite. 
Numbers6:7 His hair shows that he has become separate for God. So he must not go near a dead body. He must not go near it even if the dead person is his father, mother, brother or sister." 
Numbers6:8 During the time that the person is a Nazirite, they are holy because they belong to the Lord." 
Numbers6:9 The Nazirite may be near to a person when that person dies suddenly. Then his head becomes unclean. He must remove all the hair from his head seven days after the person dies. Then he will be clean. 
Numbers6:10 On day 8, he must bring two doves or two young pigeons to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. He must give them to the priest." 
Numbers6:11 The priest must sacrifice one bird as a sin offering and the other bird as a burnt offering. The priest must do that because the Nazirite has done a wrong thing. He went too near to a dead body. So the priest must make him clean from his sin. The hair on the Nazirite's head will be clean again on that same day. 
Numbers6:12 He must begin his time as a Nazirite again, with a new promise to the Lord. He cannot include the days before he became unclean. He must bring a male lamb that is one year old. That is a guilt offering." 
Numbers6:13 He is a Nazirite for a certain time. When that time finishes, the people must bring him to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers6:14 He must offer to the Lord three animals that have nothing wrong with them. He must offer a young male sheep that is one year old. That is a burnt offering. He must offer a young female sheep that is one year old. That is a sin offering. He must offer a male sheep. That is a friendship offering. 
Numbers6:15 And he must bring a basket of bread that people have made without yeast. He must bring cakes that people have made with the best flour and oil. Also, he must bring thin biscuits with oil on them. But they must not have yeast in them either. He must bring the proper grain offerings and drink offerings with them." 
Numbers6:16 The priest must offer those things to the Lord. And he must sacrifice the sin offering and the burnt offering. 
Numbers6:17 Then the priest must sacrifice the male sheep as a friendship offering to the Lord. He must offer the basket of bread. He must give the grain offering and the drink offering with it. 
Numbers6:18 Then the Nazirite must stand at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. He must remove all the hair from his head. He must put his hair into the same fire where the priest has cooked the friendship offering. 
Numbers6:19 When the male sheep is cooked, the priest must take its shoulder. Also, he must take one cake and one thin biscuit from the basket. The cake and the biscuit must not have yeast in them. The priest must put these things into the hands of the Nazirite who has removed the hair from his head." 
Numbers6:20 The Nazirite must give those things back to the priest. The priest must lift them up to the Lord as a special gift. They are a special gift for the priest. Also, the priest can eat the front part of the sheep and its back leg. After that, the Nazirite can drink wine.”" 
Numbers6:21 Those are the rules about Nazirites. Also, the Nazirite may give anything else that he can give. And he must bring any other gift that he promised to the Lord.’" 
Numbers6:22 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers6:23 ‘Tell Aaron and his sons to use these words to bless the Israelites. 
Numbers6:24 They must say: “The Lord will bless you and he will keep you safe. 
Numbers6:25 The Lord will smile at you and he will be very kind to you. 
Numbers6:26 The Lord will be pleased with you and he will give you peace in your minds.” 
Numbers6:27 Aaron and his sons must use my name to bless the Israelites. If they do that, I will certainly bless them.’" 
Numbers7:1 When Moses had put up the tabernacle, he poured special oil on it. He also poured the oil on the things in the tent, the altar and all the tools. This showed that all these things were special for God to use." 
Numbers7:2 Then the 12 leaders of Israel's tribes brought their offerings. These men were the leaders who had helped to count the people. 
Numbers7:3 They brought their gifts to the Lord. They brought six carts, one cart for every two leaders. They brought 12 oxen. That was one ox for each leader. They brought all their offerings to the tabernacle." 
Numbers7:4 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers7:5 ‘Accept these gifts from the leaders. Give them to the Levites. All the Levites can use them for their work at the Tent of Meeting.’ 
Numbers7:6 So Moses took the carts and the oxen and he gave them to the Levites. 
Numbers7:7 He gave two carts and four oxen to the descendants of Gershon. 
Numbers7:8 He gave four carts and eight oxen to the descendants of Merari for their work. Ithamar was the son of Aaron. He had to tell the descendants of Merari the work that they should do. 
Numbers7:9 But the descendants of Kohath had to carry all the holy things on their shoulders. So Moses did not give any carts or oxen to the descendants of Kohath. 
Numbers7:10 When Moses had poured special oil on the altar, the leaders brought their gifts. They offered their gifts to God in front of the altar." 
Numbers7:11 The Lord said to Moses, ‘One leader must bring a gift to the altar every day. That is how they will make the altar special for me.’" 
Numbers7:12 On the first day, Nahshon, the son of Amminadab from the tribe of Judah brought his gift." 
Numbers7:13 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels, the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering." 
Numbers7:14 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:15 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:16 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:17 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Nahshon, the son of Amminadab." 
Numbers7:18 On day 2, Nethanel, the son of Zuar, from the tribe of Issachar brought his gift." 
Numbers7:19 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels, the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering." 
Numbers7:20 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:21 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:22 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:23 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Nethanel, the son of Zuar." 
Numbers7:24 On day 3, Eliab, the son of Helon, from the tribe of Zebulun brought his gift." 
Numbers7:25 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels, the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering." 
Numbers7:26 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:27 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:28 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:29 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Eliab, the son of Helon." 
Numbers7:30 On day 4, Elizur, the son of Shedeur, from the tribe of Reuben brought his gift." 
Numbers7:31 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels, the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering." 
Numbers7:32 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:33 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:34 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:35 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Elizur, the son of Shedeur." 
Numbers7:36 On day 5, Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai, from the tribe of Simeon brought his gift." 
Numbers7:37 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels. That was the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering. 
Numbers7:38 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:39 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:40 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:41 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai." 
Numbers7:42 On day 6, Eliasaph, the son of Deuel, from the tribe of Gad brought his gift." 
Numbers7:43 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels. That was the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering. 
Numbers7:44 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:45 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:46 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:47 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Eliasaph, the son of Deuel." 
Numbers7:48 On day 7, Elishama, the son of Ammihud, from the tribe of Ephraim brought his gift." 
Numbers7:49 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels. That was the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering. 
Numbers7:50 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:51 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:52 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:53 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Elishama, the son of Ammihud." 
Numbers7:54 On day 8, Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur, from the tribe of Manasseh brought his gift." 
Numbers7:55 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels. That was the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering. 
Numbers7:56 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:57 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:58 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:59 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur." 
Numbers7:60 On day 9, Abidan, the son of Gideoni, from the tribe of Benjamin brought his gift." 
Numbers7:61 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels. That was the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering. 
Numbers7:62 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:63 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:64 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:65 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Abidan, the son of Gideoni." 
Numbers7:66 On day 10, Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai, from the tribe of Dan brought his gift." 
Numbers7:67 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels. That was the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering. 
Numbers7:68 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:69 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:70 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:71 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers7:72 On day 11, Pagiel, the son of Ocran, from the tribe of Asher brought his gift." 
Numbers7:73 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels. That was the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering. 
Numbers7:74 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:75 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:76 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:77 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Pagiel, the son of Ocran." 
Numbers7:78 On day 12, Ahira, the son of Enan, from the tribe of Naphtali brought his gift." 
Numbers7:79 He brought a plate and a bowl that someone had made from silver. The plate weighed 130 shekels. The bowl weighed 70 shekels. That was the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. Both of those were full of good flour that he had mixed with oil. They were for a grain offering. 
Numbers7:80 He brought one small dish that someone had made from gold. It weighed ten shekels and it was full of incense. 
Numbers7:81 He brought one young bull, one male sheep and one male lamb that was less than one year old. Those animals were for a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:82 He brought one male goat for a sin offering. 
Numbers7:83 He also brought two oxen, five male sheep, five male goats, and five male lambs that were less than one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offerings. That was the gift of Ahira, the son of Enan." 
Numbers7:84 The leaders of Israel brought these gifts to the altar when Moses poured special oil on it. They brought all the gifts in the list below. They brought 12 plates and 12 bowls that people had made from silver. 
Numbers7:85 Each plate weighed 130 shekels and each bowl weighed 70 shekels. All the silver weighed 2,400 shekels. That was the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place." 
Numbers7:86 They brought 12 small dishes that people had made from gold. Each small dish weighed ten shekels, the shekel that the Levites used in the holy place. They were each full of incense. All the gold weighed 120 shekels." 
Numbers7:87 All the animals for the burnt offering were 12 young bulls, 12 male sheep and 12 male lambs that were one year old. They also brought the grain offerings with those animals. And they brought 12 male goats for a sin offering." 
Numbers7:88 There were also another 24 oxen, 60 male sheep, 60 male goats and 60 male lambs. The male lambs were one year old. Those animals were for the friendship offering. That was the offering when they made the altar special for God. That was after Moses had poured special oil on it." 
Numbers7:89 When Moses went into the Tent of Meeting, to speak with the Lord, the Lord did speak to him. And Moses heard the Lord. The sound came from above the lid which was on the top of the Covenant Box. On the lid, there were images of two cherubs. The sound came from between the cherubs. That was how the Lord spoke to Moses." 
Numbers8:1 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers8:2 ‘Say to Aaron, “When you put the lamps on the lampstand, the seven lamps must give light in front of the lampstand.” ’" 
Numbers8:3 So Aaron did that. He put its lamps at the front of the lampstand, as the Lord had said to Moses." 
Numbers8:4 A worker had made the lampstand from one piece of gold that he had made flat with a hammer. From its base to the flowers at the top, he had made it in that way. It was completely like the lampstand that the Lord had shown to Moses." 
Numbers8:5 Again the Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers8:6 ‘Take the Levites from among the Israelites and make them clean. 
Numbers8:7 This is how you will do it: Splash on them the water that makes people clean. They must remove all the hair from their whole body, and they must wash their clothes. Then they will be clean." 
Numbers8:8 Then they must take a bull with the proper grain offering and oil. And you must take another bull for a sin offering. 
Numbers8:9 Then you must bring the Levites in front of the Tent of Meeting. You must also bring all the Israelites together there. 
Numbers8:10 You must bring the Levites in front of the Lord. Then the Israelites must put their hands on the Levites' heads. 
Numbers8:11 Aaron must give the Levites to the Lord as a special offering from the Israelites. Then they will be ready to do the Lord 's work. 
Numbers8:12 Then the Levites must put their hands on the heads of the bulls. Then offer one bull for a sin offering and the other one for a burnt offering to the Lord. That will make the Levites clean from their sins. 
Numbers8:13 And you must cause the Levites to stand in front of Aaron and his sons. So they will be a special gift to the Lord. 
Numbers8:14 That is how you will make the Levites separate from the other Israelites. And then the Levites will belong to me. 
Numbers8:15 After that, the Levites will go in to work in the Tent of Meeting. But you must make them clean and you must bring them to me as a special gift." 
Numbers8:16 That is because all the Levites among the Israelites are mine. All the Israelites' firstborn sons are mine. But I have taken the Levites for myself instead. 
Numbers8:17 Every firstborn son among the Israelites is mine. And all the firstborn male animals are mine too. On the day that I killed all the firstborn sons in Egypt, I kept the Israelite firstborn sons safe. So they belong to me in a special way." 
Numbers8:18 But I have not taken all the firstborn sons among the Israelites. Instead, I have taken the Levites." 
Numbers8:19 I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons from among the Israelites. They will work at the Tent of Meeting on behalf of the Israelites. They will make the Israelites clean from their sins. So there will not be a bad disease among the Israelites when they go near to God's holy tent.’ 
Numbers8:20 So Moses and Aaron and all the Israelites did to the Levites everything that the Lord had commanded Moses to do. 
Numbers8:21 The Levites made themselves clean and they washed their clothes. Then Aaron brought them in front of Lord as a special gift. Aaron also burnt sacrifices to make them clean. 
Numbers8:22 After that, the Levites went in to the Tent of Meeting to do their work. They helped Aaron and his sons. The Israelites did everything with the Levites that the Lord had commanded Moses about them." 
Numbers8:23 Then the Lord spoke to Moses again. He said," 
Numbers8:24 ‘These are the rules about the Levites: The men who are 25 years old or older must go in to work in the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers8:25 But they must stop that work when they are 50 years old. They must not do this work any more. 
Numbers8:26 But they can help the other Levites in the Tent of Meeting. They can help them to do their jobs. But they must not have any of their own jobs. Those are the rules about the Levites and their jobs.’ 
Numbers9:1 The Lord spoke to Moses in the Sinai Desert. The Israelites had left Egypt. It was the second year after the Israelites had left that country. It was the first month during that year. The Lord said," 
Numbers9:2 ‘The Israelites must eat the Passover meal at the proper time. 
Numbers9:3 The proper time is during the evening of the 14th day of this month, when it starts to become dark. That is when you must eat it. You must obey all its rules and its laws.’" 
Numbers9:4 So Moses told the Israelites that they should eat the Passover feast. 
Numbers9:5 They ate it in the first month, on the 14th day when it started to become dark. They were in the Sinai Desert. The Israelites did everything that the Lord had commanded Moses about it." 
Numbers9:6 But there were some people who were not clean. That was because they had touched a dead body. So they could not eat the Passover on that day. They came to Moses and Aaron on that day. 
Numbers9:7 They said to Moses, ‘We are not clean because we touched a dead body. But we would like to offer our gift to the Lord at the proper time with the other Israelites.’" 
Numbers9:8 So Moses said to them, ‘Wait here. I will ask the Lord about this.’" 
Numbers9:9 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers9:10 ‘Say to the Israelites, “Anyone among you or your descendants may become unclean because of a dead body. Or they may be away because they are travelling. But they can still eat the Lord 's Passover meal." 
Numbers9:11 They must eat it during the evening of the 14th day of the second month, when it starts to become dark. They must eat the Passover lamb with bread and with bitter herbs. The bread must not have yeast in it." 
Numbers9:12 They must not keep any of the food until the next morning. They must not break any of the bones of the lamb. And they must obey all the rules about the Passover. 
Numbers9:13 But a person might be clean and he might not have travelled away from home. If that person chooses not to eat the Passover meal, you must remove him from his people. That is because he did not offer the proper sacrifices to the Lord at the right time. He must receive the punishment for his sin." 
Numbers9:14 Foreign people may also eat the Lord 's Passover meal, if they are living among you. But they must obey all the rules about the Passover festival. The rules are the same for a foreign person as they are for an Israelite.” ’" 
Numbers9:15 On the day that Moses put up the tabernacle, a cloud covered it. In the evening the cloud looked like a fire over the tent, until morning." 
Numbers9:16 It continued to be like this. The cloud covered it during the day. But at night, the cloud seemed to have fire in it." 
Numbers9:17 When the cloud went up from above the tent, the Israelites started to travel. When the cloud came down again, the Israelites made their camp in that place." 
Numbers9:18 In this way, the Lord decided when the Israelites should start to travel. He also decided where they should stop and make their camp. During all the time that the cloud was over the tabernacle, they stayed in their camp." 
Numbers9:19 Even when the cloud stayed over the tabernacle for many days, the Israelites obeyed the Lord. They did not start to travel." 
Numbers9:20 Sometimes the cloud stayed over the tabernacle for a few days. Then they remained in their camp. When the Lord showed them that they should travel, they started to travel." 
Numbers9:21 Sometimes the cloud stayed there from evening until morning. When the cloud went up in the morning, they started to travel. Whenever the cloud went up, in the day or in the night, they started to travel again." 
Numbers9:22 Sometimes the cloud continued to be above the tabernacle for two days or for a month or for a year. It stayed above it. Then, the Israelites stayed in their camp. They did not start to travel. But when it went up, they did start to travel." 
Numbers9:23 The Lord decided when they should make their camp. And the Lord decided when they should start to travel. So they obeyed the Lord about everything that the Lord said to Moses. 
Numbers10:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers10:2 ‘Make two trumpets from one piece of silver. Use a hammer to make the silver the right shape. Make a noise with the trumpets to tell the people that they must meet together. Also use them to tell the people that they must move the camp. 
Numbers10:3 When the people hear the sound from both trumpets, they must all come to you. They must meet you at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers10:4 But you may want only the leaders of Israel's tribes to come to you. If you want that, a priest should make the sound from only one trumpet." 
Numbers10:5 When the trumpets make a loud short noise, the tribes on the east side of the camp must start to travel." 
Numbers10:6 When they make a second short noise, the tribes on the south side of the camp must start to travel. Short sounds from the trumpets will tell the people that they must start to travel." 
Numbers10:7 But when you want everyone to meet together, the trumpets must make a different sound." 
Numbers10:8 Only Aaron's sons, the priests, may use the trumpets to make a noise. This is a rule for you and for all your descendants." 
Numbers10:9 Use the trumpets to tell everyone when an enemy is attacking you in your own land. Warn the people so that they are ready to fight the enemy. Then the Lord your God will hear you and he will save you from your enemies. 
Numbers10:10 You must also make a noise with the trumpets on days when you are happy. This may happen at your regular festivals or on the first day of a month. You must make a noise with the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over your friendship offerings. I will hear you and I will help you. Remember that I am the Lord your God.’" 
Numbers10:11 In the second year, in the second month, on the 20th day of the month, the cloud went up. It went away from God's Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers10:12 So the Israelites started to travel on their journey away from the Sinai Desert. Then the cloud stopped in the Paran Desert. 
Numbers10:13 This was how the Israelites started to travel for the first time, in the way that the Lord had commanded Moses to lead them." 
Numbers10:14 The flag of the camp of Judah's tribe started to travel first, with all their armies. Nahshon the son of Amminadab was the leader of all their armies." 
Numbers10:15 Nethanel, the son of Zuar, was the leader of the army of the tribe of Issachar." 
Numbers10:16 Eliab, the son of Helon, was the leader of the army of the tribe of Zebulun." 
Numbers10:17 Then the Levites packed the tabernacle. Then Gershon's clan and Merari's clan, who were carrying tabernacle, started to travel." 
Numbers10:18 Next the flag of the camp of Reuben started to travel, with all their armies. Elizur, the son of Shedeur, was the leader of all their armies." 
Numbers10:19 Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai, was the leader of the army of the tribe of Simeon." 
Numbers10:20 Eliasaph, the son of Deuel, was the leader of the army of the tribe of Gad." 
Numbers10:21 Then Kohath's clan started to travel. They were carrying the holy things. Before they arrived at the new camp, the other Levites would put up the tabernacle." 
Numbers10:22 Next the flag of the camp of the tribe of Ephraim started to travel, with all their armies. Elishama the son of Ammihud was the leader of all their armies." 
Numbers10:23 And Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur was the leader of the army of the tribe of Manasseh. 
Numbers10:24 Abidan the son of Gideoni was the leader of the army of the tribe of Benjamin. 
Numbers10:25 Then the flag of the camp of the tribe of Dan started to travel last, with all their armies. They could keep the Israelites safe if an enemy attacked them from behind them. Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai was the leader of all their armies." 
Numbers10:26 Pagiel the son of Ocran was the leader of the army of the tribe of Asher. 
Numbers10:27 And Ahira the son of Enan was the leader of the army of the tribe of Naphtali. 
Numbers10:28 The Israelites marched out like that every time that they started to travel. 
Numbers10:29 Moses spoke to Reuel's son, Hobab. He was the brother of Moses' wife. He was a Midianite. Moses said to Hobab, ‘We are leaving here now to go to another place. The Lord has said to us, “I will give that place to you.” The Lord has promised to help Israel's people with good things. So come with us and we will take care of you.’" 
Numbers10:30 But Hobab said to him, ‘I will not come. Instead, I will return to my own country and to my family there.’" 
Numbers10:31 Moses said, ‘Please do not leave us. You know good places for us to put up our tents in the desert. So you can be our guide." 
Numbers10:32 And if you come with us, we will share with you the good things that the Lord gives to us.’" 
Numbers10:33 So the Israelites left the Lord 's mountain. They travelled for three days. During that time, the Levites carried the Lord 's Covenant Box in front of them. This was so that the Lord could show them where to make their camp." 
Numbers10:34 And the Lord 's cloud was over them during the day, whenever they started to travel from the camp." 
Numbers10:35 Each time that the Covenant Box started to travel Moses said, ‘Be ready, Lord! Cause your enemies to run away in every direction!’" 
Numbers10:36 When they stopped travelling, Moses said, ‘Return, Lord, to be near to the thousands of Israel's people.’" 
Numbers11:1 Then the people started to complain about their problems. The Lord heard them and he became very angry. The Lord sent his fire to burn among them. It destroyed some parts at the edge of the camp. 
Numbers11:2 So the people asked Moses to help them. Moses prayed to the Lord, and the fire stopped." 
Numbers11:3 So that place was called Taberah, because the Lord 's fire burned among them there." 
Numbers11:4 Some foreign people were travelling with the Israelites. These people wanted to eat better food. So the Israelites wept again. They said, ‘We want meat to eat!" 
Numbers11:5 We remember the fish that we ate in Egypt. We had as much as we wanted. And we remember all the nice vegetables that we ate, like cucumbers, leeks, onions and garlic. And we remember the melons." 
Numbers11:6 But now our mouths are dry and we do not want to eat this food. There is not even anything to look at, except this manna.’" 
Numbers11:7 The manna was like small coriander seeds. Its colour was yellow and white. 
Numbers11:8 The people walked about and they picked it up from the ground. They used heavy stones to make it into flour. Or they beat it with a stick. They cooked it in pots of water, and they made cakes with it. The taste of the cakes was like olive oil." 
Numbers11:9 At night, the manna fell with the dew on the ground in the camp." 
Numbers11:10 People in every family were crying at the doors of their tents. And Moses heard them. The Lord became very angry with the people. Moses was also not happy. 
Numbers11:11 So Moses said to the Lord, ‘I am your servant. But you have given this problem to me! It seems that you are not pleased with me. You have given me the hard job to be leader of all these people." 
Numbers11:12 They are not my children! But you have said to me, “Take care of them like parents take care of their babies. Carry them to the land that I have promised to their ancestors.”" 
Numbers11:13 They are complaining to me. They are saying, “Give us meat that we can eat!” But I cannot get meat to feed all these people!" 
Numbers11:14 I cannot be the leader of all these people unless I receive help. This job is too difficult for me. 
Numbers11:15 So if you do not want to help me, please kill me now. I do not want to continue to be so upset. So please be kind to me.’" 
Numbers11:16 So the Lord said to Moses, ‘Choose 70 leaders of the Israelites and bring them to the Tent of Meeting. You must know that they are leaders and officers that the people respect. Bring them to stand there with you." 
Numbers11:17 Then I will come down and I will speak with you there. I will take some of the authority of my Spirit that I gave to you. I will share it with them. Then they will help you to lead the people. So you will not be the only man who is doing that job. 
Numbers11:18 Then say to the people, “The Lord heard you when you were weeping. You said, ‘We want someone to give us meat to eat! Life was better when we were in Egypt.’ So the Lord will give you meat and you will eat it. So make yourselves clean for tomorrow, and then you will eat meat." 
Numbers11:19 You will not eat it only for one day, or two days, or five days, or ten days, or 20 days." 
Numbers11:20 You will eat it every day for a whole month! You will hate the smell of it and it will seem disgusting to you. This is because you have turned against the Lord. He is near to you and you have wept in front of him. You have said, ‘We should never have left Egypt.’ ” ’" 
Numbers11:21 Moses said to the Lord, ‘There are 600,000 men here. But you have said, “I will give them meat to eat for a whole month.”" 
Numbers11:22 Even if we killed all our sheep and cows, we would not have enough meat for them. If we caught every fish in the sea, we still would not have enough!’" 
Numbers11:23 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Do you think that I, the Lord, do not have enough power to do this? I have promised you to do it. So now you will see me do it!’" 
Numbers11:24 So Moses went outside and he told the people the Lord 's message. He chose 70 leaders of the Israelites and he put them around the tabernacle. 
Numbers11:25 Then the Lord came down in the cloud to speak to them. He took some of the authority of his Spirit that he had given to Moses. And he shared it with the 70 leaders. While God's Spirit stayed on them, they prophesied. But they did not do it again after that." 
Numbers11:26 But two men had stayed in the camp. Their names were Eldad and Medad. They were among the men that Moses had chosen. But they had not gone to meet with God at the tabernacle. God's Spirit also came on them. So they prophesied in the camp. 
Numbers11:27 A young man ran to Moses and he said, ‘Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp.’" 
Numbers11:28 Nun's son Joshua was there. Since he was a boy, he had been Moses' servant. Joshua said to Moses, ‘Moses, my master, stop them.’" 
Numbers11:28 Nun's son Joshua was there. Since he was a boy, he had been Moses' servant. Joshua said to Moses, ‘Moses, my master, stop them.’" 
Numbers11:29 But Moses said to him, ‘Perhaps you think that I might be jealous of them. But I would be happy if the Lord would give his Spirit to all his people. I would like them all to be prophets!’" 
Numbers11:30 Then Moses and the leaders returned to the camp. 
Numbers11:31 Then the Lord sent a wind. It blew in birds called quails from the sea. They fell to the ground everywhere around the camp. There were birds everywhere as far as a person could walk in one day in any direction. They were about 1 metre deep all over the ground. 
Numbers11:32 The people were picking up the birds all day and all night and all the next day. Each person picked up at least 1,000 kilograms of birds! They put their dead bodies on the ground everywhere around the camp." 
Numbers11:33 But the Lord became very angry with the people. They had not even started to eat the meat when the Lord sent a very bad disease among them. 
Numbers11:34 They buried there the bodies of people who had wanted better food. So the people called that place Kibroth-Hattaavah. 
Numbers11:35 From Kibroth-Hattaavah the people travelled to Hazeroth. They stayed at Hazeroth. 
Numbers12:1 Moses had married a woman who was a descendant of Cush. Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because he had married that woman. 
Numbers12:2 They said, ‘We do not believe that the Lord has spoken only by Moses. We believe that he has spoken by us too.’ The Lord heard what they said." 
Numbers12:3 Moses was a very humble man. He was the most humble person in the whole world. 
Numbers12:4 Immediately, the Lord said to Moses, Aaron and Miriam, ‘You three people come out to the Tent of Meeting.’ So the three people went there." 
Numbers12:5 Then the Lord came down in a pillar of cloud. He stood at the entrance of the tent. He said that Aaron and Miriam should come nearer. They both came nearer. 
Numbers12:6 Then the Lord said, ‘Listen to my words! If there is a prophet among you, I, the Lord, will show myself to him in a vision. Or I will speak to him in a dream." 
Numbers12:7 But it is different when I speak to Moses. He is the one that I trust to lead all my people. 
Numbers12:8 I speak clearly to him, as I come near to him. I do not say things to him that are hard to understand. He even sees the shape of the Lord. So you should have been afraid to speak against my servant Moses!’" 
Numbers12:9 The Lord was very angry with Aaron and Miriam and he left them. 
Numbers12:10 When the cloud had gone away from above the tent, Miriam's skin became white, like snow. She now had the bad disease called leprosy in her skin. Aaron looked at her and he saw that she had leprosy." 
Numbers12:11 Then Aaron said to Moses, ‘My master, please do not punish us because we have done this very silly thing. We know it was a sin." 
Numbers12:12 But do not let Miriam be like a baby that is born dead, with a body that is only half there.’" 
Numbers12:13 So Moses called loudly to the Lord, ‘Please God, make her well again!’" 
Numbers12:14 But the Lord said to Moses, ‘Even if her father had only spat on her face, she would have to be ashamed for seven days. So you must keep her outside the camp for seven days. After that you can let her come back inside the camp.’" 
Numbers12:15 So Moses kept Miriam outside the camp for seven days. The people did not start to travel again until they had brought Miriam back into the camp again. 
Numbers12:16 After that, the people left Hazeroth. They went to the Paran Desert and they put up their tents there." 
Numbers13:1 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers13:2 ‘I will give the land of Canaan to the Israelites. Now you must send men to explore that land. Choose one man from each tribe of your ancestors. Each man must be a leader among his tribe.’ 
Numbers13:3 So Moses obeyed the Lord 's command. He sent the men from the Paran Desert into Canaan. Each man was a leader among the Israelites. 
Numbers13:4 This is a list of their names: From Reuben's tribe: Shammua, the son of Zaccur." 
Numbers13:5 From Simeon's tribe: Shaphat, the son of Hori." 
Numbers13:6 From Judah's tribe: Caleb, the son of Jephunneh." 
Numbers13:7 From Issachar's tribe: Igal, the son of Joseph." 
Numbers13:8 From Ephraim's tribe: Hoshea, the son of Nun." 
Numbers13:9 From Benjamin's tribe: Palti, the son of Raphu." 
Numbers13:10 From Zebulun's tribe: Gaddiel, the son of Sodi." 
Numbers13:11 From Manasseh's tribe: Gaddi, the son of Susi." 
Numbers13:12 From Dan's tribe: Ammiel, the son of Gemalli." 
Numbers13:13 From Asher's tribe: Sethur, the son of Michael." 
Numbers13:14 From Naphtali's tribe: Nahbi, the son of Vophsi." 
Numbers13:15 From Gad's tribe: Geuel, the son of Maki." 
Numbers13:16 Those are the names of the men that Moses sent to explore the land. Moses changed the name of Hoshea, the son of Nun, to Joshua." 
Numbers13:16 Those are the names of the men that Moses sent to explore the land. Moses changed the name of Hoshea, the son of Nun, to Joshua." 
Numbers13:17 When Moses sent them to explore the land, he said to them, ‘Go north from here, through the Negev Desert. Then continue to go north, into the place where there are hills." 
Numbers13:18 Look at the land to see what it is like. See whether the people who live there are strong or weak. See whether few people or many people live there. 
Numbers13:19 See whether their land is good or bad. Look at the towns where the people live. See if they have strong walls or if they are in the open. 
Numbers13:20 See whether the land is able to make good food grow there, or not. See whether there are forests that grow there. Then try to get some fruit from the land and bring it back here.’ (It was the time of year that the first grapes become ready to eat.)" 
Numbers13:21 So the men went and they explored the land of Canaan. They started in the Zin Desert, and they continued to Rehob, near Lebo-Hamath." 
Numbers13:22 When they had gone through the Negev Desert in the south of the land, they arrived at Hebron. That was where Ahiman, Sheshai and Talmai, the descendants of Anak, were living. They had built Hebron seven years before the Egyptians built Zoan." 
Numbers13:23 Then the men came to the valley called Eshcol. They cut a branch which had one group of grapes on it. It was so large that two men carried it between them on a pole. They also brought some other fruits called pomegranates and figs. 
Numbers13:24 People called that valley ‘Eshcol’ because of the large group of grapes that the Israelites cut down there. 
Numbers13:25 The men returned after they had explored the land for 40 days. 
Numbers13:26 The men returned to Kadesh in the Paran Desert. They brought their message to Moses and Aaron and to all the Israelites there. They told them all about the land of Canaan and they showed its fruit to them. 
Numbers13:27 They said to Moses, ‘We went to look at the land where you sent us. It is certainly a land where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone. This is some of its fruit." 
Numbers13:28 But the people who live in the land are strong. Their towns are very big, and strong walls keep them safe. We also saw some descendants of Anak there." 
Numbers13:29 The Amalekites are living in the Negev, the land in the south of the country. The Hittites, Jebusites and Amorites live in the hill country. The Canaanites live by the sea and beside the edge of the Jordan River.’" 
Numbers13:30 As the people stood in front of Moses, Caleb told them to be quiet. He said, ‘We should go into the land and take it for ourselves. We will certainly be able to do it!’" 
Numbers13:31 But the men who had gone into Canaan with Caleb said, ‘These people are stronger than we are. So we cannot go and fight against them.’" 
Numbers13:32 Those men gave a bad report to the Israelites about the land that they had explored. They said, ‘We went through the whole land and we explored it. The land seems to eat the people who live there! All the people that we saw there were very big and strong." 
Numbers13:33 We also saw descendants of the Nephilites there. And we felt like very small insects when we looked at them. And we seemed like very small insects to them too.’ (The descendants of Anak are also descendants of the Nephilites.) 
Numbers14:1 Then all the people started to weep loudly. And they cried all night. 
Numbers14:2 All the Israelites spoke strongly against Moses and Aaron. All the people said to them, ‘We would rather have died in Egypt, or even in this desert!" 
Numbers14:3 Why is the Lord taking us into this land? Its people will kill us all with swords. They will take our wives and our children for themselves. We think that it would be better for us to return to Egypt.’ 
Numbers14:4 So they said to each other, ‘We should choose a new leader instead of Moses. Then we should return to Egypt.’" 
Numbers14:5 Then Moses and Aaron threw themselves on the ground in front of the whole group of the Israelites. 
Numbers14:6 Joshua, the son of Nun, and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, were two of the men who had explored the land. They were very upset and they tore their clothes." 
Numbers14:6 Joshua, the son of Nun, and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, were two of the men who had explored the land. They were very upset and they tore their clothes." 
Numbers14:7 Joshua and Caleb said to all the Israelites, ‘The land that we travelled through to explore is a very good land." 
Numbers14:7 Joshua and Caleb said to all the Israelites, ‘The land that we travelled through to explore is a very good land." 
Numbers14:8 If the Lord is happy with us, he will bring us into this land. And he will give it to us. In that land there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone." 
Numbers14:9 But do not refuse to obey the Lord. Do not be afraid of the people in that land. They are like food that is ready for us to eat! They have no place to hide. The Lord is with us to help us. So do not be afraid of them.’ 
Numbers14:10 Then all the people wanted to throw stones at Joshua and Caleb to kill them. But the glory of the Lord appeared over the Tent of Meeting and all the Israelites could see it. 
Numbers14:10 Then all the people wanted to throw stones at Joshua and Caleb to kill them. But the glory of the Lord appeared over the Tent of Meeting and all the Israelites could see it. 
Numbers14:11 The Lord said to Moses, ‘These people continue to turn away from me. I did great miracles to show them my power. But still they will not trust me." 
Numbers14:12 I will send a disease to kill them. They will no longer be my people. But I will make you, Moses, the ancestor of a nation that is greater and more powerful than they are.’" 
Numbers14:13 Moses said to the Lord, ‘Please do not do that! You used your great power to bring these people out of Egypt. If you destroy them, the Egyptians will hear about it." 
Numbers14:14 Then they will tell the people who live in this land about it. They know that you, Lord, are among your people. They know that you meet with your people. They know that your cloud stays over them. They know that you lead them as a pillar of cloud during the day and as a pillar of fire during the night." 
Numbers14:15 The people in other nations have heard of your power. So now, if you kill all your people at one time, the people in those nations will say," 
Numbers14:16 “The Lord could not bring those people into the land that he had promised to give to them. That is why he killed all of them in the desert.” 
Numbers14:17 But now, I pray that you will show how powerful you are. You yourself have said," 
Numbers14:18 “The Lord does not quickly become angry. His faithful love for his people continues for ever. He forgives people when they turn against him and they do bad things. But if someone is guilty, he surely punishes them. And he punishes their children, their grandchildren and their grandchildren's children.”" 
Numbers14:19 Because your faithful love is so great, please forgive the sins of these people. You have forgiven them since they left Egypt until now, so please continue to do that now.’" 
Numbers14:20 Then the Lord said, ‘I have forgiven them as you asked me to do." 
Numbers14:21 As surely as I live and all the earth will be full of my glory, I tell you this:" 
Numbers14:22 All these people have seen my glory. They have seen the miracles that I did in Egypt and in the desert. But they have tested me many times now to see if I would punish them. They still do not obey me. 
Numbers14:23 So I tell you, none of them will ever see the land that I promised to give to their ancestors. None of those men who did not trust me will see that place." 
Numbers14:24 But my servant Caleb has thought differently, and he has obeyed me completely. So I will bring him into the land that he explored. It will belong to his descendants." 
Numbers14:25 The Amalekites and the Canaanites live in the valleys now. So tomorrow you must turn back. You must travel through the desert towards the Red Sea.’ 
Numbers14:26 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers14:27 ‘These evil people have complained against me too many times! I have heard the bad things that the Israelites have said against me. 
Numbers14:28 Tell them this: “I, the Lord, have heard your words. I promise you, as surely as I live, I will certainly do to you as you have said." 
Numbers14:29 Your dead bodies will fall to the ground in this desert. All the men that Moses counted will die. Those were the men who were 20 years old or older when he counted them. They complained against me and now they will die in this desert. 
Numbers14:30 None of them will go into the land that I promised to give to you to live in. The only men who will go in are Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua, the son of Nun." 
Numbers14:30 None of them will go into the land that I promised to give to you to live in. The only men who will go in are Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua, the son of Nun." 
Numbers14:31 You said that the people in Canaan would take your children to be their slaves. But I will bring those children into the land. You did not want that land for yourselves, so now it will belong to your children." 
Numbers14:32 But as for you, your dead bodies will fall to the ground in this desert." 
Numbers14:33 Your children will be shepherds in the desert for 40 years. Because you did not trust me, your children will suffer This will continue until all your dead bodies are lying in the desert." 
Numbers14:34 You explored the land of Canaan for 40 days. Now you will suffer for 40 years, because of your sins. Each day becomes one year! You will know that I have become your enemy." 
Numbers14:35 I, the Lord, have spoken! I will certainly punish these wicked people. They have all joined together to speak against me. In this desert they will die. Yes, that will be the end of them!” ’" 
Numbers14:36 The men who had given a bad report to the people about the land of Canaan died immediately. Moses had sent them to explore the land, but they had caused all the people to turn against the Lord. So the Lord sent a bad disease to kill those men." 
Numbers14:37  
Numbers14:38 Only two men who had gone to explore the land did not die. They were Joshua, the son of Nun, and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh." 
Numbers14:38 Only two men who had gone to explore the land did not die. They were Joshua, the son of Nun, and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh." 
Numbers14:39 When Moses gave God's message to all the Israelites, the people were very sad." 
Numbers14:40 The next morning, they got up early. They went up to the top of the hills near there. They said, ‘We have certainly done a bad thing. But now we are ready to obey the Lord! We will go to the place that he has promised to give us.’" 
Numbers14:41 But Moses said, ‘You are still not obeying the Lord 's command. Why is that? You will not have any success." 
Numbers14:42 Do not go into that land. The Lord is not with you. So your enemies will win against you. 
Numbers14:43 The Amalekites and the Canaanites will be there in front of you. They will kill you with their swords. Because you have turned away from the Lord, he will not be with you to help you.’" 
Numbers14:44 But the people did not listen to Moses. Moses and the Lord 's Covenant Box stayed in the camp. But the men marched up to the top of the hills. 
Numbers14:45 Then the Amalekites and the Canaanites who lived in the hill country ran down. They attacked the Israelite men and they chased them to Hormah. 
Numbers15:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers15:2 ‘Say to the Israelites, “You will go into the land that I am giving to you." 
Numbers15:3 When you are living there, you may offer bulls, sheep or goats as a sacrifice to the Lord. You will burn them on the altar as a burnt offering. You may offer special sacrifices to the Lord when you have promised to do it. Or you may offer sacrifices because you choose to do it. Also, you will give sacrifices during your regular festivals. The smell of these sacrifices as they burn will please the Lord." 
Numbers15:4 The person who brings the gift to the Lord must also bring a gift of flour. He must mix the flour with oil. It should be 1 kilogram of your best flour. Mix this flour with 1 litre of olive oil. 
Numbers15:5 You must also give 1 litre of wine for each lamb. You must give that as a drink offering with each burnt offering or sacrifice. 
Numbers15:6 If the animal is a male sheep, you must also offer 2 kilograms of flour. Mix this flour with 1.5 litres of olive oil." 
Numbers15:7 Also, you must pour 1.5 litres of wine on the altar as a drink offering. The smell of this sacrifice will please the Lord." 
Numbers15:8 A person can give a young bull as a burnt offering. This may be a special sacrifice that he has promised to give to God. Or it may be a friendship offering to the Lord. 
Numbers15:9 With the bull, you must also offer 3 kilograms of flour. Mix this flour with 2 litres of olive oil." 
Numbers15:10 Also pour 2 litres of wine on the altar as a drink offering. The smell of this sacrifice will please the Lord. 
Numbers15:11 You must do the same thing for each bull or for each male sheep. And you must do the same thing for each male lamb or for each young goat. 
Numbers15:12 You must do this for every animal that you offer as a gift to God. 
Numbers15:13 All the Israelites must do this when they burn sacrifices. The smell of the sacrifices as they burn will please the Lord. 
Numbers15:14 A stranger who is living in your land may want to give a gift by fire to the Lord. He must do the same as you do now, and for all future time." 
Numbers15:15 These rules will be the same for the Israelites and for all foreign people who live among you. They are for now and for all future time. Both you and the foreign person must obey the Lord 's rules in the same way. 
Numbers15:16 There is the same law for you and for the foreign person who is living among you. There is only one set of rules.” ’ 
Numbers15:17 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers15:18 ‘Tell the Israelites this: “I am bringing you into the land of Canaan. After you have arrived there, you must obey my rules." 
Numbers15:19 When you first eat the food from that land, you must give a special offering to the Lord." 
Numbers15:20 You must give a cake as a special offering from the first part of your flour. Do this as you give your special gift from your threshing floor. 
Numbers15:21 From the first part of your flour, you must give to the Lord a special offering. Your descendants must also continue to do this." 
Numbers15:22 Someone among you might not obey a command that the Lord gave to Moses. But you might not realize your mistake. 
Numbers15:23 It might be any command that the Lord gave to Moses for you and your descendants to obey. 
Numbers15:24 If it was a mistake that the whole group did not know about it, this is what you must do. The whole group of Israelites must prepare a young bull as a burnt offering. The smell of this sacrifice will please the Lord. You must also bring a grain offering, a drink offering and a male goat as a sin offering." 
Numbers15:25 The priest will use these offerings to make the all the Israelites clean from their sin. The Lord will forgive them. Their sin was a mistake and they have brought the proper offerings to the Lord. They have brought to him their burnt offering and their sin offering. So the Lord will forgive them for their mistake. 
Numbers15:26 He will forgive all the Israelites and the foreign people who live among you. The sin was a mistake that the whole group should not have made. 
Numbers15:27 If one person makes a mistake like that, they must offer a female goat as a sin offering. The goat must be one year old." 
Numbers15:28 The priest will use this sacrifice to make the person clean from their sin. Then the Lord will forgive that person for their mistake. The person did not realize that it was a sin against the Lord. 
Numbers15:29 The same rule is for all people who make a mistake like that. It is for the Israelites and for all the foreign people who live among you. 
Numbers15:30 But someone might do something that he knows is a sin. He does it because he wants to do it, and so he insults the Lord. You must remove that person from among the Israelite people. Do that if he is an Israelite or if he is a foreign person who lives among you." 
Numbers15:31 He has not respected the Lord 's teaching. He has not obeyed the Lord 's commands. So you must remove that person completely from among the people. He deserves his punishment because he is guilty.” ’ 
Numbers15:32 When the Israelites were in the desert, a man was picking up sticks of wood on the day of rest." 
Numbers15:33 The people who saw him took him to Moses, Aaron and the whole group of people." 
Numbers15:34 They were not sure how to punish the man. So they put him by himself, with a guard to watch him." 
Numbers15:35 The Lord said to Moses, ‘You must punish this man with death. All the people must take him outside the camp. They must throw stones at him to kill him.’" 
Numbers15:36 So the people took the man outside the camp. They threw stones at him until he died. They did what the Lord had told Moses to do. 
Numbers15:37 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers15:38 ‘Tell the Israelites to put tassels on the corners of their clothes. They must use blue strings to fix the tassels. This is a rule for you and for your descendants 
Numbers15:39 When you look at the tassels, it will help you to remember all the Lord 's commands. You will remember to obey them, and not obey your own ideas. You will not turn away from me and do the things that you yourselves want to do." 
Numbers15:40 In this way, you will remember all my commands and you will obey them. You will belong to me, your God, as my holy people." 
Numbers15:41 I am the Lord your God. I brought you out safely out from Egypt to be your God. I am the Lord your God.’ 
Numbers16:1 One day, Korah the son of Izhar and grandson of Kohath, the son of Levi, decided to speak against Moses. With him were Eliab's sons, Dathan and Abiram, and Peleth's son, On. These men belonged to Reuben's tribe." 
Numbers16:2 Together with 250 leaders of the Israelites, they all turned against Moses. These were famous men that the people had chosen as their leaders." 
Numbers16:3 They all came to speak against Moses and Aaron. They said, ‘You are taking more authority for yourselves than you should. All of us Israelites belong to God as his holy people. The Lord lives among us all. So you should not say that you are more important than the rest of the Lord 's people.’" 
Numbers16:4 When Moses heard that, he threw himself down with his face on the ground." 
Numbers16:5 He said to Korah and to the other leaders who were with him, ‘Tomorrow morning, the Lord will show us who belongs to him as his holy people. He will allow the person who is holy to come near to him." 
Numbers16:6 Now, Korah, do this: You and your friends must get some metal dishes for yourselves." 
Numbers16:7 Tomorrow, put fire and incense in the dishes, to burn in front of the Lord. Then the Lord will choose the man who is holy. It is you Levites who have made yourselves too important!’" 
Numbers16:8 Then Moses said to Korah, ‘Listen to me, you Levites!" 
Numbers16:9 The God of Israel has caused you to be separate from all the other tribes of Israel. He has brought you near to himself, to work in the Lord 's tabernacle. He has chosen you to serve the other Israelite people as they worship the Lord. But it seems that this is not enough for you." 
Numbers16:10 The Lord has brought you, Korah, and the other Levites near to himself. Now it seems that you also want to become priests." 
Numbers16:11 You and you friends have turned against the Lord. It is not only Aaron that you are complaining about!’ 
Numbers16:12 Then Moses called Eliab's sons, Dathan and Abiram, to come to him. But they said, ‘No, we refuse to come!" 
Numbers16:13 You have brought us out of a country where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone. You have brought us here, where we will die in the desert. But it seems that this is not enough for you. You also want to rule us as our master!" 
Numbers16:14 You have certainly not brought us into a land where there is plenty of food and drink. You have not given us fields and vineyards, for us and our descendants to enjoy. You cannot deceive all these men. We will not come up to meet with you!’" 
Numbers16:15 Moses was very angry. He said to the Lord, ‘Do not accept what these men offer to you. I have never taken anything from them, not even one donkey! I have never done a wrong thing to any of them.’" 
Numbers16:16 Moses said to Korah, ‘Tomorrow, you and all your friends must come to the tabernacle. You must come there to stand in front of the Lord. Aaron will be there too." 
Numbers16:17 Each of you must bring a dish and you must put incense in it. You must burn the incense as an offering to the Lord. There will be 250 dishes with incense, one for each of you as well as one for Aaron.’" 
Numbers16:18 So each man brought a dish. Each man put fire on the incense to burn it. They all stood with Moses and Aaron at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers16:19 Korah brought the whole group of Israelites to stand against Moses and Aaron at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. Then the bright glory of the Lord appeared to all the people. 
Numbers16:20 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers16:21 ‘Stand away from all these people so that I can destroy them immediately!’ 
Numbers16:22 But Moses and Aaron threw themselves down with their faces on the ground. They said, ‘You, our God, are the God who gives life to all people. When only one man has done a bad thing, will you be angry with all the people? Is that right?’" 
Numbers16:23 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers16:24 ‘Tell all the people to move away from the tents of Korah, Dathan and Abiram.’" 
Numbers16:25 Moses got up from the ground. He went to Dathan and Abiram. The leaders of the Israelites went with him. 
Numbers16:26 Moses said to all the people, ‘Move away from the tents of these wicked men. Do not touch anything that belongs to them. If you do not move away, God may destroy you together with them, because of all their sins.’" 
Numbers16:27 So the people moved away from the tents of Korah, Dathan and Abiram. Dathan and Abiram came and stood at the doors of their tents, together with their wives, their babies and their children." 
Numbers16:28 Then Moses said, ‘It is the Lord who has sent me to do all these things for you. It was not my own idea. This is how you will know." 
Numbers16:29 If these men die of old age, as all men will die one day, then it shows that the Lord has not sent me." 
Numbers16:30 But if the Lord causes something completely new to happen to them, you will know that they are guilty people. They are the ones who have turned against the Lord. You will know this if the ground opens its mouth and eats them! You will know it if these men and everything that belongs to them fall down into the deep hole of death while they are still alive. Then you will know that these men have insulted the Lord.’" 
Numbers16:31 When Moses finished speaking, a great hole opened in the ground." 
Numbers16:32 It was like a big mouth that ate those men, their families and everything that belonged to them. The earth ate Korah, all his group and everything that belonged to them." 
Numbers16:33 They all went down into the deep hole of death while they were still alive. The ground closed over them and they disappeared. They no longer belonged among God's people. 
Numbers16:34 The other Israelites who were standing near those men heard them shout. So they ran away quickly. They said, ‘Help! The ground might eat us too!’" 
Numbers16:35 Then the Lord sent fire down on the other 250 men who were offering incense to God. The fire destroyed them completely. 
Numbers16:36 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers16:37 ‘Tell Aaron's son, Eleazar, to take the dishes with incense out of the burning fire. That is because those dishes are holy. Then take the coal that was burning in the dishes and throw it a long way away." 
Numbers16:38 Those men died as punishment for their sin. But they were offering incense to the Lord, so the metal dishes that they were holding have become holy. Workers must use hammers to make the dishes into thin metal. Then they must use the metal to cover the altar. That will be a sign to warn the Israelites.’" 
Numbers16:39 So Eleazar took the 250 dishes that the men had used to burn incense. Workers used the bronze from the dishes to cover the altar. 
Numbers16:40 This would help the Israelites to remember that only descendants of Aaron could burn incense in front of the Lord. They knew that God would punish anyone else, as he punished Korah and his friends. Eleazar obeyed the command that the Lord had given to Moses." 
Numbers16:41 But on the next day, the whole group of Israelites complained against Moses and Aaron. They said, ‘You have killed the Lord 's people!’" 
Numbers16:42 When the people met together to complain against Moses and Aaron, they turned to look at the Tent of Meeting. They saw that the cloud now covered the tent. The Lord 's bright glory appeared to them." 
Numbers16:43 Moses and Aaron went to stand at the front of the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers16:44 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers16:45 ‘Move away from the people so that I can destroy them immediately!’ Moses and Aaron threw themselves down with their faces on the ground. 
Numbers16:46 Moses said to Aaron, ‘Take your incense dish. Take coals with fire from the altar. Put them on the dish and add incense on top. Then take it quickly among all the people. This will make them clean from their sin. Be quick! The Lord is very angry with the people. He has already started to punish them with a bad disease!’" 
Numbers16:47 So Aaron did what Moses had told him to do. He ran among the people where the disease was already killing some of them. He burned incense on the coals and he made the people clean from their sin. 
Numbers16:48 He stood between the people who had died and those who were still living. In that way, he caused the disease to stop." 
Numbers16:49 But 14,700 people died because of the disease, as well as the people who had died with Korah." 
Numbers16:50 After the disease stopped, Aaron went back to Moses at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers17:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers17:2 ‘Tell the Israelites to give you 12 sticks, one for each tribe. Write the name of the leader of each tribe on his stick." 
Numbers17:3 Write Aaron's name on the stick from the tribe of Levi. 
Numbers17:4 Take the sticks to the Tent of Meeting and put them in front of the Covenant Box. 
Numbers17:5 Leaves will start to grow on the stick of the man that I have chosen as my priest. In that way, I will cause the Israelites to stop complaining against you.’" 
Numbers17:6 Moses told the Israelites to do this. The leader of each tribe gave him a stick. So there were 12 sticks, one for each tribe. Aaron's stick was among them." 
Numbers17:7 Moses put the sticks in front of the Lord 's Covenant Box in the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers17:8 The next day, Moses went into the tent where the Covenant Box was. He saw that Aaron's stick had started to make leaves. There were even flowers and almonds growing on it! That was the stick from Levi's tribe." 
Numbers17:9 So Moses brought all the sticks out of the tent and he showed them to the people. The leader of each tribe took his own stick. 
Numbers17:10 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Put Aaron's stick in front of the Covenant Box again. It will stay there as a sign to warn people who complain against me. They will know that, if they continue to complain, they will die.’" 
Numbers17:11 Moses did what the Lord commanded him to do. 
Numbers17:12 Then the Israelites said to Moses, ‘Look! We will all die! We cannot escape!" 
Numbers17:13 Anyone who comes near to the Lord 's tabernacle will surely die! Must we all die?’ 
Numbers18:1 The Lord said to Aaron, ‘You and your sons and the other Levites serve me in my holy tent. So if any wrong thing happens there, you are the people who will be guilty. You will also be guilty for any wrong thing that happens among the priests." 
Numbers18:2 Bring the other people of your tribe, the Levites, to help you in the tabernacle. They will join with you while you and your sons serve me there." 
Numbers18:3 They must take care of the tabernacle on your behalf. But they must never go near anything that is inside the Holy Place. And they must not go near the altar. If they do, they will die, and you will die too." 
Numbers18:4 The Levites must join with you as you serve me in the Tent of Meeting. It is their job to do all the work to take care of the Tent. No other people have authority to join you as you work there. 
Numbers18:5 You and your sons must take care of the Holy Place and the altar. Then I will not have to punish the Israelites again. 
Numbers18:6 I have chosen your family, the Levites, from among the other Israelite tribes. I, the Lord, have given them to you. They will help you to take care of the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers18:7 But only you, Aaron, and your sons will serve me as priests. You alone will serve me at the altar and in the Most Holy Place behind the curtain. I have chosen you to serve me as my priests. That is my gift to you. If any other person tries to do that work, they must die.’" 
Numbers18:8 The Lord said to Aaron, ‘I have given you authority over the offerings that people give to me. I give to you all the holy gifts that the Israelite people bring to me. They will belong to you and to your sons, the priests. That will be your share for all time." 
Numbers18:9 The share for the priests will be the parts of the holy offerings that do not burn on the altar. A part of all these gifts will belong to you: grain offerings, sin offerings and guilt offerings. These are holy gifts that will belong to you and to your sons." 
Numbers18:10 Any man in your family may eat these gifts. But remember to eat them in a holy place, because they are holy gifts." 
Numbers18:11 You will also receive part of the special gifts that the Israelites lift up as an offering to me. I give these parts to you and to your sons and daughters, for all time. Any person in your family who is clean may eat it." 
Numbers18:12 You will also receive part of the first crops that people give to the Lord each year. I give you the best olive oil, the best wine and the best grain from these gifts." 
Numbers18:13 All of the first food that people give to the Lord from their harvest belongs to you. Any person in your family who is clean may eat it. 
Numbers18:14 Everything in Israel that people have chosen to give to me will belong to you. 
Numbers18:15 I give you every firstborn animal and male child that people offer to the Lord. But people must pay a price to buy back their firstborn sons. They must also buy back any firstborn male animal that is unclean. 
Numbers18:16 They must do this when they are one month old. The price for each one will be five shekels of silver. The shekel must have the same weight as the shekel that the Levites use in God's holy place. There are 20 gerahs in one shekel. 
Numbers18:17 But people cannot buy back the firstborn of a cow, a sheep or a goat. These animals are holy. Splash their blood on the altar and burn the fat from them. The smell of these offerings will please the Lord." 
Numbers18:18 The meat from these animals will belong to you. That will be the same as the meat from the ribs and the right back leg of the special gifts that you lift up to me. These all belong to you. 
Numbers18:19 I give you all the special gifts that the Israelites offer to the Lord. They will belong to you, to your sons and to your daughters. That is a rule for all time. This is the Lord 's promise to you and to your descendants for all time. It will never change.’" 
Numbers18:20 Then the Lord said to Aaron, ‘When Israel's tribes receive land to be their home, you priests will not have your own land. You will not have a share in the things that they receive. Instead, I myself am the share that belongs to you." 
Numbers18:21 I give to the Levites all the tithes that the Israelites give to me. These tithes will belong to the Levites because they serve me in the Tent of Meeting. The tithes will pay them for their work. 
Numbers18:22 The other Israelites must not go near the Tent of Meeting again. If they do go near it, they will be guilty of a sin. They will die as their punishment." 
Numbers18:23 Only the Levites must do the work in the Tent of Meeting. And if they do anything wrong there, they will be guilty. This will be a rule for you and for all your descendants. The Levites will not receive their own land among the other Israelite tribes." 
Numbers18:24 Instead, I give to the Levites the tithes that the Israelites bring to the Lord as their offerings. That is why I have said to the Levites, “You will not receive your own land, as the other Israelites do.” ’" 
Numbers18:25 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers18:26 ‘You must tell the Levites, “When you receive the tithes from the Israelites, you must offer one tenth of those tithes as a special gift to the Lord. That will be your tithe from the tithes that I have given to you." 
Numbers18:27 The Lord will accept this special gift like the tithe that a farmer gives from his grain or his wine. 
Numbers18:28 That is how you will make a special offering to the Lord from the tithes that you receive from the Israelites. You must give this special offering to Aaron the priest. 
Numbers18:29 From all the gifts that you receive, you must give the best part to the Lord. That is the part that belongs to the Lord.”" 
Numbers18:30 You must also tell the Levites, “When you give the best parts as an offering to the Lord, he will accept them. It will be as if they came from your own fields and vineyards." 
Numbers18:31 You Levites and your families may eat the part that remains from the gifts that you receive. You may eat this part anywhere that you choose. It belongs to you because of your work in the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers18:32 If you have given the best part to the priests, you will not be guilty when you eat what remains. But remember that these gifts from the people of Israel are holy. You must obey these rules about them. If you eat them in a careless way, your punishment will be death.” ’" 
Numbers19:1 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers19:2 ‘This is another rule that the Lord has commanded in his Law. Tell the Israelites to bring you a young red cow that is perfect. It must not have anything wrong with it. Nobody must have put a yoke on it. 
Numbers19:3 You must give the cow to Eleazar the priest. He must take it outside the camp. People must kill it there while Eleazar watches. 
Numbers19:4 Eleazar must use his finger to take some of the blood from the cow. He must turn towards the Tent of Meeting and splash the blood seven times in that direction. 
Numbers19:5 Then people must burn the whole cow while Eleazar is watching. They must burn its body completely, with the skin, the meat, the blood and everything that is inside its body." 
Numbers19:6 The priest must then take some wood, some hyssop leaves and some red wool. He must throw these things on the fire where the cow is burning." 
Numbers19:7 Then the priest must wash his clothes and wash his whole body with water. After that, he can come into the camp, but he will continue to be unclean until the evening." 
Numbers19:8 The man who burns the cow must also wash his clothes in water, as well as his whole body. He will continue to be unclean until the evening." 
Numbers19:9 Then a man who is clean must pick up all the ashes of the red cow. He must put them in a clean place outside the camp. Keep them safe there for the Israelites to use. Mix the ashes with water. That water will cause unclean people to become clean again. It is water to make people clean from their sin. 
Numbers19:10 The man who picks up the cow's ashes must also wash his clothes. He will continue to be unclean until evening. This rule will be for all time, for the Israelites and for foreign people who are living among them." 
Numbers19:11 Any person who touches a dead body will be unclean for seven days. 
Numbers19:12 He must use the water to wash himself on the third day and on the seventh day. Then he will be clean again. If he does not wash himself on the third day and on the seventh day, he will not be clean." 
Numbers19:13 If anyone touches the body of a dead person and he does not make himself clean again, he causes the Lord 's tabernacle to become unclean. You must remove that person from among the Israelites. He continues to be unclean because he did not splash the special water on himself." 
Numbers19:14 This is another rule: When someone dies in a tent, anyone who goes into the tent will be unclean for seven days. Everyone who is in the tent will become unclean." 
Numbers19:15 Any pot or bowl in the tent that does not have a lid will also become unclean. 
Numbers19:16 These people also become unclean: anyone who touches the dead body of a person out in the country. Somebody may have killed the dead person or they may have died by themselves. Also, anyone who touches a human bone or the grave of a dead person. All these people will be unclean for seven days." 
Numbers19:17 When a person has become unclean, this is how to make them clean again: Take some of the ashes from the red cow that was burned. Put the ashes in a jar and pour some fresh water over them." 
Numbers19:18 Then someone who is clean must take a branch of hyssop. He must put it into the water. He must use the hyssop to splash the water on the tent and on everything that is in it. He must also splash the water on all the people who have been in the tent. He must also splash it on anyone who has touched a human bone or a dead body or someone's grave. 
Numbers19:19 The clean person must splash the water on the unclean person on the third day and on the seventh day. On the seventh day he will cause the person to be clean again. Then the unclean person must use water to wash his clothes and his whole body. In the evening, that person will be clean again." 
Numbers19:20 But if an unclean person does not make himself clean in this way, you must remove that person from among the Israelites. He has caused the Lord 's holy tent to become unclean. He did not use the special water that makes people clean. So he continues to be unclean." 
Numbers19:21 This is a rule for all time for the people. The man who splashes the special water on unclean people must wash his clothes. Anyone who touches the special water will be unclean until evening. 
Numbers19:22 If an unclean person touches anything, that thing also becomes unclean. If anyone else touches the unclean thing, he also will be unclean until evening.’" 
Numbers20:1 In the first month, the Israelites came to the Zin Desert. They put up their tents at Kadesh. Miriam died there and the people buried her." 
Numbers20:2 The people did not have any water to drink. They complained to Moses and Aaron. 
Numbers20:3 They said to Moses, ‘We would rather be dead! When the Lord killed our brothers, he should have killed us too." 
Numbers20:4 We are the Lord 's people. Have you brought us and our animals here to die? 
Numbers20:5 You should not have brought us to this terrible place. When we were in Egypt, we had grain, figs, grapes and pomegranates. There is no food like that here! And there is no water to drink!’" 
Numbers20:6 Moses and Aaron went away from the people to the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. They threw themselves down with their faces on the ground. The glory of the Lord appeared to them. 
Numbers20:7 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers20:8 ‘Get the stick from in front of the Covenant Box. Take your brother Aaron with you and go to the whole group of the Israelites. Then speak to that rock that you can all see. Water will pour out from it. You will give water to the people and their animals for them to drink.’ 
Numbers20:9 So Moses did what the Lord commanded him to do. He took the stick from its place in the tabernacle. 
Numbers20:10 Then Moses and Aaron brought all the people to meet together in front of the rock. Moses said to them, ‘Listen now, you people who refuse to obey God. It seems that we must bring water out of this rock for you!’" 
Numbers20:11 Moses lifted up his arm. He hit the rock twice with his stick. Water poured out from the rock. The people and their animals drank the water. 
Numbers20:12 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, ‘You did not trust me enough to show the Israelites that I am holy. So you will not lead them into the land that I have promised to give to them.’" 
Numbers20:13 The place where this happened was called ‘Meribah’, because the Israelites quarrelled with the Lord there. But he showed them there that he was their holy God." 
Numbers20:14 From Kadesh, Moses sent men to the king of Edom with this message: ‘We are Israelites, your relatives. You know about all the troubles that have happened to us." 
Numbers20:15 Our ancestors went to Egypt. We lived there for many years. The people in Egypt were cruel to us. 
Numbers20:16 But when we asked the Lord to help us, he heard us. He sent an angel and he brought us out from Egypt. Now we are here at Kadesh, which is a town at the border of your land." 
Numbers20:17 Please let us travel through your land. We will not go through any fields or through any vineyards. We will not even drink water from your wells. We will go along the main road. We will not leave that road on either side until we have gone through all your land.’ 
Numbers20:18 The king of Edom said, ‘You must not travel through my country. If you do, we will bring our army to attack you.’" 
Numbers20:19 The Israelites replied, ‘We will stay on the main road. If our animals drink your water, we will pay for it. We only want to travel through your country. We do not want anything else.’" 
Numbers20:20 The king of Edom said, ‘No, you must not travel through our country.’ He sent many strong soldiers to attack the Israelites." 
Numbers20:21 In that way, the Edomites stopped the Israelites from travelling through Edom. So the Israelites turned away from there." 
Numbers20:22 All the Israelites travelled from Kadesh to Mount Hor. 
Numbers20:23 When they were there, at the border of Edom's land, the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron." 
Numbers20:24 He said, ‘Aaron will soon die. He will not go into the land that I am giving to the Israelites. That is because you both refused to obey me at Meribah." 
Numbers20:25 Moses, you must take Aaron and his son Eleazar to climb up Mount Hor." 
Numbers20:26 Take the priest's clothes from Aaron and put them on Eleazar. Aaron will die there.’ 
Numbers20:27 Moses did what the Lord told him to do. Moses, Aaron and Eleazar climbed up Mount Hor, while the Israelites watched." 
Numbers20:28 Moses took the priest's clothes from Aaron and he put them on Eleazar. Aaron died there, at the top of the mountain. Moses and Eleazar walked back down the mountain." 
Numbers20:29 The Israelites realized that Aaron had died. They wept for 30 days because of his death. 
Numbers21:1 The king of Arad lived in the Negev Desert, in the south part of Canaan. People told him that the Israelites were coming on the road to Atharim. So he attacked the Israelites and he caught some of them." 
Numbers21:2 The Israelites made this promise to the Lord: ‘If you put these people under our power, we will destroy their towns for you.’" 
Numbers21:3 The Lord accepted the Israelites' promise. He put the Canaanites under their power. The Israelites destroyed them and all their towns. After that, the place was called Hormah." 
Numbers21:4 The Israelites left Mount Hor. They travelled round the edge of Edom to the Red Sea. As they travelled, the people were upset." 
Numbers21:5 They complained to God and to Moses. They said, ‘You should not have brought us from Egypt to die here in the desert. There is nothing to eat. There is no water to drink. We do not like this terrible food, manna.’" 
Numbers21:6 Then the Lord sent snakes among the people. They bit the people and many of the Israelites died. 
Numbers21:7 So the people came to Moses and they said, ‘We did a bad thing when we spoke against the Lord and against you. Please pray to the Lord on our behalf. Ask him to remove the snakes from us.’ So Moses prayed for the people." 
Numbers21:8 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Make a model of a snake and put it up high on a pole. When a snake bites anyone, they must look at the bronze snake. Then they will not die.’" 
Numbers21:9 So Moses made a bronze snake and he put it on a pole. When a snake bit anyone and they looked at the bronze snake, they did not die." 
Numbers21:10 The Israelites travelled to Oboth. They put up their tents there. 
Numbers21:11 Then they travelled from Oboth, and they put up their tents at Iye-Abarim, in the desert. That place is on the east border of Moab." 
Numbers21:12 Then they travelled again and they put up their tents in the Zered Valley. 
Numbers21:13 They left there and they put up their tents in the desert on the north side of the Arnon River. That river is the border between the Moabites and the Amorites. 
Numbers21:14 The Book of the Lord 's Wars tells about this. It talks about Waheb in Suphah and about the valleys of the Arnon River. 
Numbers21:15 It also tells about the sides of the valleys on the border of Moab that lead to the town of Ar. 
Numbers21:16 From there, the Israelites continued to travel until they arrived at Beer. That is the well where the Lord had said to Moses, ‘Bring the people together. Then I will give water to them.’" 
Numbers21:17 The Israelites sang this song at that well: ‘Sing to this well. Ask it to give water to us. 
Numbers21:18 This was the well that our rulers dug. Our leaders dug it with their sceptres and their ruler's sticks.’ After that, the Israelites went from the desert to Mattanah." 
Numbers21:19 Then they went from Mattanah to Nahaliel. They went from Nahaliel to Bamoth. 
Numbers21:20 They went from Bamoth to the valley in the region of Moab. They put up their tents near the top of Mount Pisgah that is high above the desert. 
Numbers21:21 The Israelites sent men with a message to Sihon, the king of the Amorites." 
Numbers21:22 They said, ‘Please let us travel through your country. We will not go through any fields or through any vineyards. We will not even drink water from your wells. We will go along the main road. We will not leave that road on either side until we have gone through all your land.’" 
Numbers21:23 But Sihon would not let the Israelites travel through his land. Sihon and his army marched to Jahaz, in the desert. They attacked the Israelites there." 
Numbers21:24 The Israelites fought against the army of Sihon and they won. They got power over the land from the Arnon River to the River Jabbok. But the border of the Ammonites' land had strong towns, so they could not go beyond them." 
Numbers21:25 The Israelites took all the cities of the Amorites for themselves. Those cities included Heshbon and the towns around it. 
Numbers21:26 Heshbon was the city of Sihon, the king of the Amorites. He had fought against the king of Moab. He had taken from the king of Moab the land as far as the Arnon River." 
Numbers21:27 Because of that, the Amorite singers wrote this song: ‘Come to Heshbon and build it up again. Build the city of Sihon again." 
Numbers21:28 An army that was like a fire went out from Heshbon. It was like a flame that went out from Sihon's city. It destroyed Ar in Moab, and everything on the hills near the Arnon River." 
Numbers21:29 It will be very bad for you, people of Moab. King Sihon has destroyed you people who worship the god Chemosh. Your men have run away and your women have become prisoners." 
Numbers21:30 We have completely won against the Moabites! We have destroyed Heshbon, and as far as Dibon. We have killed them as far as Nophah, and all the way to Medeba.’" 
Numbers21:31 So the Israelites lived in the land of the Amorites. 
Numbers21:32 Moses sent men to find the best way to attack Jazer. Then the Israelites attacked Jazer and the towns around it. They caused the Amorites who lived there to run away. 
Numbers21:33 After that, the Israelites travelled towards Bashan. Og, the king of Bashan, marched out with his army to fight against them at Edrei." 
Numbers21:34 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Do not be afraid of Og. I will put him under your power, as well as his army and his land. Attack him in the same way that you attacked Sihon, the king of the Amorites who ruled in Heshbon.’" 
Numbers21:35 So the Israelites killed Og and his sons and all his army. Nobody was left alive. Their land became the Israelites' land. 
Numbers22:1 The Israelites travelled to Moab. They lived in tents at the side of the Jordan River. Jericho city was on the other side of the river. 
Numbers22:2 The king of Moab at that time was Balak, the son of Zippor. He saw what the Israelites had done to the Amorites." 
Numbers22:3 The people in Moab were afraid because there were so many Israelites. All the people in Moab became very afraid of the Israelites. 
Numbers22:4 So the Moabites said to the leaders of the Midianites, ‘This large group of people will destroy everything around us. They will be like a bull that eats all the grass in a field! Nothing will remain!’ So Balak, the king of Moab," 
Numbers22:5 sent men to get Balaam, the son of Beor. Balaam was living near the Euphrates River at Pethor, where his people lived. Balak told the men to say to Balaam, ‘A large group of people has come here from Egypt. They cover all the ground, everywhere. They have put up their tents near to our land." 
Numbers22:6 They are more powerful than I am. Come here and put a curse on them. Then maybe I will win against them and I can chase them away from our land. I know that you have the authority to bless people or to curse them.’ 
Numbers22:7 The leaders of Moab and Midian went to find Balaam. They took the money to pay for Balaam's work. When they found him, they told him what Balak had said." 
Numbers22:8 Balaam said to them, ‘Stay here tonight. I will talk to the Lord. Tomorrow, I will tell you his answer.’ So the Moabite officers stayed with Balaam." 
Numbers22:9 Then God came to Balaam. He asked Balaam, ‘Who are these men who are staying with you?’" 
Numbers22:10 Balaam said to God, ‘Zippor's son Balak, the king of Moab, has sent a message to me." 
Numbers22:11 He said, “A big group of people has come from Egypt and they cover all the ground. So please come and curse them for me. Then perhaps I will be able to fight them and send them away.” ’" 
Numbers22:12 God said to Balaam, ‘Do not agree to go with them. You must not curse those people who have come from Egypt. I have blessed them.’" 
Numbers22:13 The next morning, Balaam said to the officers from Moab, ‘Go back to Moab. The Lord has told me that I should not go with you.’" 
Numbers22:14 So the officers went back to Moab. They told King Balak that Balaam refused to come with them. 
Numbers22:15 Then Balak sent other officers to speak to Balaam. These officers were even more important than the first group, and there were more of them." 
Numbers22:16 They said to Balaam, ‘King Balak says, “Do not let anything stop you from coming to me." 
Numbers22:17 I will certainly make you rich and famous. I will do for you anything that you want. So please come and curse these people for me.” ’ 
Numbers22:18 Balaam said to them, ‘No, I will only do what the Lord tells me to do. I can do no more than that, and no less. Even if Balak gives me his house, all his gold and all his silver, I will only do what the Lord says." 
Numbers22:19 Stay here tonight, as the other men did. I will find out if the Lord has anything more to tell me.’" 
Numbers22:20 That night, God said to Balaam, ‘These men have asked you to go with them, so go with them. But only do what I tell you.’" 
Numbers22:21 In the morning, Balaam prepared his donkey to travel. He went with the officers to Moab." 
Numbers22:22 God was angry because Balaam went with the men. The angel of the stood on the road to stop Balaam. Balaam was riding on his donkey and his two servants were with him. 
Numbers22:23 The angel of the Lord was holding a sword. When the donkey saw the angel, it tried to leave the road and go into a field. Balaam hit the donkey to make it go back to the road." 
Numbers22:24 Then the angel of the Lord stood on the road between two vineyards. The path was narrow there, with a wall on each side." 
Numbers22:25 When the donkey saw the angel of the Lord, it pushed against the wall. Balaam's foot became fixed between the donkey and the wall. So Balaam hit the donkey again." 
Numbers22:26 Then the angel of the Lord moved on. He stood in a very narrow place where there was no space to pass on either side. 
Numbers22:27 When the donkey saw the angel of the Lord it lay down on the ground. Balaam was still sitting on the donkey and he became very angry. He hit the donkey with his stick. 
Numbers22:28 Then the Lord caused the donkey to speak. It said, ‘What have I done to hurt you? Why have you hit me three times like that?’" 
Numbers22:29 Balaam said to the donkey, ‘You have made me look silly. If I had a sword in my hand now, I would kill you.’" 
Numbers22:30 The donkey said to Balaam, ‘I am your own donkey that you ride every day. Do I usually do things like this to you?’ Balaam said, ‘No.’" 
Numbers22:31 Then the Lord let Balaam see the angel of the Lord. He could see that the angel stood there with a sword in his hand. Balaam lay down with his face down towards the ground. 
Numbers22:32 The angel of the Lord said to him, ‘You should not have hit your donkey like that! I have come here to stop you because you refuse to obey me." 
Numbers22:33 Three times the donkey saw me and turned back. If it had not done that, I would have killed you. But I would not have killed your donkey.’" 
Numbers22:34 Then Balaam said to the angel of the Lord, ‘I have done a wrong thing. I did not realize that you were standing in the road to stop me. If you do not want me to continue, I will return to my home.’" 
Numbers22:35 But the angel of the Lord said to Balaam, ‘Go with the men. But you must say only the words that I will tell you.’ So Balaam went with Balak's officers." 
Numbers22:36 Balak heard the news that Balaam was coming. He went out to meet Balaam at the border of Moab's land. The town was beside the Arnon River. 
Numbers22:37 Balak said to Balaam, ‘You should have come the first time that I sent men to get you. Why did you not come? Did you think that I could not pay you with enough good things?’" 
Numbers22:38 Balaam said to Balak, ‘Look, I have come to you now! But I cannot choose to say anything. I can only say the words that God tells me to speak.’" 
Numbers22:39 Balaam went with Balak to Kiriath-Huzoth. 
Numbers22:40 When they arrived there, Balak killed bulls and sheep as a sacrifice. He sent some of the meat to Balaam and the officers who were with him." 
Numbers22:41 The next day, Balak took Balaam to Bamoth-Baal. From there, Balaam could see some of the big group of the Israelites." 
Numbers23:1 Balaam said to King Balak, ‘Build seven altars here for me. Prepare seven bulls and seven male sheep.’" 
Numbers23:2 Balak did this. Balaam and Balak then offered a bull and a male sheep on each altar as a sacrifice. 
Numbers23:3 Then Balaam said to Balak, ‘Stand next to your burnt offering. I will go to see if the Lord will come to meet me. If he shows something to me, I will tell you about it.’ Then Balaam went to the top of a hill where there were no trees." 
Numbers23:4 God met Balaam there. Balaam said to him, ‘I have made seven altars. On each altar, I have offered a bull and a male sheep.’" 
Numbers23:5 The Lord told Balaam the message that he should speak to Balak. 
Numbers23:6 So Balaam returned to Balak. Balak was still standing beside his burnt offering with all the Moabite officers. 
Numbers23:7 Then Balaam spoke his message from God. He said, ‘Balak, the king of Moab, has brought me from Syria. He brought me from the mountains in the east. He said “Come and curse Jacob's descendants for me. Say bad things against the Israelites!”" 
Numbers23:8 But I cannot curse these people, because God has not cursed them. I cannot speak against people that the Lord does not speak against." 
Numbers23:9 When I stand on the rocks, I can see the Israelites. I can watch them from the hills. They are people who are not the same as the other nations." 
Numbers23:10 Nobody can count Jacob's descendants. They are as many as the dust on the ground! It would be too difficult to count even a quarter of the Israelites. I would like to die in peace like those righteous people!’ 
Numbers23:11 Balak said to Balaam, ‘You have not done what I wanted you to do! I brought you here to curse my enemies. But instead, you have blessed them!’" 
Numbers23:12 Balaam answered, ‘I can only speak the message that the Lord has told me.’" 
Numbers23:13 Then Balak said to Balaam, ‘Please come with me to another place where you can see the Israelites. You will not see all of them from there. Then curse those people for me.’" 
Numbers23:14 Balak took Balaam to the field of Zophim. It was at the top of Mount Pisgah. Balak built seven altars there. He offered a bull and a male sheep on each altar as sacrifices. 
Numbers23:15 Balaam said to Balak, ‘Stay here beside your burnt offering. I will go to meet with the Lord.’" 
Numbers23:16 The Lord met Balaam and told him the message that he should speak to Balak. He told Balaam to go and tell it to Balak. 
Numbers23:17 So Balaam went back to Balak. Balak and the Moabite officers were standing beside the burnt offerings. Balak asked Balaam, ‘What did the Lord say?’" 
Numbers23:18 Balaam spoke his message from God. He said, ‘Balak, son of Zippor, be ready! Listen carefully to me." 
Numbers23:19 God is not human. He does not tell lies. He does not change his thoughts. If he promises to do something, it happens." 
Numbers23:20 He told me that I must bless the Israelites. He has blessed them, so I must do it too." 
Numbers23:21 The Lord their God is with them, to help them. They give him honour as their king. He has no plans to punish the Israelites. No trouble will come to Jacob's descendants." 
Numbers23:22 He brought them out of Egypt. He fights on their behalf, as strong as a wild bull." 
Numbers23:23 Nobody can curse the Israelites. No magic has any power to hurt them. Now people will say about them, “See the great things that God has done for them!”" 
Numbers23:24 The Israelites are like a strong lion. It eats the animals that it has killed. It does not rest until it has eaten as much as it wants. It also drinks their blood.’ 
Numbers23:25 Balak said to Balaam, ‘You do not have to curse the Israelites, but please do not bless them!’" 
Numbers23:26 Balaam replied, ‘I have already told you, “I must do everything that the Lord tells me.” ’" 
Numbers23:27 Balak said to Balaam, ‘Let me take you to a different place. Perhaps God will let you curse the Israelites from that place.’" 
Numbers23:28 So Balak took Balaam to the top of Mount Peor. From there they could look over the desert. 
Numbers23:29 Balaam said, ‘Build seven altars here. Prepare seven bulls and seven male sheep as sacrifices.’" 
Numbers23:30 So Balak offered a bull and a male sheep on each altar as sacrifices. 
Numbers24:1 Balaam realized that the Lord wanted to bless the Israelites. So he did not use magic again to find out what the Lord wanted him to do. Instead, he looked towards the desert." 
Numbers24:2 When he looked, he saw the Israelite people. They had put up their tents in groups for each tribe. Then the Spirit of God came on Balaam." 
Numbers24:3 He spoke this message: ‘This is God's message that he has given to Balaam, the son of Beor. It is the words of a man who understands what God is saying." 
Numbers24:4 It is the message of a man who hears God's words. I am a man who sees a vision that God Almighty has shown to him. I fall with my face towards the ground, but my eyes are open! I see this:" 
Numbers24:5 The tents where the Israelites live are beautiful! 
Numbers24:6 They are like green gardens in a valley beside a river. They are like tall aloe trees that the Lord has put there. They are like cedar trees that grow beside water. 
Numbers24:7 God will give them plenty of rain. Their descendants will always have plenty of water. Their king will be more powerful than Agag. Their kingdom will be famous. 
Numbers24:8 God brought them out of Egypt. God fights for them like a wild bull. He will destroy the nations who are their enemies. He will break their enemies' bones into pieces. He will shoot his arrows at them. 
Numbers24:9 The Israelites are like a lion that is lying down. It is ready to attack. When it is asleep, nobody is brave enough to wake it. Those who bless you, Israel, are truly blessed. And those who curse you are truly cursed.’" 
Numbers24:10 When Balaam said that, Balak became very angry with him. He hit his hands together and he said to Balaam, ‘I asked you to come here and to curse my enemies, the Israelites. But you have blessed them three times!" 
Numbers24:11 So go home now. I said that I would pay you very well. But the Lord has stopped me from giving you anything.’ 
Numbers24:12 Balaam said to Balak, ‘I already said this to the men that you sent to bring me." 
Numbers24:13 I told them, “I can only speak the message that the Lord tells me. I cannot do good things or bad things just because I want to do them. Even if Balak gives his palace full of silver and gold to me, I cannot do anything different. I have to obey the Lord 's command.”" 
Numbers24:14 So I will now return to my own people. But listen! Before I go, I will tell you what these Israelites will do to your people in the future.’" 
Numbers24:15 Then Balaam spoke this message from God. He said, ‘This is the message of Balaam, the son of Beor. It is the message of a man who sees clearly." 
Numbers24:16 It is the message of a man who hears God's words. The Most High God has shown me things that only he knows. I am a man who sees a vision that God Almighty has shown to him. I fall with my face towards the ground, but my eyes are open! I see this:" 
Numbers24:17 I see a king who will come from among the Israelites. He will not come now, but at a future time. He will appear as king, like a bright star. He will knock down the leaders of Moab. He will destroy the descendants of Sheth." 
Numbers24:18 He will win against his enemies in Edom and Seir. The Israelites will become stronger. 
Numbers24:19 A descendant of Jacob will become their ruler. He will destroy all the people who are still alive in the city.’ 
Numbers24:20 Then, in his vision, Balaam saw the Amalekites. He said, ‘Amalek was the most powerful of all the nations. God will destroy it now and for ever.’" 
Numbers24:21 Then Balaam saw the Kenites. He spoke this message: ‘The place where you live seems strong and safe, high up among the rocks." 
Numbers24:22 But Assyria's army will attack you. They will take you away as prisoners.’ 
Numbers24:23 Then Balaam spoke this message: ‘It is very bad for you! Nobody can live when God does these things! 
Numbers24:24 Ships will come from the coast of Cyprus. Their soldiers will attack Assyria and Eber. Then God will destroy them too.’ 
Numbers24:25 After he spoke those messages, Balaam returned to his home. King Balak also left that place." 
Numbers25:1 The Israelites were staying in Shittim. The men began to have sex with the women from Moab. 
Numbers25:2 The women from Moab took Israelite men to watch them as they offered sacrifices to the gods of Moab. The Israelite men joined with the Moabite women to eat at their feasts. They also worshipped the gods of Moab. 
Numbers25:3 The Israelites joined the Moabite women to worship their god, Baal of Peor. So the Lord became very angry with them." 
Numbers25:4 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Take hold of all the leaders of these people. Hang them up during the day so that they die and people see them. Do what I tell you, so that I will no longer be angry against the Israelites.’" 
Numbers25:5 Moses told the officers of the Israelites, ‘Each of you, kill the men who have worshipped the god, Baal of Peor.’" 
Numbers25:6 Moses and all the people were at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. They were weeping. While they were there, an Israelite man brought a Midianite woman into his tent. Moses and all the people could see them." 
Numbers25:7 Phinehas, the son of Eleazar and grandson of Aaron the priest, saw what happened. So he stood up among all the people and he took a spear in his hand." 
Numbers25:8 He went into the man's tent. He pushed the spear through the body of the man and the Midianite woman. When he did that, the bad disease that was killing the Israelites stopped." 
Numbers25:9 But 24,000 people had already died as a result of the disease." 
Numbers25:10 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers25:11 ‘I am no longer angry with the Israelites. That is because of what Phinehas, the son of Eleazar and grandson of Aaron the priest, did. He did not want the people to worship any god except me. Because of him, I did not kill all the Israelites." 
Numbers25:12 So you must tell him that I have promised that my peace will be with him. 
Numbers25:13 That promise will be for him and for his descendants after him. They will always be priests. That is because he did not want the people to worship any god except me. He has made the Israelites clean from their sin.’ 
Numbers25:14 The name of the man that Phinehas killed with the Midianite woman was Zimri. He was the son of Salu. Salu was the leader of a clan from the tribe of Simeon. 
Numbers25:15 The name of the Midianite woman was Cozbi. She was the daughter of Zur, a leader of a Midianite clan." 
Numbers25:16 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers25:17 ‘Attack the Midianites and destroy them. 
Numbers25:18 They have deceived you and they have become your enemies. They took some of you to worship their god, Baal of Peor. They used Cozbi to make you do a wrong thing, and she was the daughter of a Midianite leader. Phinehas killed her on the day when the bad disease killed many Israelites at Mount Peor.’" 
Numbers26:1 When the bad disease stopped killing people, the Lord spoke to Moses and to Eleazar, the son of Aaron." 
Numbers26:2 He said, ‘Count all the Israelites, clan by clan. Count all the men who are 20 years old or older. Count only those men who can fight in the army.’" 
Numbers26:3 So Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke to the Israelites. Their camp was on the flat ground of Moab, beside the Jordan River. Jericho was on the other side of the river. They said," 
Numbers26:4 ‘Count all the men who are 20 years old or older. The Lord has told Moses that we must do that.’ These are the names of the Israelites who came out of Egypt: 
Numbers26:5 The tribe of Reuben, Jacob's firstborn son, had these clans: Hanoch's family, Pallu's family," 
Numbers26:6 Hezron's family and Carmi's family. 
Numbers26:7 There were 43,730 men in the clans of the tribe of Reuben." 
Numbers26:8 Pallu's descendant was Eliab. 
Numbers26:9 Eliab's descendants were Nemuel, Dathan and Abiram. Dathan and Abiram were the men who turned against Moses and Aaron. Korah was their leader and they all turned against the Lord." 
Numbers26:10 A hole opened in the ground. Korah, Dathan, Abiram and their families fell into the hole and they died. And fire killed 250 other men. So they became a sign to warn the other Israelites." 
Numbers26:11 But Korah's clan did not all die at that time. 
Numbers26:12 The tribe of Simeon had these clans: Nemuel's family, Jamin's family, Jakin's family," 
Numbers26:13 Zerah's family and Shaul's family. 
Numbers26:14 There were 22,200 men in the clans of the tribe of Simeon." 
Numbers26:15 The tribe of Gad had these clans: Zephon's family, Haggi's family, Shuni's family," 
Numbers26:16 Ozni's family, Eri's family," 
Numbers26:17 Arod's family and Areli's family. 
Numbers26:18 There were 40,500 men in the clans of the tribe of Gad." 
Numbers26:19 The sons of Judah were Er and Onan, but Er and Onan died in Canaan." 
Numbers26:20 The tribe of Judah had these clans: Shelah's family, Perez's family, Zerah's family," 
Numbers26:21 Hezron's family and Hamul's family. 
Numbers26:22 There were 76,500 men in the clans of the tribe of Judah." 
Numbers26:23 The tribe of Issachar had these clans: Tola's family, Puah's family," 
Numbers26:24 Jashub's family and Shimron's family. 
Numbers26:25 There were 64,300 men in the clans of the tribe of Issachar." 
Numbers26:26 The tribe of Zebulun had these clans: Sered's family, Elon's family and Jahleel's family." 
Numbers26:27 There were 60,500 men in the clans of the tribe of Zebulun." 
Numbers26:28 The descendants of Joseph became two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim." 
Numbers26:29 The tribe of Manasseh had these clans: Makir's family and Gilead's family. Makir was Gilead's father. 
Numbers26:30 These clans came from Gilead's descendants: Iezer's family, Helek's family," 
Numbers26:31 Asriel's family, Shechem's family," 
Numbers26:32 Shemida's family and Hepher's family. 
Numbers26:33 Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, had no sons, but only daughters. The names of Zelophehad's daughters were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah." 
Numbers26:34 There were 52,700 men in the clans of the tribe of Manasseh." 
Numbers26:35 The tribe of Ephraim had these clans: Shuthelah's family, Becher's family, and Tahan's family." 
Numbers26:36 Eran's family was a clan from the descendants of Shuthelah. 
Numbers26:37 There were 32,500 men in the clans of the tribe of Ephraim. The clans of the tribes of Manasseh and Ephraim were all descendants of Joseph." 
Numbers26:38 The tribe of Benjamin had these clans: Bela's family, Ashbel's family, Ahiram's family," 
Numbers26:39 Shupham's family and Hupham's family. 
Numbers26:40 Ard's family and Naaman's family were clans from Bela's descendants. 
Numbers26:41 There were 45,600 men in the clans of the tribe of Benjamin." 
Numbers26:42 The tribe of Dan had this clan: Shuham's family. 
Numbers26:43 There were 64,400 men in Shuham's clan." 
Numbers26:44 The tribe of Asher had these clans: Imnah's family, Ishvi's family and Beriah's family." 
Numbers26:45 Heber's family and Malkiel's family were clans from Beriah's descendants. 
Numbers26:46 There was also a daughter of Asher who was called Serah. 
Numbers26:47 There were 53,400 men in the clans of the tribe of Asher." 
Numbers26:48 The tribe of Naphtali had these clans: Jahzeel's family, Guni's family," 
Numbers26:49 Jezer's family and Shillem's family. 
Numbers26:50 There were 45,400 men in the clans of the tribe of Naphtali." 
Numbers26:51 There were 601,730 men on the list of all the Israelites." 
Numbers26:52 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers26:53 ‘I will give part of the land to each tribe. You need to know the number of names that you have on your list for each tribe. 
Numbers26:54 The big tribes will receive a big piece of land. The small tribes will receive a smaller piece of land. 
Numbers26:55 You must use lots to decide the land that each tribe receives. 
Numbers26:56 The larger clans must have more land than the smaller clans.’ 
Numbers26:57 The Levites included these clans: Gershon's family, Kohath's family and Merari's family." 
Numbers26:58 It also included these clans: Libni's family, Hebron's family, Mahli's family, Mushi's family and Korah's family. Kohath was the father of Amram." 
Numbers26:59 The name of Amram's wife was Jochebed. She was a descendant of Levi, and she was born in Egypt. Amram and Jochebed were the parents of Moses and Aaron, and their sister Miriam." 
Numbers26:60 Aaron was the father of Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
Numbers26:61 Nadab and Abihu died when they offered strange fire to the Lord. 
Numbers26:62 There were 23,000 male Levites who were more than one month old. Moses did not include them on the list of the other Israelite tribes. They did not receive any land as the other tribes did." 
Numbers26:63 Those are the men that Moses and Eleazar the priest counted. They counted them on the flat ground in Moab beside the Jordan River. Jericho was on the other side of the river. 
Numbers26:64 None of the men that Moses and Aaron had counted in the Sinai Desert were still alive. 
Numbers26:65 The Lord had said about those men, ‘They will certainly die in the desert.’ Among all those men, only Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun were still alive." 
Numbers26:65 The Lord had said about those men, ‘They will certainly die in the desert.’ Among all those men, only Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun were still alive." 
Numbers27:1 Then the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, came to speak to Moses. Hepher was the son of Gilead, the son of Makir, the son of Manasseh, the son of Joseph. So Zelophehad belonged to the tribe of Manasseh. His daughters were called Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah." 
Numbers27:2 Moses, Eleazar the priest and all the leaders of the people were standing at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. Zelophehad's daughters said to them," 
Numbers27:3 ‘Our father died in the desert. But he was not in Korah's group of men who came together to speak against the Lord. He died in the desert because of his own sin, and he did not have any sons." 
Numbers27:4 We are his daughters, so please give us some land along with our father's male relatives. Then people will not forget our father's family name.’" 
Numbers27:5 Moses asked the Lord about this. 
Numbers27:6 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers27:7 ‘What the daughters of Zelophehad said is right. You must give them some of the land that their father's family will receive. Give them the land that their father would have received. 
Numbers27:8 Tell the Israelites this: “Sometimes a man only has daughters. When he dies, his daughters must receive what belongs to their family." 
Numbers27:9 If he does not have any sons or daughters, you must give his family's land to his brothers." 
Numbers27:10 If he does not have any brothers, you must give his land to his father's brothers." 
Numbers27:11 Sometimes the man's father may have no brothers. If that happens, you must give his land to another person in his family. This is a rule for all the people. The Lord gave this command to Moses.” ’" 
Numbers27:12 The Lord said to Moses, ‘Go up to the top of the Abiram mountains. From there, look at the land that I am giving to the Israelites." 
Numbers27:13 After that, you will die, just as your brother Aaron also died." 
Numbers27:14 In the Zin Desert, when the people turned against me, you did not obey my command. That happened when you hit the rock to get water at Meribah Kadesh. You did not show the people that I was holy, so now you will not go into the land of Canaan.’" 
Numbers27:15 Moses said to the Lord," 
Numbers27:16 ‘You are the Lord, the God of the spirits of all people. Please choose another man to be leader over all the people." 
Numbers27:17 He will lead them when they go out to fight, and he will bring them back safely. Then the Lord 's people will not be like sheep who have no shepherd.’" 
Numbers27:18 The Lord replied to Moses, ‘Choose Joshua, the son of Nun. My Spirit is in him to help him lead well. Put your hand on him to take your place as leader." 
Numbers27:18 The Lord replied to Moses, ‘Choose Joshua, the son of Nun. My Spirit is in him to help him lead well. Put your hand on him to take your place as leader." 
Numbers27:19 He must stand in front of Eleazar the priest and in front of all the Israelites. Let all the people see that he is the new leader that I have chosen. 
Numbers27:20 Tell the people that they must obey him, because he now has your authority." 
Numbers27:21 Eleazar the priest will use the Urim and Thummim to find out from me what Joshua should do. Then Joshua can tell the people when to go out to fight, and he can lead them safely back again. He will tell all the Israelite people what they must do.’" 
Numbers27:21 Eleazar the priest will use the Urim and Thummim to find out from me what Joshua should do. Then Joshua can tell the people when to go out to fight, and he can lead them safely back again. He will tell all the Israelite people what they must do.’" 
Numbers27:22 Moses did as the Lord told him. He brought Joshua to stand in front of Eleazar the priest and all the people. 
Numbers27:22 Moses did as the Lord told him. He brought Joshua to stand in front of Eleazar the priest and all the people. 
Numbers27:23 He put his hands on Joshua to show that he would be the new leader. Moses gave his authority to Joshua, as the Lord had told him to do." 
Numbers27:23 He put his hands on Joshua to show that he would be the new leader. Moses gave his authority to Joshua, as the Lord had told him to do." 
Numbers28:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers28:2 ‘Tell the Israelites that they must give their gifts to God at the proper time. The smell of the gifts when they burn will make him happy. 
Numbers28:3 You must say to them, “This is the offering by fire that you must offer to the Lord: It must be two male lambs that are one year old. They must not have anything wrong with them. That is the burnt offering for every day." 
Numbers28:4 You must give one lamb in the morning and one lamb in the evening. 
Numbers28:5 With the lambs, you must also offer to God one kilogram of flour that you have mixed with one litre of good olive oil." 
Numbers28:6 It is a regular burnt offering that God told you about. He told you about it on Mount Sinai. It is an offering by fire to the Lord. The smell as it burns makes the Lord happy. 
Numbers28:7 The drink offering with it will be one litre of wine for each lamb. In the holy place, you must pour out a drink offering of the best wine to the Lord." 
Numbers28:8 You must offer the other lamb when it begins to get dark. Offer it with a grain offering and a drink offering like the offerings in the morning. You must give it as an offering by fire. The smell of the smoke from these sacrifices will make the Lord happy. 
Numbers28:9 Then on the Sabbath day, you must offer two male lambs that are one year old. They must not have anything wrong with them. And you must offer 2 kilograms of good flour. Mix that with oil as a grain offering. And you must give the proper drink offering with it." 
Numbers28:10 This is the burnt offering for every Sabbath. But you must also give the regular burnt offering with its proper drink offering. 
Numbers28:11 Also, on the first day of every month, you must give a burnt offering to the Lord. It must be two young bulls, one male sheep and seven male lambs. The lambs must be one year old and they must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers28:12 With each bull and with the male sheep, you must give a grain offering. Mix together 3 kilograms of the best flour with olive oil. Offer it to me with each bull. Mix together 2 kilograms of the best flour with olive oil. Offer it to me with the male sheep." 
Numbers28:13 And with each lamb you must give a grain offering. Mix together 1 kilogram of the best flour with olive oil. Offer it to me with each male lamb as a burnt offering to the Lord. The smell of the smoke from these sacrifices will make the Lord happy. 
Numbers28:14 There must also be drink offerings with these sacrifices. The offering must be 2 litres of wine for a bull. It must be 1½ litres for the male sheep and 1 litre for a lamb. That is the burnt offering of each month for every month of the year. 
Numbers28:15 Also, you must offer one male goat as a sin offering to the Lord. You must offer it with the proper drink offering. But you must still offer the regular burnt offering." 
Numbers28:16 On the 14th day of the first month, you must eat the Lord 's Passover meal." 
Numbers28:17 Day 15 is the start of a week when you must eat the flat bread. You must not put any yeast in the bread. You must do that for seven days. 
Numbers28:18 The first day will be a holy day and all the people must meet together. You must not work at your jobs on that day. 
Numbers28:19 And you must give an offering by fire, a burnt offering to the Lord. The offering must be two young bulls, one male sheep and seven male lambs that are one year old. But these animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers28:20 Offer the proper grain offering with each animal. Mix together 3 kilograms of the best flour and olive oil. Offer it to me with each bull. With the male sheep, offer 2 kilograms of the best flour with oil." 
Numbers28:21 With each of the seven lambs, you must offer one kilogram of flour that you have mixed with oil." 
Numbers28:22 You must also give one male goat as a sin offering. That is to make things right with God for you. 
Numbers28:23 But you must still give the regular burnt offering in the morning. 
Numbers28:24 You must offer those gifts every day for seven days. They are the food of an offering by fire. The smell of them as they burn will make the Lord happy. But you must still give the regular burnt offering with the proper drink offering. 
Numbers28:25 And the seventh day must be a holy day and all the people must meet together. You must not work at your jobs on that day. 
Numbers28:26 The day when you offer to the Lord the first part of the harvest must also be a holy day. That is also the day when you give to the Lord an offering of new grain. That is the Festival of Weeks. All the people must meet together. You must not work at your jobs on that day. 
Numbers28:27 And you must give a burnt offering to the Lord. The offering must be two young bulls, one male sheep and seven male lambs that are one year old. The smell of the smoke from these sacrifices will make the Lord happy." 
Numbers28:28 Mix together 3 kilograms of the best flour and olive oil. Offer that with each bull. With the male sheep, offer 2 kilograms of flour with oil." 
Numbers28:29 With each of the seven lambs, you must offer one kilogram of flour that you have mixed with oil." 
Numbers28:30 You must also offer one male goat to remove your sins. 
Numbers28:31 You must still give the regular burnt offering with the proper grain offering. You must give them with the proper drink offerings. The animals must not have anything wrong with them. 
Numbers29:1 On the first day of the seventh month, all the people must come together for a holy meeting. You must not work at your jobs. It is a day for you to make music with your trumpets." 
Numbers29:2 And you must offer a burnt offering to the Lord. You must give one young bull and one male sheep. Also offer seven lambs that are one year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them. The smell of the smoke from these sacrifices will cause the Lord to be happy. 
Numbers29:3 Offer the proper grain offering to me with each animal. Mix together three kilograms of the best flour with olive oil. Offer it to me with the young bull. Offer two kilograms of flour with oil with the male sheep. 
Numbers29:4 Offer one kilogram of flour with each lamb. 
Numbers29:5 Also offer one male goat as a sin offering, so that I will forgive the people's sins." 
Numbers29:6 Offer these sacrifices as well as the burnt offering, grain offerings and drink offerings that you give each month and each day. The smell of the smoke from these sacrifices will cause the Lord to be happy." 
Numbers29:7 On the tenth day of the seventh month, you must come together for a holy meeting. During that day, you must make yourselves humble. And you must not do any work." 
Numbers29:8 You must offer a burnt offering to the Lord. The smell of the smoke will make the Lord happy. Offer one young bull, one male sheep and seven male lambs that are one year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers29:9 Offer to me the proper grain offering with each animal. Mix together three kilograms of the best flour with olive oil. Offer it to me with the young bull. Offer two kilograms of flour with oil with the male sheep. 
Numbers29:10 Offer one kilogram of flour with oil with each lamb. 
Numbers29:11 Also offer one male goat as a sin offering. Give these gifts as well as the burnt offering, the grain offerings and the drink offering s that you give each day and each month." 
Numbers29:12 On the 15th day of the seventh month, you must come together for a holy meeting. You must not work at your jobs. You must have a feast to the Lord for seven days." 
Numbers29:13 Give an offering by fire as a smell to make the Lord happy. Give a burnt offering of 13 young bulls, 2 male sheep and 14 lambs that are one year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers29:14 With each of the 13 bulls give a grain offering. Mix together three kilograms of the best flour with olive oil. Offer it to me with each bull. With each male sheep, offer two kilograms of flour with oil." 
Numbers29:15 Offer one kilogram of flour that you have mixed with oil with each male lamb. 
Numbers29:16 Also offer one male goat as a sin offering. Offer it with the regular burnt offering, with the proper grain offering and the drink offering." 
Numbers29:17 On the second day, give 12 young bulls, 2 male sheep and 14 lambs that are one year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers29:18 With the bulls, male sheep and lambs, give the proper grain offerings and drink offerings for each animal." 
Numbers29:19 Include one male goat as a sin offering. Sacrifice it with the regular burnt offering with the proper grain offering and their drink offerings. 
Numbers29:20 On the third day, give 11 bulls, 2 male sheep and 14 male lambs that are a year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers29:21 With the bulls, male sheep and lambs, give the proper grain offerings and drink offerings for each animal." 
Numbers29:22 Include one male goat as a sin offering. Sacrifice it with the regular burnt offering with the proper grain offering and the drink offering. 
Numbers29:23 On the fourth day give 10 bulls, 2 male sheep and 14 male lambs that are a year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers29:24 With the bulls, male sheep and lambs, give the proper grain offerings and drink offerings for each animal." 
Numbers29:25 Include one male goat as a sin offering. Sacrifice it with the regular burnt offering with the proper grain offering and the drink offering. 
Numbers29:26 On the fifth day give 9 bulls, 2 male sheep and 14 male lambs that are a year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers29:27 With the bulls, male sheep and lambs, give the proper grain offerings and drink offerings for each animal." 
Numbers29:28 Include one male goat as a sin offering. Sacrifice it with the regular burnt offering with the proper grain offering and the drink offering. 
Numbers29:29 On the sixth day give 8 bulls, 2 male sheep and 14 male lambs that are a year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers29:30 With the bulls, male sheep and lambs, give the proper grain offerings and drink offerings for each animal." 
Numbers29:31 Include one male goat as a sin offering. Sacrifice it with the regular burnt offering with the proper grain offering and the drink offering. 
Numbers29:32 On the seventh day give 7 bulls, 2 male sheep and 14 male lambs that are a year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers29:33 With the bulls, male sheep and lambs, give the proper grain offerings and drink offerings for each animal." 
Numbers29:34 Include one male goat as a sin offering. Sacrifice it with the regular burnt offering with the proper grain offering and the drink offering. 
Numbers29:35 On the eighth day, all the people must come together for a holy meeting. You must not work at your jobs." 
Numbers29:36 Give an offering by fire as a smell to make the Lord happy. Give a burnt offering of one bull, one male sheep and seven male lambs that are a year old. The animals must not have anything wrong with them." 
Numbers29:37 With the bull, the male sheep and the lambs, give the proper grain offerings and drink offerings for each animal." 
Numbers29:38 Include one male goat as a sin offering. Sacrifice it with the regular burnt offering with the proper grain offering and the drink offering. 
Numbers29:39 You must offer those gifts to the Lord at the times of the feasts. You must do that even if you have given your usual burnt offering, grain offerings, drink offerings or friendship offerings. And you must do it even if you have given other offerings. You might have given those other offerings because you wanted to give them. Or you might have given them because you had promised to give them.” ’" 
Numbers29:40 Moses told the Israelites everything that the Lord had said to him. 
Numbers30:1 Moses said to the leaders of the Israelite tribes: ‘The Lord commands this: 
Numbers30:2 If a man promises to the Lord that he will do something, he must do everything that he has promised." 
Numbers30:3 A young woman who still lives in her father's house might make a promise to the Lord. 
Numbers30:4 If her father hears about her promise and he does not say anything, she must do everything that she has promised." 
Numbers30:5 But her father may refuse to let her do it. Then she does not have to do what she promised to do. The Lord will understand why she does not do it. 
Numbers30:6 But a young woman like that might make a promise to God and then marry a husband. She might have promised something when she had not thought carefully about it. 
Numbers30:7 After she marries, if her husband hears about it but he does not stop her, she must do what she promised." 
Numbers30:8 But her husband may say that he refuses to let her do it. He must say that on the day when he first hears about it. Then the woman does not have to do what she promised to do. The Lord will forgive her. 
Numbers30:9 If a woman no longer has a husband, she must do whatever she has promised to the Lord. Maybe she is a widow, or she has become separate from her husband." 
Numbers30:10 A woman who is living with her husband may make a promise to the Lord. 
Numbers30:11 If her husband hears about it but he does not say anything, she must do everything that she has promised." 
Numbers30:12 But her husband may say clearly that she must not do it. Then she must obey him. The Lord will understand why she does not do it. 
Numbers30:13 The husband may let his wife do what she promised to do, or he may refuse." 
Numbers30:14 If the husband does not say anything for many days about the promise, the woman must do what she promised." 
Numbers30:15 The husband may wait for many days after he hears about his wife's promise. If he then refuses to let her do what she promised, he will be guilty. God will punish him instead of his wife.’" 
Numbers30:16 Those are the rules that the Lord gave to Moses. They say what must happen when husbands, wives or young women who still live at home make a promise to the Lord." 
Numbers31:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers31:2 ‘You must punish the Midianites because they caused the Israelites to worship idols. After you have done that, you will die.’" 
Numbers31:3 Moses said to the people, ‘Choose some men to go and fight against the Midianites. Give them weapons to punish the Midianites as the Lord wants." 
Numbers31:4 Choose 1,000 men from each Israelite tribe to go and fight.’" 
Numbers31:5 They did that. There were 12,000 men ready with weapons to fight the battle." 
Numbers31:6 Moses sent those men out to fight. There were 1,000 men from each tribe. Phinehas, the son of Eleazar the priest, went with them. Phinehas took with him the holy things from the tabernacle. He also took the trumpets to make sounds for the battle." 
Numbers31:7 They attacked the Midianites as the Lord had told them. They killed all the men. 
Numbers31:8 That included the five kings of Midian: Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur and Reba. They also killed Balaam, the son of Beor, with a sword." 
Numbers31:9 Israel's men took hold of the women and children of Midian. They took their animals and everything that was valuable. 
Numbers31:10 They burned all their towns and their camps. 
Numbers31:11 They took for themselves the people, the animals and everything that was valuable." 
Numbers31:12 They took all the prisoners and the things that they had taken to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest. They brought them to the camp of the Israelites. That was on the flat ground in Moab beside the Jordan River. Jericho was on the other side of the river." 
Numbers31:13 Moses, Eleazar and the leaders of the Israelites went to meet them outside the camp." 
Numbers31:14 Moses was angry with the leaders and the officers of the army who had come back from the battle against the Midianites. 
Numbers31:15 Moses said to them, ‘Why have you let all the women live?" 
Numbers31:16 You should not have done that. These women caused the Israelites to turn against the Lord. They did what Balaam said to them at Peor. As a result, a bad disease killed many of the Lord 's people." 
Numbers31:17 Because of that, kill all the boys, and kill every woman who has had sex with a man." 
Numbers31:18 But as for the girls who have not had sex with a man, you may keep them for yourselves.’" 
Numbers31:19 Moses said, ‘Any soldier who has killed someone, or who has touched a dead body is unclean. He must stay outside the camp for seven days. On the third day and on the seventh day, you must wash yourselves to become clean. You must do the same thing to your Midianite prisoners." 
Numbers31:20 You must also make these things clean: any clothes or anything made from leather, wool or wood.’" 
Numbers31:21 Eleazar the priest said to the soldiers, ‘This is the rule that the Lord told Moses:" 
Numbers31:22 You must put all the gold, the silver, the bronze, the iron and other metals in a fire." 
Numbers31:23 Put in the fire anything that the fire will not destroy. The fire will make those things clean. But you must also wash them with water. As for anything that the fire would destroy, wash them with water to make them clean." 
Numbers31:24 On the seventh day, you must wash your clothes. After that you will be clean again. Then you can come into the camp.’" 
Numbers31:25 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers31:26 ‘You and Eleazar the priest, and the leaders of the family clans must count all the people and animals that you took in the battle." 
Numbers31:27 Give one half of all those things to the soldiers who went to fight the war against the Midianites. Give the other half to the rest of the people. 
Numbers31:28 From the half which belongs to the soldiers, keep one part out of every 500. Do that with the Midianite prisoners, the cows, the donkeys and the sheep. Those parts will be for the Lord." 
Numbers31:29 Give those to Eleazar the priest. He will offer them to the Lord. 
Numbers31:30 From the half that belongs to the people, keep one part out of every 50. Do that with the Midianite prisoners, the cows, the donkeys and the sheep. Those parts will be for the Levites who take care of the Lord 's special tent.’" 
Numbers31:31 Moses and Eleazar did as the Lord said. 
Numbers31:32 The soldiers had brought from the battle: 675,000 sheep," 
Numbers31:33 72,000 cows," 
Numbers31:34 61,000 donkeys" 
Numbers31:35 and 32,000 young women who had not had sex with a man." 
Numbers31:36 The soldiers' half included 337,500 sheep." 
Numbers31:37 So there were 675 sheep for the Lord. 
Numbers31:38 The soldiers' half also included 36,000 cows. So there were 72 cows for the Lord." 
Numbers31:39 The soldiers' half also included 30,500 donkeys. So there were 61 donkeys for the Lord." 
Numbers31:40 The soldiers' half also included 16,000 people. So there were 32 people for the Lord." 
Numbers31:41 Moses gave the part that was for the Lord to Eleazar, the priest. He would offer these to the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Numbers31:42 Moses made the half for the Israelite people separate from the half that was for the soldiers. 
Numbers31:43 The people's half included 337,500 sheep," 
Numbers31:44 36,000 cows," 
Numbers31:45 30,500 donkeys" 
Numbers31:46 and 16,000 people." 
Numbers31:47 From the Israelites' half, Moses took one part out of every 50. He gave those to the Levites who took care of the Lord 's special tent. That was what the Lord had commanded Moses to do." 
Numbers31:48 Then the leaders and the officers of the army went to Moses. 
Numbers31:49 They said to him: ‘We have counted the soldiers who went to fight against the Midianites. They have all come back safely. 
Numbers31:50 So we have brought a gift to offer to the Lord. We have brought gold rings, ear-rings, necklaces and other gold things that people wear. They are gifts to remove our sins so that the Lord will forgive us.’" 
Numbers31:51 Moses and Eleazar took all the gold things that the soldiers' officers and leaders brought to them. 
Numbers31:52 They weighed all the gold that was offered to the Lord. The weight was 16,750 shekels." 
Numbers31:53 The soldiers had also taken gold things from the enemy for themselves. 
Numbers31:54 Moses and Eleazar took the gold gifts from the soldiers' officers and leaders into the Tent of Meeting. It would help the Israelites to remember how the Lord had helped them. 
Numbers32:1 The people in the tribes of Reuben and Gad had very many animals. They saw that the land in Jazer and Gilead was good for their animals. 
Numbers32:2 They went to speak to Moses, Eleazar and the other leaders of the Israelites." 
Numbers32:3 They said, ‘The land at Ataroth, Dibon, Jazer, Nimrah, Heshbon, Elealeh, Sebam, Nebo and Beon" 
Numbers32:4 is good for animals. The Lord has given all this land to us Israelites. We have very many animals," 
Numbers32:5 so please let us have this land for our animals. Let us have this land to live on, instead of land on the other side of the Jordan River.’" 
Numbers32:6 Moses said to the men of Reuben and Gad, ‘The other Israelite tribes will go across the river to fight against the people who live there. It is not fair that you should stay here!" 
Numbers32:7 If you stay here, the rest of the Israelites may not want to go across the river. Do not stop them going into the land that the Lord has given to them!" 
Numbers32:8 Your fathers did the same thing when I sent them from Kadesh-Barnea to look at the land of Canaan. 
Numbers32:9 They went to Eshcol Valley and they saw the land. But they told the Israelites that it was not a good idea to go into Canaan. So the people did not go into the land that the Lord had given to them. 
Numbers32:10 As a result, the Lord was very angry with them." 
Numbers32:11 He promised, “None of the men that I brought out from Egypt will go into the land. It is the land that I promised to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. But they have not trusted me completely. So any man who is 20 years old or older will not go into this land." 
Numbers32:12 Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun are the only men who will go into the land. They are the only men who trusted me completely.”" 
Numbers32:12 Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun are the only men who will go into the land. They are the only men who trusted me completely.”" 
Numbers32:13 At that time, the Lord was angry with all the Israelites. He caused them to travel in the desert for 40 years. After that, all the men who had turned against him were dead.’" 
Numbers32:14 Moses continued to say, ‘Now you are turning against God, as your fathers did. You are as bad as them! You will cause the Lord to be even more angry with the Israelites." 
Numbers32:15 If you turn against him, he will leave them here in the desert. If all the Israelite people die, it will be because of you!’" 
Numbers32:16 The men of Reuben and Gad said to Moses, ‘Let us build strong houses here for our women and our children. We will also build places to keep our animals safe." 
Numbers32:17 Then we will be ready to join the other tribes and we will lead them to the battle. While we are fighting, our families will be safe here. The people who live in this land will not be able to hurt them." 
Numbers32:18 We will not return to our homes here until all the Israelite tribes receive their own part of the land. 
Numbers32:19 We will not receive any of the land on the other side of the Jordan River. Our part of the land will be here, on the east side of the river.’" 
Numbers32:20 Moses said to the men, ‘You must really do as you have said. You must take your weapons and go to fight for the Lord." 
Numbers32:21 Your men must go across the Jordan River with the other tribes. You must continue to fight until we have won against all our enemies. 
Numbers32:22 When the Lord has power over the whole land, then you can return here. You will have done everything that the Lord wants you to do. You will have helped the whole Israelite nation in the way that you should. The Lord will give to you this land on the east side of the Jordan River." 
Numbers32:23 But if you do not do what you have promised, that will be a sin against the Lord. And be sure that God will punish you for your sin." 
Numbers32:24 So build towns for your families, and build safe places for your animals. But then do everything that you have promised to do.’" 
Numbers32:25 The men in the tribes of Gad and Reuben said to Moses, ‘Yes sir, we will do what you have said." 
Numbers32:26 Our women, children and our animals will stay here in Gilead's towns." 
Numbers32:27 But all our men who are able to fight will go across the river. We will fight on behalf of the Lord, as you have said that we should do.’" 
Numbers32:28 Moses gave this message to Eleazar the priest, to Joshua the son of Nun and to the leaders of the family clans." 
Numbers32:28 Moses gave this message to Eleazar the priest, to Joshua the son of Nun and to the leaders of the family clans." 
Numbers32:29 He said to them, ‘The men in Reuben's tribe and in Gad's tribe must go across the Jordan River to fight with you on behalf of the Lord. If they do that, you must give them the land here in Gilead. When you have won power over the whole land, then this land will belong to them." 
Numbers32:30 If they refuse to fight together with the other tribes, they will have no land here. They must have part of the land in Canaan, like the other tribes.’" 
Numbers32:31 The men in the tribes of Reuben and Gad said, ‘We will do what the Lord has told us to do." 
Numbers32:32 We will take our weapons and we will go across the Jordan River to fight on behalf of the Lord in Canaan. But then we will live in our land here on this side of the river.’ 
Numbers32:33 So Moses gave them all the kingdom of Sihon, king of the Amorites and Og, the king of Bashan. He gave them the land with its towns and all the land round the towns. He gave it to the descendants of Gad and of Reuben and half of the tribe of Joseph's son Manasseh." 
Numbers32:34 The men in the tribe of Gad built up again Dibon, Ataroth and Aroer." 
Numbers32:35 They also built up again Atroth-Shophan, Jazer, Jogbehah," 
Numbers32:36 Beth-Nimrah and Beth-Haran. They built houses for their families and their animals. 
Numbers32:37 The men in the tribe of Reuben built up again Heshbon, Elealeh, Kiriathaim," 
Numbers32:38 Nebo, Baal-Meon and Sibmah. They gave new names to the cities that they built up again." 
Numbers32:39 The descendants of Makir, the son of Manasseh, attacked Gilead. They sent away the people who lived there." 
Numbers32:40 So Moses gave Gilead to the descendants of Makir who was the son of Manasseh. And they lived there. 
Numbers32:41 Jair, who was a descendant of Manasseh, attacked some villages. He got power over them and he called them Havvoth-Jair." 
Numbers32:42 Nobah attacked Kenath and the villages round it. He called it Nobah, like his own name." 
Numbers33:1 This is the way that the Israelites travelled, after Moses and Aaron led them out of Egypt. They travelled in their family groups." 
Numbers33:2 The Lord told Moses that he should write about the journey. These are the places where they made their camps on the way: 
Numbers33:3 They left Rameses in Egypt on the 15th day of the first month. That was the day after the Passover meal. The Israelites marched out bravely, while all the Egyptian people watched them." 
Numbers33:4 As they left, the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn sons, because the Lord had killed them. The Lord had shown his power over the Egyptians' gods." 
Numbers33:5 They left Rameses and they travelled to Succoth. They made their camp there. 
Numbers33:6 They travelled from Succoth to Etham. They made their camp there, on the edge of the desert." 
Numbers33:7 They travelled from Etham and they turned round to go to Pi-Hahiroth, which is east of Baal-Zephon. They made their camp near Migdol." 
Numbers33:8 They travelled from Pi-Hahiroth. They went through the middle of the sea and then went into the desert. They travelled for three days and then they made their camp at Marah, in the Etham Desert." 
Numbers33:9 They travelled from Marah to Elim. At Elim, there were 12 wells of water and 70 palm trees. They made their camp there." 
Numbers33:10 They travelled from Elim and they made their camp at the side of the Red Sea. 
Numbers33:11 They travelled from the Red Sea. And they made their camp in the Sin Desert. 
Numbers33:12 They travelled from the Sin Desert and they made their camp at Dophkah. 
Numbers33:13 They travelled from Dophkah and they made their camp at Alush. 
Numbers33:14 They travelled from Alush and they made their camp at Rephidim. There was no water there for the people to drink. 
Numbers33:15 They travelled from Rephidim and they made their camp in the Sinai Desert. 
Numbers33:16 They travelled from the Sinai Desert and they made their camp at Kibroth-Hattaavah. 
Numbers33:17 They travelled from Kibroth-Hattaavah and they made their camp at Hazeroth. 
Numbers33:18 They travelled from Hazeroth and they made their camp at Rithmah. 
Numbers33:19 They travelled from Rithmah and they made their camp at Rimmon-Perez. 
Numbers33:20 They travelled from Rimmon-Perez and they made their camp at Libnah. 
Numbers33:21 They travelled from Libnah and they made their camp at Rissah. 
Numbers33:22 They travelled from Rissah and they made their camp at Kehelathah. 
Numbers33:23 They travelled from Kehelathah and they made their camp at Mount Shepher. 
Numbers33:24 They travelled from Mount Shepher and they made their camp at Haradah. 
Numbers33:25 They travelled from Haradah and they made their camp at Makheloth. 
Numbers33:26 They travelled from Makheloth and they made their camp at Tahath. 
Numbers33:27 They travelled from Tahath and they made their camp at Terah. 
Numbers33:28 They travelled from Terah and they made their camp at Mithcah. 
Numbers33:29 They travelled from Mithcah and they made their camp at Hashmonah. 
Numbers33:30 They travelled from Hashmonah and they made their camp at Moseroth. 
Numbers33:31 They travelled from Moseroth and they made their camp at Bene-Jaakan. 
Numbers33:32 They travelled from Bene-Jaakan and they made their camp at Hor-Haggidgad. 
Numbers33:33 They travelled from Hor-Haggidgad and they made their camp at Jotbathah. 
Numbers33:34 They travelled from Jotbathah and they made their camp at Abronah. 
Numbers33:35 They travelled from Abronah and they made their camp at Ezion-Geber. 
Numbers33:36 They travelled from Ezion-Geber and they made their camp at Kadesh in the Zin Desert. 
Numbers33:37 They travelled from Kadesh and they made their camp at Mount Hor. It is on the border of Edom land. 
Numbers33:38 The Lord told Aaron that he must go up Mount Hor. Aaron went up and he died there. That was in the 40th year after the Israelites had left Egypt. He died on the first day of the fifth month. 
Numbers33:39 Aaron was 123 years old when he died on Mount Hor. 
Numbers33:40 The king of Arad lived in the south part of the land of Canaan. People told him that the Israelites were coming. 
Numbers33:41 The Israelites travelled from Mount Hor and they made their camp at Zalmonah. 
Numbers33:42 They travelled from Zalmonah and they made their camp at Punon. 
Numbers33:43 They travelled from Punon and they made their camp at Oboth. 
Numbers33:44 They travelled from Oboth and they made their camp at Iye-Abarim, on the border of Moab land." 
Numbers33:45 They travelled from Iye-Abarim and they made their camp at Dibon-Gad. 
Numbers33:46 They travelled from Dibon-Gad and they made their camp at Almon-Diblathaim. 
Numbers33:47 They travelled from Almon-Diblathaim and they made their camp in the mountains of Abarim, near Nebo." 
Numbers33:48 They travelled from the mountains of Abarim and they made their camp in Moab beside the Jordan River. They were on the other side of the river from Jericho city. 
Numbers33:49 They made their camp on the flat ground beside the river. Their tents covered the ground from Beth-Jeshimoth to Abel-Shittim. 
Numbers33:50 Then the Lord spoke to Moses there in Moab beside the Jordan River. Jericho was on the other side of the river. The Lord said," 
Numbers33:51 ‘Say to the Israelites, “You will go across the Jordan River and you will go into the land of Canaan." 
Numbers33:52 Then you must chase out all the people who live in that land. You must destroy all their idols that are made from wood or stone. Also destroy the altars where they worship their false gods. 
Numbers33:53 I have given this land to you to live in. So you must win power over the people who live there now. 
Numbers33:54 You must use lots to choose how to give part of the land to each family. You must give more land to the larger clans and you must give less land to the smaller clans. The lots will decide which piece of land belongs to each family. Each of your ancestors' tribes will get its own part of the land. 
Numbers33:55 If any Canaanites remain in the land, they will cause the Israelites to suffer. So you must chase them all away." 
Numbers33:56 If you do not do that, I will punish you in the way that I wanted to punish them.” ’" 
Numbers34:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers34:2 ‘Tell the Israelites this: “These are the borders of Canaan, the land that will be yours to live in." 
Numbers34:3 The south edge will start at the Zin Desert and it will go along the border of Edom's land. It will continue to the east, and it will reach the south end of the Salt Sea." 
Numbers34:4 It will go south of the place called Scorpion Hill, and it will continue to Zin. Then it will go south of Kadesh-Barnea. It will go to Hazar-Addar and then across to Azmon." 
Numbers34:5 There the border will turn and it will go along the Stream of Egypt. It will continue as far as the Mediterranean Sea. 
Numbers34:6 The west border of your land will be the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. 
Numbers34:7 This will be the north border: From the Mediterranean Sea draw a line to Mount Hor. 
Numbers34:8 From Mount Hor the border will go to Lebo-Hamath. Then it will go to Zedad. 
Numbers34:9 It will continue to Ziphron and it will finish at Hazar-Enan. 
Numbers34:10 This will be the east border: Draw a line from Hazar-Enan to Shepham. 
Numbers34:11 Then the border will go from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain. It will go along the east shore of Lake Galilee." 
Numbers34:12 Then it will go along the Jordan River and it will finish at the Salt Sea. That will be your land, with its borders.” ’" 
Numbers34:13 Moses said to the Israelites, ‘That is the land for the Israelites to live in. You must use lots to give part of the land to each tribe. The Lord has told you to give it to the nine and a half tribes." 
Numbers34:14 That is because the tribes of Reuben and Gad, and half of Manasseh's tribe have their land already." 
Numbers34:15 Their land is on the east side of the Jordan River. It is on the other side of the river from Jericho city.’ 
Numbers34:16 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers34:17 ‘Joshua, the son of Nun, and Eleazar the priest will decide which parts of the land will belong to each family." 
Numbers34:17 ‘Joshua, the son of Nun, and Eleazar the priest will decide which parts of the land will belong to each family." 
Numbers34:18 One leader from each tribe must help them. 
Numbers34:19 These are the names of those leaders: Caleb the son of Jephunneh from the tribe of Judah. 
Numbers34:20 Shemuel the son of Ammihud from the tribe of Simeon. 
Numbers34:21 Elidad the son of Kislon from the tribe of Benjamin. 
Numbers34:22 Bukki the son of Jogli from the tribe of Dan. 
Numbers34:23 These will be the two leaders from the descendants of Joseph: Hanniel the son of Ephod from the tribe of Manasseh. 
Numbers34:24 Kemuel the son of Shiphtan from the tribe of Ephraim. 
Numbers34:25 Then there will be Elizaphan the son of Parnach from the tribe of Zebulun. 
Numbers34:26 Paltiel the son of Azzan from the tribe of Issachar. 
Numbers34:27 Ahihud the son of Shelomi from the tribe of Asher. 
Numbers34:28 Pedahel the son of Ammihud from the tribe of Naphtali.’ 
Numbers34:29 Those were the men that the Lord chose to decide about the land for the Israelite families. 
Numbers35:1 The Lord spoke to Moses in Moab, beside the Jordan River. Jericho was on the other side of the river." 
Numbers35:2 The Lord said, ‘Tell the people this. They must give some of their land to the Levites. Then the Levites can build towns to live in. They will also have the land round the towns for their animals." 
Numbers35:3 The Levites must have towns to live in and land for their cows and all their animals. 
Numbers35:4 The fields that you give to them for their animals must reach 500 metres from the walls of each town. 
Numbers35:5 You must also measure 1,000 metres outside the town on each side, the east side, the south side, the west side and the north side. So the town will be in the centre. Those fields of grass will belong to them for each of their towns." 
Numbers35:6 Six of the Levites towns must be safe places. If anyone kills another person, he can run there to be safe. The Levites must also have another 42 towns." 
Numbers35:7 In that way, the Levites will have 48 towns and land for their animals." 
Numbers35:8 Each of the Israelite tribes must give to the Levites towns from their own land. The larger tribes will give more towns. The smaller tribes will give fewer towns. That is because the larger tribes have received more land than the smaller tribes.’ 
Numbers35:9 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers35:10 ‘Tell the Israelites to do this when they go across the Jordan River and they go into Canaan. 
Numbers35:11 They must choose some towns to be safe places. If anyone kills another person but he did not mean to, he can run there to be safe." 
Numbers35:12 Those towns will be places where the killer can be safe from the dead person's relative. The killer will not die before the people in the town have judged him. 
Numbers35:13 You must choose six towns to be safe places. 
Numbers35:14 Three towns must be in Canaan and three towns must be on the other side of the Jordan River. 
Numbers35:15 Those six towns will be safe places for Israelites and for foreign people who live among them. Anyone who has killed another person may run to one of these towns and be safe there. But they will only be safe if they did not mean to kill the other person. 
Numbers35:16 Murderers are different. You must kill a murderer. Maybe someone hits another person with a heavy iron tool. If the person dies, the murderer must also die." 
Numbers35:17 Someone might hit another person with a big stone. If the person dies, the man is a murderer. He must die." 
Numbers35:18 A man might hit a person with a dangerous weapon made from wood. If the person dies, the man is a murderer. He must die." 
Numbers35:19 The dead person's relative himself must kill the murderer when he meets him. 
Numbers35:20 These are other examples of murder: A man might push another person hard because he hates him. A man might throw something at another person to hurt him. 
Numbers35:21 Or a man might hit someone with his hand because he hates him. If the person dies as a result, you must kill the murderer. The dead person's relative must kill the murderer when he meets him." 
Numbers35:22 But when a man kills another person, it might be a mistake. For example, he might push someone very hard, or he might throw something at another person. If he did not hate the other person, then it might be a mistake." 
Numbers35:23 Or he might drop a heavy stone on someone when he had not seen them. If he did not hate the other person, perhaps he did not mean to hurt him." 
Numbers35:24 If that happens, the people must judge who is right. They must choose between the killer and the dead person's relative. They must use those rules to decide if the man is a murderer." 
Numbers35:25 If the man is a killer but not a murderer, the people must keep him safe from the dead person's relative. They must send him back to the safe city that he ran to. He will live there safely until the death of the leader of God's priests." 
Numbers35:26 But one day, the killer might go outside the border of the safe city that he ran to." 
Numbers35:27 If he does that, the dead person's relative might find him outside the safe city. Then, if the dead person's relative kills him, the relative will not be guilty of murder." 
Numbers35:28 That is because the killer should have stayed in his safe city until the death of the leader of the priests. But after the leader of the priests dies, the killer may return to his own home." 
Numbers35:29 Wherever you and your descendants live, these are the rules that you must obey for all future time." 
Numbers35:30 Before you kill a murderer, people must agree that they saw him kill someone. But if only one person saw what happened, that is not enough for you to kill him." 
Numbers35:31 You must not accept money to pay for the life of a murderer. If he is guilty of murder, you must kill him." 
Numbers35:32 Also, you must not accept money from a killer who has run to a safe city. You must not let him return to his own home until the leader of the priests has died." 
Numbers35:33 Murder causes the land where you live to become unclean. You have to make it clean again. You must kill anyone who murders another person. That is the only way to make the land clean again. 
Numbers35:34 You must not make the land where you live become unclean. It is the land where I also live. That is because I, the Lord, live among the Israelites.’" 
Numbers36:1 The leaders of the families in Gilead's clan went to Moses and to the other leaders of the Israelites' clans. (Gilead was the descendant of Makir, who was the descendant of Manasseh. Manasseh was Joseph's son.)" 
Numbers36:2 They said, ‘The Lord told you, sir, that you should decide which parts of the land to give to each Israelite family. You used special stones to do that. The Lord told you to give Zelophehad's land to his daughters. Zelophehad was in our clan." 
Numbers36:3 But if his daughters marry, the land will then belong to their husbands. If they marry men from other tribes, the land will no longer belong to us, the tribe of Manasseh." 
Numbers36:4 Even when the Jubilee year comes, the land will not return to our tribe. It will belong to the tribes of the men that Zelophehad's daughters have married.’" 
Numbers36:5 The Lord gave Moses his answer. So Moses gave this command to the Israelites: ‘What Joseph's descendants are saying is right. 
Numbers36:6 This is what the Lord has commanded about the daughters of Zelophehad: Let them marry men that they want to marry. But they must marry men from the clans of their father's tribe. 
Numbers36:7 If they do that, each tribe will keep the land that has been given to their ancestors. None of their land will go to another tribe." 
Numbers36:8 Any young woman who receives land when her father dies must marry a man from her father's tribe. All the Israelite tribes must obey that rule. Then every Israelite person will keep the land that belonged to his ancestors. 
Numbers36:9 No land that belongs to any tribe will become the land of another tribe. So each tribe will keep the land that their ancestors had.’ 
Numbers36:10 The daughters of Zelophehad did what the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Numbers36:11 Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, married sons of their father's brothers." 
Numbers36:12 They married men from the clans of the descendants of Joseph's son, Manasseh. Because of that, their land remained with the tribe of their father's clan." 
Numbers36:13 Those are the rules that the Lord gave to the Israelites at that time. The Lord told Moses what he should say to the people. That happened when they were beside the Jordan River in Moab, on the flat ground on the other side of the river from Jericho city." 
Deuteronomy1:1 These are the words that Moses spoke to all the Israelites. They were together in the desert on the east side of the Jordan River. It was in the Jordan Valley near Suph, the towns called Paran, Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth and Dizahab." 
Deuteronomy1:2 It is a journey of 11 days from Sinai to Kadesh-Barnea, along the road past Mount Seir." 
Deuteronomy1:3 Moses spoke to the Israelites on the first day of the 11th month in the 40th year of their journey. He told the Israelites the message that the Lord had commanded him to speak. 
Deuteronomy1:4 This happened after Moses and the Israelites had won against Sihon, king of the Amorites. Sihon ruled in Heshbon. They had also won against Og, the king of Bashan, who ruled in Ashtaroth. The Israelites fought against him at Edrei." 
Deuteronomy1:5 Moses began to speak the Lord 's message on the east side of the Jordan River, in Moab's country. This is what he said:" 
Deuteronomy1:6 The Lord our God said to us at Sinai, ‘You have stayed for a long time near this mountain." 
Deuteronomy1:7 Now you must continue your journey. Go to the hill country of the Amorites and to all the regions near there. Go to the Jordan Valley and the mountains and the low hills in the west. Go to the Negev in the south, and to the Mediterranean coast. Go to the land of Canaan and to Lebanon, even as far as the great Euphrates River." 
Deuteronomy1:8 Look! I have given you all this land. Go there and take it for yourselves. I, the Lord, promised to give this land to your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and to their descendants.’" 
Deuteronomy1:9 At that time I, Moses, said this to you: ‘I cannot lead you and help you by myself. It is too difficult for me to do alone." 
Deuteronomy1:10 The Lord your God has caused you to become very many people. You are as many as the stars in the sky! 
Deuteronomy1:11 I pray that the Lord, your ancestors' God, will cause you to become a thousand times as many people. That is how he has promised to bless you." 
Deuteronomy1:12 But I cannot help you with your troubles and arguments all by myself. 
Deuteronomy1:13 You must choose some wise men who understand what is right. Choose people that you know, from each of your tribes. Then I will give them authority as your leaders.’" 
Deuteronomy1:14 You answered me, ‘That is a good idea!’" 
Deuteronomy1:15 So I chose men that you knew were wise to be the leaders in your tribes. I gave them authority to rule over you. Some were leaders of groups of 1,000 men. Some led groups of 100 men, or 50 men, or ten men. I also chose other officers for each tribe." 
Deuteronomy1:16 At that time, I said to your leaders, ‘Listen to the arguments between the Israelites that you lead. Decide what is right. Do that when the argument is between two Israelites. Do the same thing when the argument is between an Israelite and a foreign person who lives among you." 
Deuteronomy1:17 When you judge them, do not make any difference between important people and poor people. Listen to all of them in a careful way. Do not be afraid of anyone. God is the one who decides what is right. If it is too difficult for you to decide who is right, bring it to me. I will listen and then I will decide what is right.’" 
Deuteronomy1:18 So, at that time, I told you about everything that you should do." 
Deuteronomy1:19 Then we left Sinai, as the Lord our God had commanded us to do. We travelled through the desert towards the hill country of the Amorites. You saw that the desert was very big and it made you very afraid. Finally, we arrived at Kadesh-Barnea." 
Deuteronomy1:20 Then I said to you, ‘You have reached the hill country of the Amorites. The Lord our God is giving this land to us." 
Deuteronomy1:21 Look at the land! It is now in front of you! The Lord your God has given it to you. Go in and take it for yourselves. The Lord, your ancestors' God, has told you to do this. So do not be afraid. Be brave!’" 
Deuteronomy1:22 Then all of you came to me and you said, ‘Let us send some men into the land first, before we all go in. They can explore the land. Then they can bring a report to us. They can tell us the best way for us to go in there. They can tell us about the towns that we will come to.’" 
Deuteronomy1:23 I thought that this was a good idea. I chose 12 men, one from each of your tribes." 
Deuteronomy1:24 They left and went up into the hill country. They came to Eshcol Valley and they explored it. 
Deuteronomy1:25 They picked some of the fruit that they found there and they brought it back to us. They told us, ‘The land that the Lord our God is giving to us is a very good land.’" 
Deuteronomy1:26 But you refused to go into the land. You turned against the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy1:27 You complained to each other in your tents. You said, ‘The Lord hates us. That is why he brought us out of Egypt. He wanted to give us to the Amorites, so that they would kill us." 
Deuteronomy1:28 We do not know what will happen to us now. Our brothers who explored the land have made us afraid. They say, “Those people in Canaan are taller and stronger than we are. Their cities are big and strong. They have walls around them that reach up to the sky. We even saw some men there who are descendants of Anak.” ’" 
Deuteronomy1:29 Then I said to you, ‘Do not be so frightened of those people." 
Deuteronomy1:30 The Lord your God will go in front of you. He will fight to help you, as he fought for you in Egypt. You saw him do it." 
Deuteronomy1:31 He was also with you in the desert. He helped you when you were weak, as a father carries his son. You saw how he helped you all the way on your journey. He brought you safely here to this place.’" 
Deuteronomy1:32 But you did not trust the Lord your God to help you. 
Deuteronomy1:33 He was the one who went in front of you on your journey. He was there in a fire during the night and in a cloud during the day. He found good places for you to put up your tents. He showed you the way that you should go. 
Deuteronomy1:34 When the Lord heard that you were complaining, he was angry. He made this serious promise:" 
Deuteronomy1:35 ‘You people who are now alive are wicked. None of you will see the good land that I promised to give to your ancestors. 
Deuteronomy1:36 Only Jephunneh's son Caleb will see it. He has obeyed me faithfully. So I will give to him and to his descendants the land that he walked on.’ 
Deuteronomy1:37 As for me, the Lord became angry with me also, because of you. He said to me, ‘You also will not go into the land." 
Deuteronomy1:38 But your servant Joshua, the son of Nun, will go in there. You must tell him to be brave. He will lead the Israelites into the land. It will become their land." 
Deuteronomy1:38 But your servant Joshua, the son of Nun, will go in there. You must tell him to be brave. He will lead the Israelites into the land. It will become their land." 
Deuteronomy1:39 You thought that enemies would catch your small children. But they are the people who will go into the land. Your children who are still too young to know the difference between good and bad will also go in there. I will give the land to them and it will become their land. 
Deuteronomy1:40 But now you must all turn back towards the desert. Travel along the road to the Red Sea.’ 
Deuteronomy1:41 Then you answered me. You said, ‘Yes, we have done wrong things against the Lord. We will now go and fight those people. We will do what the Lord our God has told us to do.’ So then each one of you picked up his weapons. You thought that it would be easy to go up into the hill country." 
Deuteronomy1:42 But the Lord told me, ‘Do not let them go up there to fight. I will not be with you to help you. Your enemies will win against you.’" 
Deuteronomy1:43 So I told you what the Lord had said, but you would not agree. Instead, you turned against the Lord. You were so proud that you marched up into the hill country." 
Deuteronomy1:44 The Amorite people who lived in those hills came out to attack you. You ran away from them, as if they were a crowd of bees. They attacked you as you ran down into the country of Edom, all the way to Hormah." 
Deuteronomy1:45 Then you came back to Kadesh-Barnea. You wept to show the Lord that you were very sorry. But he would not listen to your prayers. 
Deuteronomy1:46 So you stayed in Kadesh for a long time, until it was time to leave." 
Deuteronomy2:1 Then we turned back to travel towards the desert. We went along the road to the Red Sea, as the Lord had told me. For many days, we walked around the region of Mount Seir." 
Deuteronomy2:2 Then the Lord said to me," 
Deuteronomy2:3 ‘You have walked round this mountain for a long time. Now turn to the north. 
Deuteronomy2:4 Give this message to the Israelites: “You will soon go through the country that belongs to Esau's descendants. They have the same ancestors that you have. They live in Seir. They will be afraid of you, so be very careful." 
Deuteronomy2:5 Do not attack them at all. I will not give any of their land to you, not even enough ground to put your foot on. I have given the hills around Mount Seir to Esau, for his descendants to live there." 
Deuteronomy2:6 When you eat their food and you drink their water, you must pay them for it." 
Deuteronomy2:7 I, the Lord your God, have blessed you in everything that you have done. I have taken care of you as you travelled through this great desert. I have been with you for 40 years. You have received everything that you needed.” ’" 
Deuteronomy2:8 So we went on. We passed the descendants of Esau, who live in Seir. They have the same ancestors that we have. We left the road through the Jordan Valley that goes from Elath and Ezion-Geber. Instead, we travelled on the road through the Moab Desert." 
Deuteronomy2:9 Then the Lord said to me, ‘Do not make the people of Moab angry. Do not start a fight against them. I will not give any part of their land to you. I have given Ar to Lot's descendants to be their city.’" 
Deuteronomy2:10 (Some people called the Emites once lived there. There were many of them and they were as strong and tall as the Anakites. 
Deuteronomy2:11 Some people called the Emites and the Anakites, ‘Rephaites’. But the people from Moab called them ‘Emites’." 
Deuteronomy2:12 Before this time, the Horites lived in Seir, but the descendants of Esau chased them away. They destroyed the Horites and they lived in their country. The Israelites did the same thing to the people who had lived in the land that the Lord gave to them.)" 
Deuteronomy2:13 Then the Lord said, ‘Get up now and go across the Zered Valley.’ So we went across the stream." 
Deuteronomy2:14 It had been 38 years since we left Kadesh-Barnea. By the time we went across the Zered Valley, all the men who had been old enough to fight had now died. The Lord had said that this would happen." 
Deuteronomy2:15 The Lord himself removed them so that they all died, one by one." 
Deuteronomy2:16 Finally, the last one of these men died and no longer lived among the people." 
Deuteronomy2:17 Then the Lord said to me," 
Deuteronomy2:18 ‘Today you will go across the border of Moab at Ar. 
Deuteronomy2:19 You will go into the land of the Ammonites. Do not make them angry so that they fight against you. I will not give any of their land to you. I have already given it to Lot's descendants so that they can live there.’ 
Deuteronomy2:20 (People also call this region the land of the Rephaites, who had once lived there. The Ammonites called them Zamzummites." 
Deuteronomy2:21 There were many Zamzummites and they were as tall and strong as the Anakites. The Lord destroyed the Rephaites when the Ammonites moved in. Then the Ammonites lived there instead of the Rephaites. 
Deuteronomy2:22 The Lord had done the same thing for Esau's descendants who lived in Seir. The Lord destroyed the Horites when Esau's descendants moved in and chased them out. Esau's descendants still live in their country today. 
Deuteronomy2:23 The same thing happened to the Avvites. They had lived in villages as far west as Gaza. But Philistines came from Crete island and they killed the Avvites. The Philistines lived there instead.) 
Deuteronomy2:24 Then God said, ‘Now go across Arnon Valley. Look, I have given you the land of King Sihon, the Amorite. He is the king of Heshbon. You must go and fight against him. Attack him and take his land for yourselves." 
Deuteronomy2:25 Today I will begin to make all the people in the world afraid of you. They will hear reports about you. That will cause them to be very frightened. They will shake with fear!’ 
Deuteronomy2:26 When we were in Kedemoth Desert, I sent a message to Sihon, king of Heshbon. We wanted to agree that we would not fight against each other." 
Deuteronomy2:27 I said to him, ‘Please let us go through your country. We will only travel along the road. We will not turn away from the road, to the right side or to the left side." 
Deuteronomy2:28 Please sell us food to eat and water to drink. We will pay you with silver coins. We only want to walk through your country. 
Deuteronomy2:29 The descendants of Esau who live in Seir let us do this. So did the descendants of Moab who live in Ar. We will go through your country and then we will go across the Jordan River. We will go into the land that the Lord our God is giving to us.’ 
Deuteronomy2:30 But Sihon, the king of Heshbon, refused to let us travel through his country. He was too proud to agree with us. The Lord our God had caused him to be like that. He wanted to put King Sihon under your power and give his land to you. You still live in his land today." 
Deuteronomy2:31 The Lord said to me, ‘Look! I have begun to give King Sihon and his country to you. Now you must begin to fight against him and take his land for yourselves.’" 
Deuteronomy2:32 Then Sihon and all his army came out to fight a battle against us at Jahaz. 
Deuteronomy2:33 The Lord our God put him under our power. We won the battle against him. We killed King Sihon and his sons and all his soldiers. 
Deuteronomy2:34 At that time we took all his towns and we gave everything as a gift to the Lord. We killed the men, women and children. We left no one alive." 
Deuteronomy2:35 But we kept the farm animals and other valuable things in the cities for ourselves. 
Deuteronomy2:36 The Lord our God gave us all their towns. That included Aroer, on the edge of the Arnon Valley, the city in the valley and other towns all the way to Gilead. No town was too strong for us to take." 
Deuteronomy2:37 But we did not go into the Ammonites' country. We did not go into the Jabbok Valley. We did not go near the towns in the hill country. The Lord our God had commanded us not to attack those places. 
Deuteronomy3:1 Then we turned and we went along the road towards Bashan. Og, king of Bashan, marched out with his whole army to attack us at Edrei." 
Deuteronomy3:2 But the Lord said to me, ‘Do not be afraid of him. I have given him to you with his whole army and his land. You must do the same thing to Og as you did to Sihon, king of the Amorites, who ruled in Heshbon.’" 
Deuteronomy3:3 So the Lord our God put Og, king of Bashan, under our power, as well as his whole army. We killed them all so that we left no one alive." 
Deuteronomy3:4 Then we took all of his cities. We took power over all the cities in the region of Argob where King Og of Bashan ruled. There were 60 cities. 
Deuteronomy3:5 All the cities had high walls around them, with gates that the people locked. There were also very many villages which did not have walls around them." 
Deuteronomy3:6 We destroyed them completely as a gift to the Lord. We had done the same thing to the cities of Sihon, king of Heshbon. We destroyed every city and we killed all the men, women and children." 
Deuteronomy3:7 But we kept all the animals and the valuable things from the cities for ourselves. 
Deuteronomy3:8 So, at that time, we took power over all the land that the two Amorite kings, Og and Bashan, had ruled. Their land was east of the Jordan River, from the Arnon Valley to Mount Hermon." 
Deuteronomy3:9 (The people from Sidon call Mount Hermon ‘Sirion’. The Amorites call it ‘Senir’.) 
Deuteronomy3:10 We took all their cities in the high, flat land and cities in the whole of Gilead and in Bashan. We went as far as Salecah and Edrei, cities that belonged to the kingdom of Og in Bashan." 
Deuteronomy3:11 Og, king of Bashan, was the only descendant of the Rephaites who had still been alive. He had an iron bed that is still in the Ammonites' town, Rabbah. It was 4 metres long and 2 metres wide." 
Deuteronomy3:12 When we had taken power over all that land, I gave some of it to the tribes of Reuben and Gad. I gave them the land north of Aroer near the Arnon Valley. I also gave them half of the hill country of Gilead and the cities there." 
Deuteronomy3:13 I gave the other part of Gilead to one half of the tribe of Manasseh. I also gave Og's kingdom, Bashan, to them. People called all the region of Argob in Bashan the land of the Rephaites." 
Deuteronomy3:14 Jair belonged to the tribe of Manasseh. He took power over all the region of Argob. He went as far as the borders of Geshur and Maakah. Then he gave his own name to that land. To this day, Bashan has the name ‘Jair's towns’." 
Deuteronomy3:15 I gave Gilead to Makir, who also belonged to the tribe of Manasseh." 
Deuteronomy3:16 As for the tribes of Reuben and Gad, I gave them land from Gilead to the Arnon Valley. The middle of the valley was the border of their land. Their land went as far as the Jabbok Valley, which is the border of the Ammonites' land." 
Deuteronomy3:17 The valley of the Jordan River was also a border of their land. It went from Lake Galilee as far as the Salt Sea, with Mount Pisgah to the east." 
Deuteronomy3:18 At that time I commanded you, ‘The Lord your God has given this land to you, for you to live in it. But all your soldiers must take their weapons and they must go across the Jordan River. You must go in front of the other Israelite tribes across the river." 
Deuteronomy3:19 But your wives, your children and your animals may stay here in the towns that I have given to you. I know that you have many animals." 
Deuteronomy3:20 Your men must fight to help the other Israelites until the Lord gives them a safe place to live. He has already given you a safe place to live. Now you must help the other Israelites to take the land which the Lord your God is giving to them. That land is on the other side of the Jordan River. When they take the land for themselves, you may return here to the land that I have given to you.’" 
Deuteronomy3:21 At that time, I commanded Joshua, ‘You have seen everything that the Lord your God has done to those two kings, Sihon and Og. He will do the same thing to the kingdoms where you are going." 
Deuteronomy3:21 At that time, I commanded Joshua, ‘You have seen everything that the Lord your God has done to those two kings, Sihon and Og. He will do the same thing to the kingdoms where you are going." 
Deuteronomy3:22 So do not be afraid of them. The Lord your God himself will fight to help you.’ 
Deuteronomy3:23 At that time, I asked the Lord many times," 
Deuteronomy3:24 ‘ Almighty Lord, I am your servant. You are showing me how great and how strong you are. There is no other god in heaven or on earth that can do the great things that you do." 
Deuteronomy3:25 Please let me go across the Jordan River! I want to see the good land over there. I want to see the beautiful hills and the mountains in Lebanon.’ 
Deuteronomy3:26 But the Lord was angry with me, because of you. He would not answer my prayer. He said, ‘You have said enough! Do not speak to me about that any more." 
Deuteronomy3:27 Go up to the top of Mount Pisgah. Stand there and look all around, to the west, north, south and east. Look carefully at the land, because you will not go across the Jordan River." 
Deuteronomy3:28 Now you must tell Joshua what to do. Tell him to be brave and strong. He will lead my people across the river into the land that you see. He will help them to take the land for themselves.’ 
Deuteronomy3:28 Now you must tell Joshua what to do. Tell him to be brave and strong. He will lead my people across the river into the land that you see. He will help them to take the land for themselves.’ 
Deuteronomy3:29 After that, we stayed in the valley near Beth-Peor." 
Deuteronomy4:1 Israel's people, listen to the rules and laws that I will now teach you. If you obey them, you will live. You will go into the land that the Lord, the God of your ancestors, is giving to you. The land will belong to you, for you to live in." 
Deuteronomy4:2 Do not add anything to these rules. Do not remove anything from them. You must obey the commands of the Lord your God that I am giving to you. 
Deuteronomy4:3 You saw for yourselves what the Lord your God did at Baal-Peor. He killed every person among you who worshipped Baal there. 
Deuteronomy4:4 But each of you who continued to trust the Lord your God is still alive today. 
Deuteronomy4:5 Look! I have taught you rules and laws, as the Lord my God told me to do. Now you must obey them when you go into the land where you will live." 
Deuteronomy4:6 Obey them carefully. That will show people of other nations that you are wise. They will hear about all your laws. Then they will say, ‘The people of this great nation are very wise and clever!’" 
Deuteronomy4:7 No other nation has a god who is near to them like the Lord our God. Even great nations have no god like that. But when we pray to the Lord our God, he listens!" 
Deuteronomy4:8 And no other great nation has rules and laws that are as fair as ours. That is God's Law that I am giving to you today. 
Deuteronomy4:9 But be very careful! Never forget the things that you yourselves have seen. Remember these things for as long as you live. Tell your children and your grandchildren about all the things that God has done. 
Deuteronomy4:10 Remember when you stood in front of the Lord your God at Sinai. He said to me, ‘Bring all the people here to me so that I can tell them my commands. Then they will learn to respect me and obey me. They will do this for as long as they live and they will teach my commands to their children.’" 
Deuteronomy4:11 At that time, you came and you stood at the edge of the mountain. You saw that the fire on the mountain reached up to the sky. But the sky was full of black clouds and it was dark." 
Deuteronomy4:12 Then the Lord spoke to you from the middle of the fire. You heard him as he spoke, but you did not see him. You only heard a voice." 
Deuteronomy4:13 He told you about his covenant and the ten commands that he wrote on two flat pieces of stone. He commanded you to obey them. 
Deuteronomy4:14 At that time, the Lord commanded me to teach you his rules and his laws. You must obey them in the land that you will now go to live in as your home." 
Deuteronomy4:15 Remember when the Lord spoke to you at Mount Sinai from the middle of the fire. You did not see him in any shape. So be very careful about everything that you do. 
Deuteronomy4:16 Do not make any image to be your god. That would be a sin. Do not make an image in any shape as your idol. Do not copy the shape of a man or a woman," 
Deuteronomy4:17 or the shape of any animal or bird. 
Deuteronomy4:18 Do not copy the shape of anything that moves along the ground, or any fish that swims in the deep water." 
Deuteronomy4:19 When you look up at the sky, you see the sun, the moon and the stars. They all shine up in the sky. But do not bend down low to them or worship them. They are there because the Lord your God has made them. He has given them to people everywhere in the world." 
Deuteronomy4:20 But you belong to the Lord. He brought you out of Egypt, which was like a hot oven where you had much pain. He rescued you, to be his own special people, as you are today." 
Deuteronomy4:21 The Lord your God became angry with me, because of you. He told me very strongly that I would not go across the Jordan River. He said that I would not go into the good land that he is now giving to you." 
Deuteronomy4:22 So I will die here. I will not go across the Jordan River. But you will soon go across. That good land will belong to you as your home. 
Deuteronomy4:23 Be careful! Do not forget the covenant that the Lord your God has made with you. Do not make for yourselves any kind of image as your idol. That is the command that he has given to you. 
Deuteronomy4:24 That is because the Lord your God wants you to belong to him alone. He is like a fire that destroys all bad things. 
Deuteronomy4:25 One day, you will have lived in the land for a long time. You will have children and grandchildren. Remember that you still must not make any kind of image as your idol. That would be a sin. Do not do any evil things that will cause the Lord your God to become angry." 
Deuteronomy4:26 I am warning you today, as everyone on earth and everyone in heaven hears what I say. If you do not obey this command, you will soon die. You will not live long in the land that is your home on the other side of the Jordan River. You will die very soon." 
Deuteronomy4:27 The Lord will send you out of that land to live among other nations. Only a few of you will continue to be alive. 
Deuteronomy4:28 Among those nations, you will worship gods that men have made from wood and stone. Those gods cannot see or hear or eat or smell anything." 
Deuteronomy4:29 But even in those places, if you look for the Lord your God, you will find him. If you want to serve him with everything that you think and with everything that you do, you will find him." 
Deuteronomy4:30 When trouble happens to you in the future, you will turn back to him. When all these bad things happen to you, you will obey God again." 
Deuteronomy4:31 That is because the Lord your God is very kind. So he will not leave you alone. He will never destroy you. He will never forget the covenant that he made with your ancestors. That was a serious promise that he made to them. 
Deuteronomy4:32 Study what happened many years ago. Think about everything that has happened since God created people to live on the earth. Go to anyone in the world and ask them. You will realize that nothing as great as this has ever happened before. People have never heard of anything like this. 
Deuteronomy4:33 Only you, the nation of Israel, have heard the voice of God that spoke to you from the middle of the fire. Only you have heard God speak and you still live!" 
Deuteronomy4:34 No other god has tried to rescue a nation from the power of another nation. The Lord your God did this for you when you were in Egypt. You saw how he used his great authority and strength to punish the Egyptians. He did powerful miracles. He brought war and disease that made them very afraid. 
Deuteronomy4:35 The Lord has shown you all these things. So you know that he is the only true God. There is no other God. 
Deuteronomy4:36 God spoke to you from heaven so that he could teach you. Here on earth he let you see his great fire. He spoke from that fire and you heard him. 
Deuteronomy4:37 He chose you as his special people because he loved your ancestors. You are their descendants so he rescued you out of Egypt. He himself showed you his great power. 
Deuteronomy4:38 Now he is chasing out other nations so that you can take their land to live in. They are greater and stronger nations than you are, but he has given their land to you." 
Deuteronomy4:39 Remember today that the Lord is God. He rules in heaven above and on the earth below. Think about that! There is no other God. 
Deuteronomy4:40 Obey his commands and his rules that I am giving you today. If you do that, everything will be well for you and for your descendants. You will continue to live for a long time in the land that the Lord your God is giving to you. It will belong to you for ever." 
Deuteronomy4:41 Then Moses chose three special cities on the east side of the Jordan River. 
Deuteronomy4:42 If someone killed another person when he did not mean to do it, he could hide there safely. If he had not hated the other person as his enemy, he could run to one of these cities. Then he would be safe." 
Deuteronomy4:43 Moses chose these cities: For Reuben's tribe, he chose Bezer, in the high land of the desert. For Gad's tribe, he chose Ramoth, in Gilead. For Manasseh's tribe, he chose Golan, in Bashan." 
Deuteronomy4:44 This is God's Law that Moses explained to the Israelites. 
Deuteronomy4:45 These are the rules, the teaching and the commands that Moses taught the Israelites after they had left Egypt." 
Deuteronomy4:46 At that time they were in the valley near to Beth-Peor, on the east side of the Jordan River. That was in the land of Sihon, king of the Amorites, who ruled in Heshbon. Moses and the Israelites had attacked him after they came out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy4:47 They took power over his land, as well as the land of Og, king of Bashan. These two Amorite kings ruled on the east side of the Jordan River." 
Deuteronomy4:48 Their land went from Aroer, on the edge of the Arnon Valley, as far as Mount Sirion (that is Mount Hermon)." 
Deuteronomy4:49 This land included all the Jordan Valley on the east side of the river, as far south as the Salt Sea, near Mount Pisgah." 
Deuteronomy5:1 Moses called all the Israelites to come together. He said to them: Listen, Israelites, to the rules and commands that I am teaching to you today. Learn them. Be careful to obey them." 
Deuteronomy5:2 The Lord our God made a covenant with us at Sinai. 
Deuteronomy5:3 He did not make this agreement with our ancestors. He made it with all of us who are alive here today. 
Deuteronomy5:4 The Lord spoke clearly to you from the middle of the fire on the mountain. 
Deuteronomy5:5 (At that time, I stood between the Lord and you. I repeated the Lord 's message to you. You were afraid of the fire, so you did not go up the mountain.) God said this:" 
Deuteronomy5:6 ‘I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt, the country where you were slaves." 
Deuteronomy5:7 You must not have any other gods except me. 
Deuteronomy5:8 You must not make any idol for yourself. Do not make a false god in the shape of anything that is in the sky above. Do not make one in the shape of anything on the earth or in the sea. 
Deuteronomy5:9 You must not bend down your head to any idol or worship it. I am the Lord your God and I want you to belong to me alone. I will punish children because of the bad things that their fathers have done. I will also punish their grandchildren and their children too. That is how I will punish everyone who hates me. 
Deuteronomy5:10 But I will truly love all those who love me. They are the people who obey my laws. I will continue to love them and their families for ever. 
Deuteronomy5:11 You must not speak the name of the Lord your God in a wrong way. The Lord will punish anyone who speaks his name in a wrong way. 
Deuteronomy5:12 Always make the Sabbath day a special day for God, as the Lord your God has commanded you." 
Deuteronomy5:13 You have six days every week to do all your work. 
Deuteronomy5:14 But the seventh day is a Sabbath day. It is special for the Lord your God. You must not do any work on that day. Your son and your daughter must not work on that day. Your servants, male or female, must not work on that day. Your ox or your donkey or any of your animals must not work on that day, nor any foreign person who lives among you. Then your servants can rest in the same way as you rest." 
Deuteronomy5:15 You must remember that you were slaves in Egypt. But I, the Lord your God, brought you out by my powerful authority. So the Lord your God has told you to make the Sabbath day a special day." 
Deuteronomy5:16 Always respect your father and your mother, as the Lord your God has commanded you. Then you will live for many years in the land that the Lord your God will give to you. And you will be happy." 
Deuteronomy5:17 You must not murder anyone. 
Deuteronomy5:18 You must not have sex with another person's wife or husband. 
Deuteronomy5:19 You must not take another person's things for yourself. 
Deuteronomy5:20 You must not say false things against your neighbour. 
Deuteronomy5:21 You must not want to take your neighbour's wife for yourself. You must not want his house or his land, or his servants, male or female. You must not want his ox or his donkey or anything else that belongs to your neighbour.’" 
Deuteronomy5:22 These are the commands that the Lord spoke to you. You were all there together at the mountain. He spoke with a loud voice from the middle of a great fire. There was a cloud and it was very dark. He gave only those commands. Then he wrote them on two flat stones and he gave them to me. 
Deuteronomy5:23 The mountain was burning with fire and you heard God's voice speak from the darkness. Then the leaders and older men of your tribes came to speak to me. 
Deuteronomy5:24 They said, ‘The Lord our God has shown us how great and how powerful he is. We have heard his voice from the middle of the fire. We have learned this: People can continue to live, even after God has spoken to them." 
Deuteronomy5:25 But now we think that this great fire will kill us. We do not want to die! If we continue to hear the voice of the Lord our God, we will surely die." 
Deuteronomy5:26 The God who lives for ever has spoken to us from the middle of the fire. Has anyone ever heard him speak like that and then continued to live? 
Deuteronomy5:27 We ask you to go near to the Lord our God. Listen to everything that he says. Then you should tell us what he says to you. We will listen carefully and we will obey him.’ 
Deuteronomy5:28 The Lord heard what you said to me. He said to me, ‘I have heard what these people have said to you. What they said is right." 
Deuteronomy5:29 I really want them to respect me with fear. I want them to obey my commands in the future! If they do that, everything will be well for them and for their descendants for ever." 
Deuteronomy5:30 Now tell them to return to their tents. 
Deuteronomy5:31 But you should stay here with me. I will tell you all the commands, rules and laws that you must teach to the people. Then they can obey them in the land that I will give them to live in.’" 
Deuteronomy5:32 So you must be careful to do everything that the Lord your God has commanded you to do. You must not refuse to obey any of his laws. 
Deuteronomy5:33 Live in the way that he has commanded you. If you do that, you will be happy in the land where you are going. You will live for a long time in the land that will be your home." 
Deuteronomy6:1 These are the commands, rules and laws that the Lord your God gave to me. He told me to teach them to you. You must obey them when you go across the Jordan River to live in that land." 
Deuteronomy6:2 You must respect the Lord your God with fear. You must obey his rules and his commands that I am teaching you. You, your children and your grandchildren must obey them all through your lives. If you do that, you will enjoy a long life." 
Deuteronomy6:3 Listen, Israelites! Be careful to obey God's rules. If you do that, everything will be well for you. You will have many children. You will live in a land where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone. The Lord, the God of your ancestors, promised that this will happen." 
Deuteronomy6:4 Listen, Israelites! The Lord alone is our God. There is no other true God." 
Deuteronomy6:5 Love the Lord your God with all your mind and with all your strength. Love him with all that you are. 
Deuteronomy6:6 Always think about these commands that I am giving you today. 
Deuteronomy6:7 Teach them to your children at all times. Talk about them when you sit together at home. Talk about them as you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you get up." 
Deuteronomy6:8 Tie them as signs on your arms and on your heads, so that you remember them." 
Deuteronomy6:9 Write them on the wood beside the doors of your houses and on your gates. 
Deuteronomy6:10 The Lord your God will soon bring you into a land that has large, beautiful cities that you did not build. That is the land that he promised to give to your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy6:11 It has houses that are full of good things that you did not put into them. There are wells of water that you did not dig. There are fields with grapes and olive trees that you did not plant. You will be able to eat as much as you want. 
Deuteronomy6:12 But be careful that you do not forget the Lord. He rescued you from Egypt, where you were slaves." 
Deuteronomy6:13 You must respect and obey the Lord your God. Serve only him. If you make a serious promise, only use his name to make it strong." 
Deuteronomy6:14 Do not try to serve other gods. They are the gods that the people who live around you worship. 
Deuteronomy6:15 The Lord your God lives among you. He wants you to belong to him alone. If you worship other gods, he will be very angry with you. He will completely destroy you from the whole earth." 
Deuteronomy6:16 Do not test the Lord your God, to see what he will do. That is what you did at Massah." 
Deuteronomy6:17 Be careful to obey his commands. Remember the laws and the rules that he has told you to obey. 
Deuteronomy6:18 Do things that the Lord says are right and good. If you do that, you will be happy in everything that you do. You will go into the good land that he promised to your ancestors, and that will be your home." 
Deuteronomy6:19 You will be able to chase out all your enemies, as the Lord has promised." 
Deuteronomy6:20 One day, your children may say to you, ‘Please tell us about the rules and laws that the Lord our God commanded us to obey.’" 
Deuteronomy6:21 Then you must tell them, ‘We were slaves of Pharaoh in Egypt. But the Lord used his great power to rescue us." 
Deuteronomy6:22 We saw him do great and powerful miracles that brought trouble to the Egyptians, and to Pharaoh himself and his family." 
Deuteronomy6:23 The Lord rescued us from Egypt so that he could give us another land to live in. That is the land that he promised to our ancestors. 
Deuteronomy6:24 The Lord commanded us to obey all these rules and to respect him with fear. If we do that, we will always live happily and the Lord will keep us safe, as he has done until now." 
Deuteronomy6:25 We must be careful to obey all the commands of the Lord our God. If we do what he has told us, he will be pleased with us as people who do what is right.’" 
Deuteronomy7:1 The Lord your God will now bring you into the land that will be your home. As you go in, he will chase out seven nations that now live there. Those nations are larger and more powerful than you are. They are the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites." 
Deuteronomy7:2 The Lord your God will put those people under your power so that you win against them. When that happens, you must destroy them completely as a gift to God. Do not make any agreement with them to keep them safe. Do not be kind to them." 
Deuteronomy7:3 You must not marry any of these people. Do not let your daughters marry their sons. Do not take their daughters to marry your sons. 
Deuteronomy7:4 If that happens, your children may turn away from the Lord. They will start to worship other gods. Then the Lord will be very angry with you. He will immediately destroy you." 
Deuteronomy7:5 This is what you must do to the people of those nations: Break their altars and their stone pillars into pieces. Cut down their Asherah poles. Burn their idols with fire. 
Deuteronomy7:6 Remember that you are a special people who belong to the Lord your God. He has chosen you for himself out of all the other people who live on the earth. He loves you as his special people. 
Deuteronomy7:7 Why did the Lord choose you as the people who would give him pleasure? It was not because you were the largest nation on the earth. No, you were the smallest of all nations!" 
Deuteronomy7:8 Instead, it was because of the Lord 's love for you. Also, he had made a serious promise to your ancestors and he was faithful to that promise. So he used his great power to bring you out of Egypt, where you were slaves. He rescued you from the power of Pharaoh, Egypt's king." 
Deuteronomy7:9 Remember that the Lord your God is the only true God. So love him and obey his commands. Then you can trust him to be faithful to his covenant. He made that covenant with you, his people, and with your descendants for ever." 
Deuteronomy7:10 But if his people turn against him, he will punish them as they deserve. He will quickly destroy them." 
Deuteronomy7:11 So be careful to obey all the commands, rules and laws that I am teaching you today." 
Deuteronomy7:12 Listen to these rules and be careful to obey them. If you do that, the Lord your God will be faithful to the covenant that he has made with you. He promised your ancestors that he would do this." 
Deuteronomy7:13 He will love you and he will bless you. He will give you many children so that you become a large nation. He will cause your fields to give you plenty of food: grain, wine and olive oil. He will cause your cows, sheep and goats to have many babies. That is how he will bless you in the land that he promised your ancestors to give you." 
Deuteronomy7:14 God will bless you more than any other people on the earth. All your people and all your animals will have children of their own. 
Deuteronomy7:15 The Lord will keep you safe from all kinds of disease. He will not give you any of the terrible diseases that you saw in Egypt. Instead, he will cause those diseases to hurt the people who hate you." 
Deuteronomy7:16 You must remove the people of every nation that the Lord your God will put under your power. Do not be kind to them. Do not worship their gods. If you do that, they will make you turn away from God." 
Deuteronomy7:17 Perhaps you will say to each other, ‘The people of these nations are stronger than we are. We cannot chase them away.’" 
Deuteronomy7:18 But do not be afraid of them. Remember what the Lord your God did to Pharaoh and all the Egyptian people. 
Deuteronomy7:19 You saw how he punished them. You saw how he used his strength and power to do great miracles. The Lord your God did all those things to rescue you from Egypt. He will use the same power against all the people that make you afraid. 
Deuteronomy7:20 Also, the Lord your God will send great fear among these people. Even those people who hide from you will soon die." 
Deuteronomy7:21 When you fight against them, do not let them frighten you. The Lord your God is there to help you. He is a great and powerful God." 
Deuteronomy7:22 He will chase out the people of those nations, one at a time. He will not let you destroy them all immediately. If you did that, wild animals would become so many that they would be a danger to you." 
Deuteronomy7:23 But the Lord your God will put your enemies under your power. He will cause them to become completely confused, so that you can destroy them." 
Deuteronomy7:24 He will put their kings under your power. No one will remember their names any more. No one will be able to stop you. You will destroy them all. 
Deuteronomy7:25 You must burn the images of their gods with fire. Do not try to keep the silver or gold from those idols. The Lord your God hates those things. If you take it for yourselves, it will catch you like a trap." 
Deuteronomy7:26 Do not bring anything that God hates into your house. If you do that, God will be ready to destroy you as well as the thing itself. God has said that he hates things like that, so you must hate them too." 
Deuteronomy8:1 Be careful to obey all the commands that I am giving to you today. If you do that, you will continue to live, and you will have many children. You will go into the land that the Lord your God promised to your ancestors. It will become your home." 
Deuteronomy8:2 Remember how the Lord your God led you all the way across the desert. He took care of you for 40 years. He caused many troubles to come and to test you. He did that to see if you would trust him. He wanted to know whether you would continue to obey his commands. 
Deuteronomy8:3 He caused you to become hungry and then he fed you with manna. Neither you nor your ancestors had ever seen this food before. In this way, he taught you that food alone cannot cause people to live. They need to hear every word that the Lord speaks. That is what gives them true life." 
Deuteronomy8:4 During those 40 years in the desert, your clothes did not spoil. Your feet did not become big with pain." 
Deuteronomy8:5 You should realize that the Lord your God wants you to learn what is right. When he punishes you, he is warning you. That is what a parent does to teach his child." 
Deuteronomy8:6 So obey the Lord 's commands. Live in a way that pleases him. Respect him with fear. 
Deuteronomy8:7 Remember that the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land. It is a land that has many streams, pools and springs of water. There is water that runs in the valleys and in the hills." 
Deuteronomy8:8 It is a land where you will have plenty of food to eat. There is wheat, barley, grapes, figs, pomegranates, olives and honey. You will have everything that you need. The rocks have iron in them. You can dig copper out of the hills." 
Deuteronomy8:9  
Deuteronomy8:10 You can eat all the food that you want. Then remember to thank the Lord your God for the good land that he has given to you. 
Deuteronomy8:11 Be careful that you do not forget the Lord your God. Always remember to obey his commands, rules and laws that I am telling you today." 
Deuteronomy8:12 When you are living in the land, you will have plenty of food to eat. You will build beautiful houses to live in." 
Deuteronomy8:13 You will have many cows, sheep and goats. You will have plenty of gold and silver. You will have many more things than you have now." 
Deuteronomy8:14 Then be careful! Do not become proud. Never forget the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt. He rescued you from the place where you were slaves. 
Deuteronomy8:15 He led you through the large and terrible desert where there were dangerous snakes and scorpions. It was very hot and dry. There was no water there for you to drink. But the Lord made water pour out of a hard rock for you. 
Deuteronomy8:16 In the desert, he gave you manna to eat. That was food that your ancestors had never seen. He tested you, to see if you would trust him. He did that to help you enjoy good things in the end." 
Deuteronomy8:17 You must never say to yourself, ‘I have got all these valuable things because I am strong and clever!’" 
Deuteronomy8:18 Instead, you must always remember the Lord your God. He is the one who gives you the strength to get good things. He does that to show that his covenant still has authority today. That is the covenant that he promised to your ancestors." 
Deuteronomy8:19 But if you forget the Lord your God, he will destroy you. If you turn to other gods and you worship them, I warn you now: God will certainly destroy you!" 
Deuteronomy8:20 The Lord will do the same thing to you as he does to your enemies. Like those nations, he will completely destroy you if you do not obey him." 
Deuteronomy9:1 Moses said: Listen, Israelites! You will soon go across the Jordan River. You will chase away the people who live there in large cities with very high walls around them. Those nations of people are greater and stronger than you are." 
Deuteronomy9:2 You know about the Anakites who live there. They are strong and tall. You have heard people say, ‘No one can fight against the Anakites and win.’" 
Deuteronomy9:3 But you must understand this: The Lord your God is leading you across the river. He is like a fire that destroys everything! He will win against your enemies. He will give you power over them. Then you will chase them away and remove them quickly. The Lord has promised you that this will happen. 
Deuteronomy9:4 The Lord your God will chase them away. After he has done that, be careful! Do not say to yourselves, ‘The Lord has brought us into this land because we do right things.’ No! It is because these nations are doing wicked things. That is why the Lord is chasing them out of the land so that you can live there." 
Deuteronomy9:5 It is not because you are doing right things. It is not because you are good, honest people. That is not the reason that you will take their land for yourselves. Instead, it is because these nations are wicked people. That is why the Lord your God will chase them away as you move in there. He will do what he promised to your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy9:6 You must understand this. The Lord your God is not giving you this good land to live in because you are doing right things. No! You are proud people who do not want to obey me. 
Deuteronomy9:7 Remember how you made the Lord your God angry when you were in the desert. Never forget that! Since you left Egypt, you have always turned against the Lord your God. You have continued to make him angry all the time until you arrived here." 
Deuteronomy9:8 When you were at Sinai you made him angry enough to destroy you. 
Deuteronomy9:9 I climbed the mountain to meet with the Lord. I received the two flat stones with the covenant that he had made with you. I stayed there for 40 days and nights. During that time, I did not eat or drink anything." 
Deuteronomy9:10 Then the Lord gave me the two flat stones. He had written all his commands on the stones with his own finger. The Lord spoke those commands to you from the middle of the fire. That was on the day when you all came together at the mountain. 
Deuteronomy9:11 After those 40 days and nights, the Lord gave me the two flat stones. They had his covenant on them." 
Deuteronomy9:12 Then the Lord said to me, ‘Now go down the mountain! The people that you led out of Egypt have done something very bad. They have already refused to obey my commands. They have used gold to make an idol for themselves.’" 
Deuteronomy9:13 The Lord also said to me, ‘I know what these people are like! They are proud people who do not want to obey me." 
Deuteronomy9:14 Keep away from me! I will now destroy them! Then no one on the earth will remember them at all. Instead, Moses, I will make your descendants into a nation that is stronger and larger than they are.’" 
Deuteronomy9:15 So I turned and I went down the mountain. It was still burning with fire. I held the two stones with the covenant on them in my hands. 
Deuteronomy9:16 When I looked, I saw that you had made an image of a calf as your idol. You really had done a very bad thing. You had quickly stopped doing the things that the Lord your God had commanded you to do." 
Deuteronomy9:17 When I saw that, I threw the two flat stones down onto the ground. I broke them into pieces while you watched." 
Deuteronomy9:18 Then I again fell down with my face on the ground, to pray to the Lord. I did that for 40 days and nights. I did not eat or drink anything. You had done an evil thing which caused the Lord to be very angry." 
Deuteronomy9:19 I prayed, because the Lord had said that he would destroy you. He was so angry with you that I was very afraid. But the Lord listened to me this time too." 
Deuteronomy9:20 The Lord was also angry with my brother Aaron. He wanted to kill Aaron. But at that time, I prayed for Aaron too." 
Deuteronomy9:21 When you made that idol, it was a sin that you did. So I took that gold calf and I burned it in the fire. Then I beat it into powder, like dust. I threw the powder into a stream that ran down from the mountain." 
Deuteronomy9:22 After that, you also caused the Lord to be angry with you at Taberah, at Massah and at Kibroth-Hattaavah." 
Deuteronomy9:23 When the Lord sent you out from Kadesh-Barnea, he said, ‘Go into the land that I have given to you and live there.’ But you turned against the Lord your God. You refused to trust him or obey him." 
Deuteronomy9:24 You have refused to obey the Lord ever since I have known you. 
Deuteronomy9:25 So I lay down on the ground for those 40 days and nights. I prayed to the Lord because he had said that he would destroy you. 
Deuteronomy9:26 I prayed this prayer: ‘ Almighty Lord, do not destroy your people! They belong to you as your special people. You used your great power and strength to rescue them from Egypt." 
Deuteronomy9:27 Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Do not think about these proud people who are so wicked. Please forgive their sins." 
Deuteronomy9:28 If you destroy your people, the Egyptians will say, “The Lord could not take them into the land that he promised to give to them. Instead, he took them into the desert so that he could kill them there. He did this because he hated them!”" 
Deuteronomy9:29 Please remember that they belong to you as your own special people. You used your strength and your power to rescue them.’ 
Deuteronomy10:1 At that time, the Lord said to me, ‘Cut out two new flat stones that are like the first stones. Then bring them up to me, on the mountain. You must also use some wood to make a big box." 
Deuteronomy10:2 I will write on the new stones the same words that I wrote on the first stones. You broke those stones. But you must put the new stones into the wooden box.’ 
Deuteronomy10:3 So I used acacia wood to make a box. I also cut two new flat stones that were like the first stones. Then I carried the two new stones up the mountain in my hands. 
Deuteronomy10:4 The Lord wrote on the stones the same words that he had written before. Those were the ten special commands that he had told you before. He spoke those commands from the middle of the fire on the mountain, when you came together there. Then the Lord gave the stones to me." 
Deuteronomy10:5 I came down from the mountain. I put the stones into the box that I had made, as the Lord had told me to do. The stones are still there now." 
Deuteronomy10:6 (At that time, the Israelites travelled to Moserah from the wells that belonged to Jaakan's descendants. Aaron died there and they buried him. His son Eleazar became priest instead." 
Deuteronomy10:7 Then they travelled to Gudgodah. From there they travelled to Jotbathah, a place where there are many streams of water." 
Deuteronomy10:8 At that time, the Lord chose the tribe of Levi to carry the Lord 's Covenant Box. He chose them to be his special servants. They had to pray for the Lord to bless his people. They still do these things today." 
Deuteronomy10:9 That is why the Levites did not receive any land for themselves, as the other tribes did. The Lord himself would give them everything that they needed, as he had promised.)" 
Deuteronomy10:10 I stayed on the mountain for 40 days and nights, as I did the first time. The Lord listened to my prayer. He decided that he would not destroy you." 
Deuteronomy10:11 Then the Lord said to me, ‘Go now! Lead the people on their journey. Then they can go into the land and take it for themselves. It is the land that I promised to their ancestors that I would give to them.’" 
Deuteronomy10:12 So, people of Israel, this is what the Lord your God wants you to do: You should respect him with fear. You should live in a way that pleases him. Love him and serve him in everything that you think and in everything that you do." 
Deuteronomy10:13 Obey the Lord 's commands and rules that I am giving to you today. If you do these things, you will have a happy life." 
Deuteronomy10:14 The whole sky and the highest heavens belong to the Lord your God. The earth and everything that is in it also belong to him. 
Deuteronomy10:15 But the Lord chose to love your ancestors with a faithful love. You are their descendants. He has chosen you from among all the people of the world. You can see that this is true today! 
Deuteronomy10:16 So remember that you belong to the Lord. Live to please him! Do not refuse to obey him. 
Deuteronomy10:17 For the Lord your God rules all other gods. He is the Lord over all other lords. He is great and powerful. We should respect him and obey him. He is fair to everyone. He will not accept any bribes! 
Deuteronomy10:18 He brings justice to widows and to children who have no family. He loves the foreign people who live among you. He gives them food to eat and clothes to wear. 
Deuteronomy10:19 You too must love the foreign people who live among you. Remember that you also lived as foreigners in Egypt at one time. 
Deuteronomy10:20 Respect and obey the Lord your God. Serve him faithfully. If you make a promise, only use his name to do that." 
Deuteronomy10:21 He is the one that you should praise. He is the God that you worship. He has done great and powerful things to help you, and you saw him do them." 
Deuteronomy10:22 When your ancestors went to Egypt, they were only 70 people. Now the Lord your God has caused you to become very many people. You are as many as the stars in the sky!" 
Deuteronomy11:1 Love the Lord your God. Do what he tells you to do. Always obey his rules, his laws and his commands." 
Deuteronomy11:2 Remember that today I am speaking to you who have seen his powerful acts! Your children did not see the great things that the Lord your God did to teach you. You saw for yourselves how great, strong and powerful he is." 
Deuteronomy11:3 But your children did not see the great miracles that he did in Egypt. He punished Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and all his people." 
Deuteronomy11:4 You saw how God destroyed Egypt's army, with all their horses and chariots. They were chasing after you to catch you. But God caused the water of the Red Sea to cover them, so that they drowned." 
Deuteronomy11:5 Your children did not see all the things that the Lord did in the desert as he brought you here. 
Deuteronomy11:6 They did not see how he punished Dathan and Abiram, Eliab's sons, from Reuben's tribe. God caused the earth to open up in the middle of the Israelites' camp. These men fell down into the hole and they disappeared. Their families, their tents and everything that they had all disappeared in the hole." 
Deuteronomy11:7 Remember that I am speaking to you, the people who have seen the Lord 's powerful acts." 
Deuteronomy11:8 So you must obey all the commands that I am giving to you today. If you do that, you will be able to go across the Jordan River into Canaan. You will be strong enough to take the land for yourselves and live there." 
Deuteronomy11:9 Then you will enjoy a long life in that land. It is the land that the Lord promised to give to your ancestors and to their descendants. It is a land where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone." 
Deuteronomy11:10 The land that you are going into is not like the land of Egypt, where you lived before. There, when you planted seeds, you had to take water to them. It was like a garden where you grow vegetables." 
Deuteronomy11:11 But now you are going across the Jordan River into a different kind of land. It has hills and valleys. Rain falls from the sky and makes the ground wet. 
Deuteronomy11:12 The Lord your God takes care of the land there. He watches over it every day, through the whole year." 
Deuteronomy11:13 So listen carefully to the commands that I am giving to you today. Love the Lord your God and serve him in everything that you think and in everything that you do. 
Deuteronomy11:14 If you do that, he makes this promise to you: ‘I will send rain on your land at the right time each year. There will be rain in autumn and rain in spring. Then your crops will give you food. You will also have grapes to make wine and olives to make oil." 
Deuteronomy11:15 I will make grass grow in your fields for your animals to eat. You will have as much food as you want to eat.’ 
Deuteronomy11:16 But be careful! Do not turn away from the Lord so that you worship other gods. Do not let those things deceive you. 
Deuteronomy11:17 If you do that, the Lord will be very angry with you. He will not send rain down from the sky. The land will no longer give you food to eat. Then you will soon die. You will no longer be able to live in the good land that the Lord is giving to you." 
Deuteronomy11:18 Continue to think carefully about these commands in everything that you do. Tie them as signs onto your hands so that you remember them. Also tie them around your heads. 
Deuteronomy11:19 Teach them to your children. Talk about them when you sit together at home. Talk about them as you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you get up." 
Deuteronomy11:20 Write them on the wood beside the doors of your houses and on your gates. 
Deuteronomy11:21 Do these things so that you and your descendants will live long lives in the land. It is the land that the Lord promised to give to your ancestors. You will continue to live there while there is still a sky above the earth. 
Deuteronomy11:22 Be careful to obey these commands that I am giving to you. Love the Lord your God. Live in a way that pleases him. Be faithful to him. 
Deuteronomy11:23 If you do that, the Lord will chase out all those nations as you move into the land. They are greater and stronger than you are, but you will take the land from them." 
Deuteronomy11:24 Every piece of ground that you walk on will belong to you. The borders of your land will go from the desert in the south as far as Lebanon in the north. They will go from the Euphrates River in the east to the Mediterranean Sea in the west. 
Deuteronomy11:25 Nobody will be able to stop you. The Lord your God will cause everyone in the other nations to be afraid of you. They will shake with fear. He has promised to do that, everywhere that you go in the land." 
Deuteronomy11:26 Today I am telling you to choose. Do you want God to bless you? Or do you want God to curse you? 
Deuteronomy11:27 The Lord your God will bless you if you obey his commands that I am giving to you today. 
Deuteronomy11:28 But he will curse you if you refuse to obey his commands. If you turn away from him and you serve other gods that are new to you, he will curse you!" 
Deuteronomy11:29 When the Lord brings you into the land where you will live, do this: Speak aloud God's blessings from Mount Gerizim. Speak his curses from Mount Ebal." 
Deuteronomy11:30 You know where these mountains are. They are west of the Jordan River, in the land of the Canaanites who live in the Jordan Valley. They are near Gilgal town, where the oak trees of Moreh are." 
Deuteronomy11:31 Soon you will go across the Jordan River. You will take for yourselves the land that the Lord your God is giving to you. It will belong to you as your home. 
Deuteronomy11:32 When you are there, be careful to obey his laws and his teaching that I am giving to you today." 
Deuteronomy12:1 These are the laws and the rules that you must obey. Be careful to obey them when you live in the land that the Lord your God has given to you. He is the God that your ancestors worshipped. Obey these laws all the time that you live in that land. 
Deuteronomy12:2 You will chase out the nations who live there. Then you must destroy completely all the places where those people worship their gods. Those places are on the tops of mountains and hills, and under big green trees." 
Deuteronomy12:3 You must break into pieces their altars and stone pillars. Burn their Asherah poles. Knock down the images of their gods. Destroy those places so that nobody remembers the false gods. 
Deuteronomy12:4 Do not worship the Lord your God in the same way that those people worship their gods. 
Deuteronomy12:5 The Lord will choose one place from the land where all your tribes live. That is the place where people must go to worship him. That is his special home. 
Deuteronomy12:6 That is where you must take your burnt offerings and other sacrifices to offer to the Lord. Take your tithes and offerings to him there. Take the gifts that you have promised to give, and the gifts that you choose to give. Take the firstborn animals from your cows, sheep and goats." 
Deuteronomy12:7 You and your families will go there to meet with the Lord your God. You will be happy as you eat together there. You will enjoy the results of all your work, because the Lord has blessed you." 
Deuteronomy12:8 At this time, all of you now do what you think is right. But when you are in the land, you must worship God in a different way." 
Deuteronomy12:9 You have not yet reached the place where you can rest. That is in the land that the Lord your God is giving to you as your home. 
Deuteronomy12:10 But when you go across the Jordan River, that land will become your home. The Lord will protect you from all the enemies who are around you. You will live safely." 
Deuteronomy12:11 At that time, the Lord your God will choose one special place for his people to worship him. You must take there everything that I have told you. Take your burnt offerings and other sacrifices to offer to the Lord. Take your tithes and special offerings. Take the special gifts that you have promised to give to him. Take everything to the place that God will choose." 
Deuteronomy12:12 Go there to enjoy time with the Lord your God. Take with you your children and your servants. Also take with you the Levites who live in your towns. Remember that they have not received any land for themselves, as you have." 
Deuteronomy12:13 So be careful! Do not offer your burnt offerings in any place that you choose for yourself. 
Deuteronomy12:14 Only make offerings to the Lord in the place that he chooses. That will be in the land that belongs to one of your tribes. It is the place where you must do all the things that I am commanding you to do. 
Deuteronomy12:15 But you may kill your animals and eat the meat in any of the towns where you live. When the Lord your God blesses you and he gives you animals, you may eat them as often as you want. It is the same as if you are eating meat from deer. Anyone may eat it. That includes people who are clean and people who are unclean." 
Deuteronomy12:16 But you must not eat the blood of any animal. You must pour it on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy12:17 Do not eat any of your offerings to the Lord in the places where you live. Do not eat the tithes that you have taken from your grain, your new wine or your olive oil. Do not eat at home the firstborn animals from your cows, sheep or goats. Do not eat the gifts that you have promised, the gifts that you choose to give or any other special gifts." 
Deuteronomy12:18 You may only eat these offerings in the place that the Lord will choose as his special home. That is true for you, your children, your servants and the Levites who live in your towns. At that place, you should meet with the Lord your God and you should enjoy the results of all your work." 
Deuteronomy12:19 As long as you live in the land, be careful to take care of the Levites." 
Deuteronomy12:20 The Lord your God has promised to give you more and more land. When he does that, perhaps you will say, ‘I would like to eat some meat.’ Then you may eat as much meat as you like." 
Deuteronomy12:21 The place that God chooses as his special home may be far away from you. If it is, you may kill any of the animals that the Lord has given to you. You may eat the meat at your own town, in the way that I have told you." 
Deuteronomy12:22 You should eat them in the same way that you eat deer. People who are unclean may eat them, as well as people who are clean." 
Deuteronomy12:23 But never eat the animal's blood. The blood of an animal gives it life. You must not eat the life together with the meat! 
Deuteronomy12:24 You must not eat the blood. You must pour it on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy12:25 Do not eat it! Then you will be doing what the Lord says is right. You will enjoy a happy life and so will your children. 
Deuteronomy12:26 It is only the holy things that you must take to the place that the Lord will choose for himself. Those are the gifts and sacrifices that you are offering to him. 
Deuteronomy12:27 Offer the meat and the blood of your burnt offerings on the altar of the Lord your God. For the other sacrifices, you must pour out the blood beside the altar. But you may eat the meat." 
Deuteronomy12:28 Be careful to obey all these commands that I am giving to you. Then you will be doing things that the Lord your God says are good and right. You and your children will enjoy a happy life. 
Deuteronomy12:29 When you go into the land where the other nations live, the Lord your God will remove them. You will take their land and you will live on it." 
Deuteronomy12:30 But after the Lord has destroyed them, be careful! Do not do the same wrong things as they do. Do not try to worship their gods. Do not say, ‘How do the people of these nations worship their gods? I would like to do the same thing!’" 
Deuteronomy12:31 No! You must not worship the Lord your God in the same way that those people worship their gods. When they worship, they do wicked things that the Lord hates. They even burn their children with fire, to make sacrifices to their gods." 
Deuteronomy12:32 Be careful to do everything that I am telling you. Do not add anything to these commands. Do not remove anything from them. 
Deuteronomy13:1 One day, you may have a prophet among you who tells you what will happen in the future. He may have dreams about what will happen. He may promise to do miracles to show that he is right." 
Deuteronomy13:2 He may say that you should start to worship other gods that you did not know about before. The miracles may happen, as he promised," 
Deuteronomy13:3 but do not listen to that prophet's message. The Lord your God is using this person to test your thoughts. He wants to know if you really love him in everything that you think and everything that you do. 
Deuteronomy13:4 You must serve only the Lord your God and respect him with fear. You must obey his commands and serve him faithfully. 
Deuteronomy13:5 You must punish that false prophet with death. He has told you to turn against the Lord your God. The Lord rescued you from Egypt, where you were slaves. But the false prophet has tried to turn you away from the way of life that the Lord your God has commanded. So you must remove all evil things like that from among you." 
Deuteronomy13:6 Even someone in your own family may try to turn you away from the Lord. It may be your own brother, your son or your daughter. It may be your wife whom you love. It may be a friend that you like very much. They may say to you secretly, ‘We should worship other gods.’ Those are gods that you and your ancestors never knew about before." 
Deuteronomy13:7 They are gods that people who live around you may worship. They may be gods of people who live near to you. They may be gods of people who live anywhere on the earth. 
Deuteronomy13:8 But never agree with anyone who says that you should worship those gods. Do not even listen to him! Do not feel sorry for him. Do not try to protect him from punishment. 
Deuteronomy13:9 Instead, you must certainly kill him! You must be the first person to throw stones to kill him. Then everyone else must do the same thing." 
Deuteronomy13:10 You must throw stones at him until he dies. He tried to turn you away from the Lord your God. It was the Lord who rescued you from Egypt, where you were slaves." 
Deuteronomy13:11 When you punish the false prophet with death, all Israel's people will hear about it. They will be afraid. No one will do evil things like that again." 
Deuteronomy13:12 The Lord your God will give you towns to live in. When you are there, you may hear news of people who are causing trouble." 
Deuteronomy13:13 They may be turning the other people in their town away from the Lord. They may be saying, ‘We should worship other gods!’ Those are gods that you never knew about before." 
Deuteronomy13:14 Then you must check carefully that the news is true. You must discover whether people really have done this wicked thing in one of your towns. 
Deuteronomy13:15 If the news is true, you must attack that town. You must completely destroy it. Kill all the people and the animals." 
Deuteronomy13:16 You must put all the valuable things in a heap in the town's public place. Then burn down the whole town as an offering to the Lord your God. Leave the town as a heap of stones. Nobody must ever build it again. 
Deuteronomy13:17 You must not keep any of the valuable things for yourselves. They have been given to the Lord. If you destroy the whole town, the Lord will stop being angry. He will be kind to you and he will forgive you. He will cause you to grow into a big nation, as he promised your ancestors." 
Deuteronomy13:18 The Lord your God will bless you if you listen to what he says. You must obey all his commands that I am giving you today. You must do the things that he says are right. 
Deuteronomy14:1 You are people who belong to the Lord your God. When someone dies, you are sad. But do not cut your bodies. Do not cut off all the hair from the front of your head." 
Deuteronomy14:2 You are the Lord 's own special people. He has chosen you to belong to him. You are much more valuable to him than any other people in the whole earth. 
Deuteronomy14:3 Do not eat anything that God says is unclean. 
Deuteronomy14:4 You may eat the meat of these animals: cows, sheep, goats," 
Deuteronomy14:5 deer, wild goats, mountain goats, antelopes and wild sheep." 
Deuteronomy14:6 You may eat any animal with feet that have two separate parts. They must also bring their food back into their mouths and eat it again. 
Deuteronomy14:7 But you must not eat these animals: camels, wild rabbits and rock badgers. They eat their food a second time, but they do not have feet with two separate parts. For this reason they are unclean food for you." 
Deuteronomy14:8 You may not eat pigs, either. They have feet in two parts but they do not eat their food a second time. You must not eat any meat from these animals. You must not even touch their dead bodies." 
Deuteronomy14:9 You may eat any fish that has fins and scales. 
Deuteronomy14:10 But other things that live in the water do not have fins or scales. Those are not clean food for you. Do not eat them. 
Deuteronomy14:11 You may eat any clean bird. 
Deuteronomy14:12 But these birds you must not eat: eagles, vultures, kites, owls, hawks, falcons, buzzards, ostriches, seagulls, storks, herons, pelicans, cormorants, hoopoes and bats." 
Deuteronomy14:13  
Deuteronomy14:14  
Deuteronomy14:15  
Deuteronomy14:16  
Deuteronomy14:17  
Deuteronomy14:18  
Deuteronomy14:19 Some insects have wings but they walk on the ground. Insects like that are unclean food for you. You must not eat them. 
Deuteronomy14:20 But you may eat any clean insect that has wings. 
Deuteronomy14:21 You must not eat anything that you find dead already. You may give it to a foreign person who lives in any of your towns. He may eat it. You may give it to him or sell it to him. But you yourselves are special people who belong to the Lord your God. You must not cook a young goat in the milk from its mother. 
Deuteronomy14:22 You must keep safe a tenth part of all the crops that grow in your fields. You must be careful to do this every year. 
Deuteronomy14:23 Then take your tithe to the place that the Lord your God will choose as his special home. It will be a tenth part of your grain, your new wine, your olive oil and the firstborn animals from your cows, sheep and goats. Eat them there, at the Lord 's special home. Then you will learn to respect the Lord your God always." 
Deuteronomy14:24 But the Lord 's special place may be a long way from your home. If he has blessed you with a lot of things, they may be too heavy for you to carry all that way." 
Deuteronomy14:25 If that is true, you may sell your tithe. Then you may take the money carefully to the place that the Lord your God will choose." 
Deuteronomy14:26 When you arrive there, you can use the money to buy any food that you choose: cows, sheep, wine, beer or anything else. Then you and your family should eat it there. You should enjoy your time together at the Lord 's special home." 
Deuteronomy14:27 Do not forget to help the Levites who live in your towns. Remember that they have not received any land as you have. 
Deuteronomy14:28 Every third year, take the tithe of the food that you have grown in your fields that year. Store it in your town or your village." 
Deuteronomy14:29 Keep this food for the Levites, who have no land of their own. It is also for the foreign people, the widows, and the children who have no family. These people in your town can eat as much as they want. If you do that, the Lord your God will bless you in all your work." 
Deuteronomy15:1 At the end of every seven years you must remove the debts of people that you have lent money to. 
Deuteronomy15:2 This is how you must do it: Every person who has lent money to someone must remove that debt. He must not demand to get his money back from any other Israelite. It is the Lord 's time to remove debts. 
Deuteronomy15:3 You can demand to get your money back from a foreign person. But if you have lent money to another Israelite, you must forgive the debt." 
Deuteronomy15:4 The Lord will bless you in the land that he is giving you to live in. So there should be no poor people among you. 
Deuteronomy15:5 But you must always obey him completely. So be careful to obey all the commands that I am giving to you today. 
Deuteronomy15:6 For the Lord your God will bless you, as he has promised to do. You will lend money to the people of many other nations, but you will not borrow money from them. You will rule over many other nations, but they will not rule over you." 
Deuteronomy15:7 The Lord your God will bless you in the land that he is giving to you. But perhaps there will be a poor person among the Israelites in one of your towns. Then do not refuse to help him. Do not think only about yourself. 
Deuteronomy15:8 Instead, be generous. Lend him the money that he needs." 
Deuteronomy15:9 Be careful not to think this wicked thought: ‘The seventh year will happen soon. That is the year when I must forgive people's debts. So I will not lend money to people at this time.’ Do not be cruel like that to another Israelite who is poor. Do not refuse to lend him anything. He might complain about you to the Lord. Then the Lord would say that you are guilty of a sin. 
Deuteronomy15:10 Instead, you should certainly lend money to him. Do not feel upset about it. If you are generous, the Lord your God will bless you in everything that you do." 
Deuteronomy15:11 There will always be some poor people among you in the land where you are going. So I command you to be generous to other Israelites who are poor. Help them with the things that they need. 
Deuteronomy15:12 You may buy another Israelite to be your servant, a man or a woman. Let that servant work for you for six years. Then in the seventh year, you must let him go free." 
Deuteronomy15:13 When you let him go, you must not send him away with nothing to take with him." 
Deuteronomy15:14 Give him gifts of sheep, grain and wine. Be generous! Give him many good things, as the Lord has blessed you with good things." 
Deuteronomy15:15 Remember that you were once slaves in Egypt. But the Lord your God rescued you from there. This is why I am giving you this command today. 
Deuteronomy15:16 But perhaps your servant will say to you, ‘I do not want to leave you!’ He may say that because he loves you and your family. He enjoys his life with you." 
Deuteronomy15:17 If he says that, you must take a tool with a sharp point. Push it through his ear, into your door. After that, he will be your servant for his whole life. Do the same thing for any female servant who wants to stay with you." 
Deuteronomy15:18 Do not think that it will be difficult for you if he goes free. Remember that he has served you well for six years. He has been worth twice as much as a servant that you pay to do your work. The Lord your God will bless you in everything that you do. 
Deuteronomy15:19 You must keep separate every firstborn male animal that is born from your cows, sheep or goats. They belong to the Lord your God. Do not make these firstborn animals do any work for you. Do not cut off the wool from your firstborn sheep." 
Deuteronomy15:20 Each year, you and your family must take these animals to the place that the Lord your God will choose. Eat them there, at the Lord 's special home." 
Deuteronomy15:21 But if a firstborn animal is not perfect, you must not offer it as a sacrifice to the Lord your God. It must not be blind or have weak legs. It must not have anything wrong with it." 
Deuteronomy15:22 You may eat animals like that at home. It is the same as if you are eating meat from deer. Anyone may eat it. That includes people who are clean and people who are unclean. 
Deuteronomy15:23 But you must not eat the animal's blood. You must pour it on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy16:1 The month Abib is a special month for you. In this month, you must eat a meal to remember the Passover. Remember what the Lord your God did for you. In that month, he brought you out of Egypt during the night." 
Deuteronomy16:2 You must go to the special place that the Lord will choose for his people to worship him. There you must kill one of your animals as a sacrifice to remember the Passover. You may kill one of your cows or sheep. 
Deuteronomy16:3 At this feast, eat bread that you make without any yeast. For seven days, you must eat bread that you make without yeast. You ate that kind of bread when you had much trouble in Egypt. You had to leave Egypt in a hurry that night. You must eat that bread each year. Then you will always remember the day when you left Egypt." 
Deuteronomy16:4 During those seven days, no one may keep any yeast in their house. There must not be any yeast in the whole land. On the first day, you will kill your animal to eat in the evening. You must eat all the meat that same night, so that there is no meat left in the morning." 
Deuteronomy16:5 You must not kill the animal for the Passover sacrifice in any of the towns that the Lord your God gives to you. 
Deuteronomy16:6 You must go to the place that he will choose as his special home. You must kill the animal there, at sunset. That was the time of day when you came out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy16:7 Cook the meat and eat it in the place that the Lord your God will choose. The next morning, you may return to your tents." 
Deuteronomy16:8 For the next six days, you must eat bread that you make without yeast. On the seventh day, you must all come together to worship the Lord your God. You must not do any work on that day." 
Deuteronomy16:9 Count seven weeks from the first day that you bring in crops of grain from your fields. 
Deuteronomy16:10 Then eat the Feast of Weeks to worship the Lord your God. Bring the gifts that you want to offer to him. Bring gifts that show how much he has blessed you. 
Deuteronomy16:11 You and your family will be happy to worship the Lord your God, at the special place that he chooses. Enjoy time together with your children, your servants and the Levites who live in your town. Also join with the foreign people who live among you, with widows, and children who have no family. Worship God happily together." 
Deuteronomy16:12 Remember that you were once slaves in Egypt. So be careful to obey these commands. 
Deuteronomy16:13 When you have prepared the grain and the grapes from your fields, eat the Festival of Huts for seven days." 
Deuteronomy16:14 Enjoy the festival with your children, your servants and the Levites. Join with the foreign people who live among you, and also with the widows and the children who have no family." 
Deuteronomy16:15 Eat this feast to worship the Lord your God at the special place that he chooses. Do it for seven days. He will bless you in everything that you do, so that you grow plenty of food. So you should all enjoy this feast!" 
Deuteronomy16:16 Three times in every year, all your men must go to the place that the Lord your God will choose. They must go there for the Passover festival, the festival of Weeks and the festival of Huts. Each man must bring with him gifts to offer to the Lord." 
Deuteronomy16:17 Give to the Lord as much as you are able to. Your gifts may be large or small, as much as the Lord has blessed you." 
Deuteronomy16:18 Each tribe must choose judges and officers in every town that the Lord gives you. They must judge the people in a way that is fair. 
Deuteronomy16:19 Judges must do what is right for every person, rich or poor. They must not accept any bribes. A bribe may hide the truth even from a wise man. It can make honest people tell lies." 
Deuteronomy16:19 Judges must do what is right for every person, rich or poor. They must not accept any bribes. A bribe may hide the truth even from a wise man. It can make honest people tell lies." 
Deuteronomy16:20 Make sure that there is justice for everyone in the land that the Lord your God is giving to you. Then the land will belong to you and you will enjoy life in it. 
Deuteronomy16:21 When you build an altar to offer sacrifices to the Lord your God, do not put any Asherah pole there." 
Deuteronomy16:22 Do not put up any stone pillar as an idol. The Lord your God hates everything like that. 
Deuteronomy17:1 When you offer an animal as a sacrifice to the Lord your God, it must be perfect. Do not bring any sheep or bull that has something wrong with it. The Lord hates any gift like that." 
Deuteronomy17:2 The Lord your God will give you towns to live in. You may hear that a man or a woman who lives in one of your towns has done a bad thing. He has done a sin that is against the covenant of the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy17:3 He may have started to worship false gods that I have commanded you not to worship. Perhaps he worships the sun, the moon or the stars." 
Deuteronomy17:4 If you hear news like that, you must check the report carefully. If it is true that a wicked thing like that has happened in Israel," 
Deuteronomy17:5 you must punish that person. Take the man or woman who has done that wicked thing to the gate of the town. Then you must throw stones at that person to kill them. 
Deuteronomy17:6 But two or three people must agree about what the person has done. You must never kill anyone because of the words of only one person. 
Deuteronomy17:7 The people who saw the wicked act must throw the first stones to kill the person. Then everyone else must also throw stones. In that way, you must remove evil acts from among you." 
Deuteronomy17:8 It may be difficult for the judges in your towns to decide what is true. This may happen when one person has attacked or killed another person. It may happen when people cannot agree about some land. It may be anything that people in your towns are arguing about. If you do not know who is right, you must take those people to the place that the Lord your God will choose." 
Deuteronomy17:9 You must go to the Levite priests and to the judge who has authority at that time. Ask them to decide what is right and true. 
Deuteronomy17:10 When they decide, you must do what they tell you to do." 
Deuteronomy17:11 Accept their teaching. Agree with what they have decided is right. Obey their words completely. Do not try to do anything that is different. 
Deuteronomy17:12 Someone might be too proud to obey the priest who has authority as the Lord 's servant. He may not agree with what the judge says is right. You must punish any proud person like that with death. In that way you will remove evil things from Israel. 
Deuteronomy17:13 Then all the people will hear what has happened. They will be afraid. They will no longer be too proud to obey the judge. 
Deuteronomy17:14 You are going into the land that the Lord your God is giving to you. You will take it for yourselves to be your home. Then you may say, ‘The other nations around us have kings. We must also have a king to rule us.’" 
Deuteronomy17:15 If that happens, you must only accept a king that the Lord your God chooses. Choose a king from among your own people. Do not choose anyone who is not an Israelite." 
Deuteronomy17:16 A king must not get a lot of horses for himself. He must not send his people back to Egypt to buy more horses. The Lord has said to you, ‘Never return to Egypt for any reason!’" 
Deuteronomy17:17 A king must not marry many wives. They may turn his thoughts away from the Lord. He must not store a lot of silver and gold for himself. 
Deuteronomy17:18 When anyone starts to rule as king, he must copy this Law of God on a scroll. The scroll will be a copy of the one that belongs to the Levite priests." 
Deuteronomy17:19 He must keep this scroll with him all the time. He must continue to read it every day of his life. If he does that, he will learn to respect the Lord his God. He will learn to obey all the rules and commands of this Law." 
Deuteronomy17:20 If he does that, he will not become proud. He will not think that he is better than other Israelites. He will continue to obey the Lord 's commands. Then he and his descendants will rule Israel as kings for many years." 
Deuteronomy18:1 The priests and the whole tribe of Levi will have no land for themselves, as the other Israelite tribes do. Instead, they may eat the meat from the sacrifices that belong to the Lord." 
Deuteronomy18:2 They will receive no land among the other Israelites. The Lord himself is the one who gives them everything that they need. He has promised to do that for them. 
Deuteronomy18:3 When you bring a bull or a sheep as a sacrifice to the Lord, give the priests their part. You must give them the animal's shoulder, the meat from its face, and its stomach." 
Deuteronomy18:4 You must also give them the first part of your grain, your wine and your olive oil. Give them the first wool that you cut from your sheep." 
Deuteronomy18:5 Do this because the Lord your God has chosen the Levites to serve him from among all your tribes. He wants them and their descendants to be ready to serve him at all times, for ever." 
Deuteronomy18:6 Any Levite may choose to go to the place that the Lord will choose. He can leave the town where he lives, wherever it is in Israel." 
Deuteronomy18:7 He may go to serve the Lord his God. He may join the other Levites who are ready to serve the Lord at his special place. 
Deuteronomy18:8 A Levite may have sold some of his family's valuable things. He may keep that money and he may receive the same amount of food as the other Levites. 
Deuteronomy18:9 When you go into the land that the Lord your God is giving you, be careful! Do not learn to do the disgusting things that the nations who live there are doing." 
Deuteronomy18:10 Nobody among you must ever burn your child in a fire, as an offering. Nobody must use magic or other things to learn about future times. There must not be any magicians or diviners." 
Deuteronomy18:11 Never use magic to curse anyone. Never try to speak to the spirits of dead people or other spirits. 
Deuteronomy18:12 The Lord hates anyone who does these things. It is because of these disgusting things that the Lord will chase the other nations out of the land as you move in. 
Deuteronomy18:13 You must live in a completely right way that pleases the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy18:14 The people of the nations that you will chase away get help from magicians and diviners. But the Lord your God has commanded you not to do those things. 
Deuteronomy18:15 One day, the Lord your God will send to you a prophet like me. He will come from among your own people. You must listen to him." 
Deuteronomy18:16 Remember what happened when you all met together at Mount Sinai. You said to the Lord your God, ‘Please do not let us hear your voice again. Do not let us see this great fire again. If we do, we will die!’" 
Deuteronomy18:17 Then the Lord said to me, ‘The people have said the right thing." 
Deuteronomy18:18 I will send them a prophet who will be like you. He will be an Israelite. I will tell him what to say. Then he will tell the people everything that I command him to say. 
Deuteronomy18:19 He will speak on my behalf, so I myself will punish anyone who does not listen to his message." 
Deuteronomy18:20 A false prophet may say that he speaks with my authority when that is not true. Or he may say that he has a message from another god. You must punish a false prophet with death.’ 
Deuteronomy18:21 You may say to yourselves, ‘How can we know when a message has not come from the Lord?’" 
Deuteronomy18:22 A prophet may say that he speaks with my authority, and he may say what will happen. But if it does not happen, you will know that his message has not come from me. He has not spoken my message. That prophet has spoken his own ideas. So do not be afraid of him!" 
Deuteronomy19:1 The Lord your God will destroy the nations who now live in the land that he is giving to you. You will chase them out and you will live in their cities and in their houses. 
Deuteronomy19:2 Make the land into three separate regions. Then choose three special cities, one city in each region. Build good roads to each city so that people can easily travel to them. Then anyone who kills a person can run to one of these cities to be safe." 
Deuteronomy19:3  
Deuteronomy19:4 This is the rule when anyone has killed another person. If it was a mistake, he can run to a safe city. He can do that if he has killed someone that he did not already hate." 
Deuteronomy19:5 For example, two men may go to the forest to cut wood. As one man cuts wood with his axe, the metal part of the axe comes off. It goes through the air and it hits the other man. If it kills him, the killer can run to the nearest of the three cities. He will be safe there." 
Deuteronomy19:6 If there was no safe city near enough, the killer might not escape safely. The dead person's relative might chase him, catch him and kill him. But the killer did not deserve to die. He had made a mistake. He had killed someone that he did not already hate." 
Deuteronomy19:7 So I command you to choose three cities to be safe cities for yourselves. 
Deuteronomy19:8 The Lord your God promised your ancestors to give you more land to live in. When all that land belongs to you," 
Deuteronomy19:9 you must continue to obey all the commands that I am giving you today. You must continue to love the Lord your God and live in a way that pleases him. Then, when your land becomes bigger, you must choose three more cities to be safe cities." 
Deuteronomy19:10 You must not punish with death people who are not guilty. That would make you guilty yourselves. That must not happen in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. 
Deuteronomy19:11 But perhaps somebody does hate another person. He may hide himself so that he can catch his enemy. Then he may attack him and kill him. After that, he may run to one of the safe cities." 
Deuteronomy19:12 If he does that, the leaders of his own town must take him from there. They must bring him to the dead person's relative. He must die as his punishment." 
Deuteronomy19:13 Do not be sorry for him. You must punish murderers with death. Then Israel will not be guilty of evil acts. If you do that, everything will be well for you." 
Deuteronomy19:14 When you go to live in the land that the Lord your God is giving to you, each family will receive their piece of land. You must never move the stones that show the border of your neighbour's land. It has always belonged to them." 
Deuteronomy19:15 If only one person says that he has seen someone do something wrong, that is not enough. There must be at least two or three people who saw the sin. Then the judge may say that the person is guilty." 
Deuteronomy19:16 Somebody may accuse another person because he wants to hurt him. He tells lies against him. 
Deuteronomy19:17 Then both of them must stand in front of the judges that the Lord has chosen. Those are the priests and the judges who have authority at that time. 
Deuteronomy19:18 The judges must be careful to discover who is telling the truth. The person may be speaking lies against another Israelite to accuse him. 
Deuteronomy19:19 If he is telling lies, you must punish him in the same way that he wanted to punish the other Israelite. You must remove evil things like this from among yourselves." 
Deuteronomy19:20 Then everyone else will hear what has happened. They will be afraid to do any more evil things like that. 
Deuteronomy19:21 Do not be sorry for people who are guilty. Punish people as they deserve: a life for a life, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot." 
Deuteronomy20:1 Do not be afraid when you go out to fight a war against your enemies. You may see that their armies have more horses, chariots and soldiers than you have. Do not be afraid of them! Remember that the Lord your God is with you. He rescued you from Egypt." 
Deuteronomy20:2 As you prepare to fight a battle, the priest must come to speak to your soldiers." 
Deuteronomy20:3 He must say, ‘Israelites, listen to me! Today you will fight against your enemies. Do not be afraid. Be brave! Do not shake with fear because your enemy is so strong." 
Deuteronomy20:4 The Lord your God is going into battle with you. He will fight for you against your enemies. He will cause you to win.’ 
Deuteronomy20:5 Then the officers must say to the soldiers, ‘Has any of you built a new house but he has not yet asked God to bless it? If so, he may go home. If he does not, he may die in the battle. Then someone else will ask God to bless his home." 
Deuteronomy20:6 Has anyone planted a field with grapes but he has not yet picked any fruit? He also may go home. If he does not, he may die in the battle. Then someone else will enjoy the fruit." 
Deuteronomy20:7 Has anyone promised to marry a woman? If he has not married her yet, he may go home too. If not, he may die in the battle. Then another man will marry her.’" 
Deuteronomy20:8 Then the officers must also say to the soldiers, ‘Is any of you afraid? Does anyone not feel brave? He may go home. Then he will not cause other men to be afraid like him.’" 
Deuteronomy20:9 When the officers have finished speaking to the army, they must choose other officers to lead the groups of soldiers." 
Deuteronomy20:10 Before you start to attack a city, you must offer peace to the people who live there. Tell them what they must do to stop you attacking them." 
Deuteronomy20:11 If they agree, they will open the city's gates to let you go in. Then all the people in the city will become your slaves, to do hard work for you." 
Deuteronomy20:12 But they may refuse to agree. They may start to fight against you. If they do that, you must put your soldiers all around the city." 
Deuteronomy20:13 The Lord your God will give the city to you. Then you must kill all the men there. 
Deuteronomy20:14 But you can take for yourselves the women, the children, the animals and other valuable things in the city. You can take all these things from your enemies that God gives to you." 
Deuteronomy20:15 You must do this to all the cities that are far away from you. But it is different for the cities that belong to the nations of Canaan where you will live. 
Deuteronomy20:16 You will take for yourselves the cities in the land that the Lord your God is giving to you as your home. In those cities, you must kill everything that is alive, people and animals." 
Deuteronomy20:17 You must completely destroy all the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites. The Lord your God has commanded you to do this to the people of those nations." 
Deuteronomy20:18 If not, they would teach you all the evil things that they do to worship their gods. They would cause you to do bad things against the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy20:19 Perhaps you are preparing to attack a city. Your soldiers may have their camp around the city for a long time. If so, you must not cut down the fruit trees. Then you can eat the fruit from them. These trees are not people, like your enemies! So do not attack them!" 
Deuteronomy20:20 But you can cut down the other trees that do not provide any food. You can use the wood to make things that will help you to attack the city. You can do this until you go into the city and you take it for yourselves. 
Deuteronomy21:1 In the land that the Lord your God is giving to you, you may find someone's dead body lying in a field. Someone has killed him but you do not know who the murderer is." 
Deuteronomy21:2 Your leaders and your judges must then go to the field. They must measure how far the place is from the nearest towns. 
Deuteronomy21:3 Then the leaders from the town that is nearest to the body must take a young cow that has never done work on a farm. 
Deuteronomy21:4 They must lead the cow down to a valley where no one has ploughed the ground or planted seed. There must be a stream of water in the valley. There they must break the cow's neck. 
Deuteronomy21:5 The Levite priests must go there too. The Lord your God has chosen them to serve him and to ask him to bless his people. They also decide as judges what is right. 
Deuteronomy21:6 After the leaders of the town have broken the cow's neck, they must wash their hands over it." 
Deuteronomy21:7 Then they will say, ‘We did not kill this person. We did not see who killed him." 
Deuteronomy21:8 Please Lord, accept this animal from your people, Israel, that you have rescued. Do not say that we are guilty of this murder. This person did not deserve to die like this.’ When they do that, the Lord will accept their gift and he will forgive you." 
Deuteronomy21:9 In this way, you will not be guilty of the murder. You will remove this evil act from among you. You must do what the Lord says is right." 
Deuteronomy21:10 When you go to fight a battle against your enemies, the Lord your God will give you power over them. You will take some of them as prisoners." 
Deuteronomy21:11 You may see among them a beautiful woman that you want to take as your wife. 
Deuteronomy21:12 Then you must bring her into your home. She must cut the hair off her head. She must cut her fingernails. 
Deuteronomy21:13 She must change the clothes that she was wearing when you found her. Let her live in your house and weep for her parents for a whole month. Then you may have sex with her. You will be her husband and she will be your wife. 
Deuteronomy21:14 Later, you may not be pleased with her. If so, you must let her go wherever she wants. You must never sell her or make her become a slave. You must not do that, because you have made her have sex with you, as your wife." 
Deuteronomy21:15 A man may have two wives, but he may love only one of them. Each wife may give birth to a son. The firstborn son may be the son of the wife that he does not love." 
Deuteronomy21:16 But when the man shares his things with his children, he must promise this: After his death, the firstborn son will receive what he should have. The man may not choose to give the double share of his things to the son of the wife that he loves." 
Deuteronomy21:17 He must recognize that his firstborn son is the son of the wife that he does not love. This son was the first son born to that man. So he must receive the double share of his father's things. That is what God's Law says must happen. 
Deuteronomy21:18 Perhaps a man has a son who refuses to obey his parents. They punish him to teach him what is right, but he refuses to listen to them." 
Deuteronomy21:19 If so, his parents must take their son to the leaders at the city gate." 
Deuteronomy21:20 They must say to the leaders, ‘This is our son. He refuses to obey us. He does not do what we tell him. He only wants to do what will please himself. He drinks too much and he becomes drunk.’" 
Deuteronomy21:21 Then all the men of the city must throw stones at the son until he is dead. In this way, you must remove all evil things like that from among you. Then all Israel's people will hear about what has happened. They will be afraid." 
Deuteronomy21:22 A person may do an evil thing so that you punish him with death. If you have hung his dead body on a tree," 
Deuteronomy21:23 you must not leave it there during the night. Be careful to bury it on the same day that he died. If someone's body is hanging on a tree, it shows that God has cursed him. So do not leave it there. The Lord your God is giving the land to you so that it belongs to you. So do not let evil things spoil your land." 
Deuteronomy22:1 You may see your neighbour's cow or sheep that has become lost. If so, do not look the other way. You must catch the animal. You must take it back to your neighbour." 
Deuteronomy22:2 Perhaps the man does not live near you. Perhaps you do not know who the animal belongs to. If so, take the animal to your own home and keep it safe there. When the man comes to look for his animal, give it to him." 
Deuteronomy22:3 You must do the same thing if you find someone's donkey or clothes or anything else. You must not refuse to help. 
Deuteronomy22:4 Perhaps your neighbour's donkey or his cow has fallen on the road. If you see it there, do not look the other way. You must help the man to lift the animal so that it can stand." 
Deuteronomy22:5 A woman must not wear the same clothes that men wear. A man must not wear clothes that make him look like a woman. The Lord your God hates people who do this. 
Deuteronomy22:6 You may find a bird's nest beside the road. It may be in a tree or on the ground. If the mother bird is sitting on eggs or on young birds, you must not take the mother away from them." 
Deuteronomy22:7 You may take the young birds for yourself. But you must let the mother bird go free. If you do that, everything will be well with you. You will have a long life." 
Deuteronomy22:8 If you build a new house, you must make a wall around the edge of the flat roof. Then if someone falls off the roof and dies, you will not be guilty for his death." 
Deuteronomy22:9 You must not plant any other crops between the vines in your vineyard. If you do that, none of the food or the grapes will belong to you." 
Deuteronomy22:10 You must not tie an ox and a donkey together to pull a plough. 
Deuteronomy22:11 You must not mix wool and linen together to make your clothes. 
Deuteronomy22:12 You must fix tassels on the four corners of your coat. 
Deuteronomy22:13 Perhaps a man will marry a woman, and he has sex with her. Later he decides he no longer wants her to be his wife." 
Deuteronomy22:14 He may then tell lies against her to say that she is bad. He may say, ‘I married this woman, and I had sex with her. Then I discovered that she had already had sex before I married her.’" 
Deuteronomy22:15 If that happens, the woman's parents must bring the cloth that she slept on with her husband. They must take it to the leaders of the town to show them." 
Deuteronomy22:16 The woman's father must say to the leaders, ‘I gave my daughter to this man to be his wife. But now he does not like her." 
Deuteronomy22:17 He accuses her that she is bad. He says, “I discovered that your daughter had sex before I married her.” But look at her cloth. This shows that she had never had sex before.’ Then her parents must hold the cloth in front of the leaders of the town." 
Deuteronomy22:18 The leaders must then take hold of the man. They must punish him. 
Deuteronomy22:19 They must make the man pay 100 pieces of silver to the young woman's father. The man has told lies. He has accused a pure Israelite girl to say that she is bad. After that, she will continue to be his wife. He may never send her away as long as he lives." 
Deuteronomy22:20 But perhaps the husband has spoken the truth. Perhaps his new wife cannot show that she had not had sex before. 
Deuteronomy22:21 If so, the leaders must take her to the entrance of her father's house. The men of the town must throw stones at her there, until she dies. She has done a very bad thing that brings shame on Israel. She has had sex like a prostitute while she lived in her father's house. You must remove evil acts like this from among you." 
Deuteronomy22:22 You may discover a man who is having sex with another man's wife. If so, you must punish both the man and the woman with death. In this way, you will remove such evil acts from Israel." 
Deuteronomy22:23 Perhaps a man may meet a young woman in a town. She has already promised to marry another man, but the man has sex with her." 
Deuteronomy22:24 If so, you must take both of them to the gate of that town. You must throw stones at both of them there, until they die. The young woman is guilty because she did not shout aloud for help. They were in the town, so someone would have heard her. The man is guilty because he had sex with the future wife of another man. In this way, you will remove evil acts from among you." 
Deuteronomy22:25 But perhaps a man may meet a young woman in a field in the country. She has already promised to marry another man. But the man is stronger than her and he has sex with her. If that happens, only the man must die." 
Deuteronomy22:26 Do not punish the young woman. She does not deserve to die. The man's act is like a man who attacks and murders another person. 
Deuteronomy22:27 The man met the young woman in a field. When she shouted for help, nobody heard her because it happened in the country. There was no one there to rescue her." 
Deuteronomy22:28 Perhaps a man may meet a girl who has not had sex with anyone before. She has not yet promised to marry anyone. The man may be too strong and he has sex with her. 
Deuteronomy22:29 If that happens, the man must pay 50 pieces of silver to the girl's father. He must also marry the girl because he has had sex with her. He may never send her away as long as he lives." 
Deuteronomy22:30 A man must not marry a woman who was his father's wife. That would bring shame on his father. 
Deuteronomy23:1 Perhaps a man has sex parts that someone has destroyed or spoiled. That man cannot join with the Lord 's people when they meet together. 
Deuteronomy23:2 If someone was born when his parents were not properly married, he cannot join with the Lord 's people. His descendants may not meet with the Lord 's people to worship the Lord either. That will continue to the tenth generation of the man's descendants." 
Deuteronomy23:3 Ammonite and Moabite people also cannot join with the Lord 's people when they come together to worship him. Even the tenth generation of their descendants can never do this. 
Deuteronomy23:4 The people of those nations refused to help you when you were leaving Egypt. They did not give you food or water. Also, they paid Beor's son Balaam to curse you. He came from Pethor in Mesopotamia." 
Deuteronomy23:5 But the Lord your God refused to listen to Balaam. God refused to curse you. Instead, he blessed you. The Lord your God did that because he loves you." 
Deuteronomy23:6 You must never do anything to help these two nations. Do not let them live in peace. 
Deuteronomy23:7 But do not hate anyone from Edom. The Edomites have the same ancestor as you. Do not hate an Egyptian person. You once lived as foreigners in Egypt. 
Deuteronomy23:8 The third generation of their descendants can join with the Lord 's people when they meet together to worship him. 
Deuteronomy23:9 Your soldiers may be living in tents while they fight against your enemies. They must keep away from anything that makes them unclean. 
Deuteronomy23:10 While a man is asleep, semen may come from his sex part. That makes him unclean so he must go outside the camp. He must stay there all day." 
Deuteronomy23:11 In the evening, he must wash himself. At sunset he can return into the camp." 
Deuteronomy23:12 You must choose a special place outside the camp. Use that place as your toilet. 
Deuteronomy23:13 Always carry a small spade with your other tools. When you go to the toilet, dig a hole with your spade. Then bury your dung in it and cover it with earth." 
Deuteronomy23:14 For the Lord your God moves among you in your camp. He keeps you safe from your enemies so that you win against them. So make sure that your camp is a holy place. The Lord must not see anything that would bring shame on you. Do not make him turn away from you. 
Deuteronomy23:15 Someone's slave may escape from his master and come to you. If that happens, do not send him back to his master." 
Deuteronomy23:16 He can live anywhere among you. He may choose to live in any of your towns that he likes. Do not be cruel to him. 
Deuteronomy23:17 No Israelite man or woman must ever become a prostitute at places where people worship their gods. 
Deuteronomy23:18 You must not bring the money that people pay to these prostitutes into the Lord 's temple. Do not use it to offer a gift that you have promised to the Lord your God. He hates prostitutes, both men and women." 
Deuteronomy23:19 You may lend money or food or anything else to another Israelite. But do not ask him to give you back more than you lent to him. 
Deuteronomy23:20 You can ask a foreign person to pay back more, but not an Israelite. If you obey this command, the Lord your God will bless you. When you live in your new land, God will bless everything that you do." 
Deuteronomy23:21 If you promise to give something to the Lord your God, be careful to bring your gift soon. If you do not bring it, that is a sin. The Lord will certainly demand it from you." 
Deuteronomy23:22 You may choose not to promise any gift. That is not a sin. 
Deuteronomy23:23 But whatever you promise to do, you must be careful to do it. If you choose to promise a gift to the Lord your God, give it soon." 
Deuteronomy23:24 If you go into your neighbour's vineyard, you may eat some of the grapes. You may eat as many grapes as you want, but do not carry any away in a basket." 
Deuteronomy23:25 If you go into your neighbour's field of grain, you may eat some of it. You may pick some grain with your hands, but do not use a knife to cut it down." 
Deuteronomy24:1 Perhaps a man will marry a woman and then he discovers something that brings shame on her. So she does not please him any more. He must write a letter to say that they are no longer married. He gives the letter to his wife. Then he can send her away from his house. 
Deuteronomy24:2 After she has left his house, she might marry another man." 
Deuteronomy24:3 Later, her second husband may also not like her any more. So he also gives her a letter to finish the marriage. He sends her away from his house too. Or perhaps her second husband dies." 
Deuteronomy24:4 If that happens, her first husband must not marry her again. That is because she has had sex with another man. To marry her again would be a sin that the Lord hates. You must not do sins like that in the land that the Lord your God is giving to you as your new home." 
Deuteronomy24:5 When a man has just married, do not send him away to fight in the army. Do not make him work at jobs in other places. He should stay at home for one year. Then he will make his new wife very happy." 
Deuteronomy24:6 When you lend money to people, you may take something from them as a guarantee. But do not take the stones that they use to make grain into flour. Do not take either of the stones. People need both those stones to make food to stay alive. So do not take away their life." 
Deuteronomy24:7 A man might take hold of another Israelite and make him his slave. He might try to sell him as a slave. Anyone who does that must die. You must remove evil things from among you. 
Deuteronomy24:8 If you have leprosy, be very careful! Do everything that the Levite priests tell you to do. You must obey everything that I have commanded them." 
Deuteronomy24:9 Remember what the Lord your God did to Miriam after you left Egypt. 
Deuteronomy24:10 If you lend something to your neighbour you may take something from him as a guarantee. But do not go into his house to take it. 
Deuteronomy24:11 You must wait outside the house. Then your neighbour can bring out what he has chosen to give you. 
Deuteronomy24:12 If the person is poor, do not take his coat and keep it with you all night." 
Deuteronomy24:13 You must always give his coat back to him before sunset. Then he can sleep in it to keep himself warm. He will ask God to bless you because you have been kind. The Lord your God will know that you have done the right thing. 
Deuteronomy24:14 Do not be cruel to any poor or helpless person who works for you. Be kind to him, whether he is an Israelite or a foreigner who lives in one of your towns." 
Deuteronomy24:15 You must pay him for his work every day before sunset. Remember that he is poor. He needs the money to stay alive. If you do not pay him, he may complain against you to the Lord. The Lord would say that you are guilty of a sin." 
Deuteronomy24:16 You must not punish fathers with death for the sins that their children do. You must not punish children with death for the sins that their fathers do. Each person must die only because of his own sins. 
Deuteronomy24:17 Remember to be completely fair to foreigners and to children who have no family. If you lend money to a widow, do not take her coat as a guarantee." 
Deuteronomy24:18 Remember that you were slaves in Egypt and the Lord your God rescued you from there. That is why I am commanding you to do these things. 
Deuteronomy24:19 At harvest time, you might forget to bring in all the crops from your fields. Do not go back to pick up all the grain. Leave it there for foreigners, widows and children who have no family. If you do that, the Lord your God will bless you in all your work." 
Deuteronomy24:20 When you knock the olives off your trees, shake each branch only once. Leave the olives that remain for foreigners, widows and children who have no family." 
Deuteronomy24:21 When you pick your grapes, pick only once from each vine. Leave the grapes that remain for foreigners, widows and children who have no family." 
Deuteronomy24:22 Remember that you were slaves in Egypt. That is why I am commanding you to do all these things. 
Deuteronomy25:1 When there is an argument between two people, they must both go to the judges. Then the judges will decide which of the two people is right. They will decide the punishment for the guilty person." 
Deuteronomy25:2 The judge may decide that his officers should beat the guilty person as punishment. The judge will make him lie down on the ground. Then he will watch as his officers beat the guilty person. They will hit him as many times as he deserves because of his wicked act. 
Deuteronomy25:3 But they must not hit him more than 40 times as his punishment. If it is more than that, nobody would respect him any more." 
Deuteronomy25:4 Do not tie shut the mouth of your ox while it walks on your grain to prepare it for you. 
Deuteronomy25:5 Perhaps two brothers live together in the same place. One of the brothers may die before he has any son. If that happens, his widow must not marry anyone who does not belong to the family. Instead, the other brother must marry her. That is the right thing for him to do for his dead brother." 
Deuteronomy25:6 The first son that the widow gives birth to will be the son of her first husband. His family's name will not disappear from Israel. 
Deuteronomy25:7 But the man may not want to marry his brother's widow. If so, this is what the widow must do: She must go to the leaders when they meet at the town gate. She must say, ‘My dead husband's brother refuses to do his duty for me. He does not want his brother to have any descendants so that his family's name will continue.’" 
Deuteronomy25:8 Then the town's leaders must call the man to come to them. They must talk to him. Perhaps he will continue to say, ‘I do not want to marry her!’" 
Deuteronomy25:9 If that happens, his brother's widow must go near him, as the leaders watch. She must pull off one of his shoes and then she must spit in his face. She must say, ‘This is what we do to a man who will not give descendants to his dead brother!’" 
Deuteronomy25:10 After that, people will call that man's family, ‘the family of the man who lost his shoe.’" 
Deuteronomy25:11 Perhaps two men are fighting each other. The wife of one of them comes to help him. She tries to save him from his enemy who is attacking him. Perhaps she takes hold of the man's sex parts. 
Deuteronomy25:12 If she does that, you must cut off her hand as punishment. Do not be sorry for her." 
Deuteronomy25:13 Do not try to cheat people when you weigh or measure things. Do not carry with you two different stone weights, one light one and one heavy one." 
Deuteronomy25:14 Do not keep in your house two different bowls to measure things, one big one and one small one." 
Deuteronomy25:15 You must keep true and honest weights. You must have bowls that measure things correctly. If you do that you will live for a long time in the land that the Lord your God is giving to you. 
Deuteronomy25:16 The Lord your God hates anyone who cheats other people and is not honest. 
Deuteronomy25:17 Remember what the Amalekites did to you when you came out of Egypt. 
Deuteronomy25:18 They attacked you when you were tired and weak. They killed all the people who were walking slowly at the back of your group. They were not afraid of God. 
Deuteronomy25:19 But the Lord your God will chase away all your enemies. He will give you a safe place to rest in the land that he is giving to you as your new home. When he does that, do not forget to destroy all the Amalekites. Make sure that nobody in the whole world will remember them any more." 
Deuteronomy26:1 You will soon go into the land that the Lord your God is giving to you. It will belong to you as your home. 
Deuteronomy26:2 This is what you must do the first time that the land provides food for you: At harvest time, when you bring in your crops, put some in a basket. Take it to the special place that the Lord your God will choose for people to worship him." 
Deuteronomy26:3 Go to the priest who has authority at that time. Say to him, ‘Today, I say to the Lord our God that I am now living in the land that he promised to us. He made that promise to our ancestors.’" 
Deuteronomy26:4 Then the priest will take the basket from you. He will put it down in front of the altar of the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy26:5 Then you must say this, so that the Lord your God hears you: ‘My ancestor was an Aramean who moved from place to place. He went to Egypt to live there as a foreigner. At that time, his family was small. But while he lived in Egypt, his family became a great nation of many powerful people." 
Deuteronomy26:6 But the Egyptian people were cruel to us. They made us work very hard for them. 
Deuteronomy26:7 So we prayed to the Lord, the God of our ancestors. He heard our prayers. He saw that we were in trouble. He saw that we had to do very hard work for cruel people." 
Deuteronomy26:8 So the Lord used his great strength and power to bring us out of Egypt. He did powerful miracles which caused the Egyptians to be afraid. 
Deuteronomy26:9 Then he brought us to this place. He gave us this land where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone." 
Deuteronomy26:10 So now I am bringing the first food that has grown in my fields. You, Lord, have given it to me.’ Then you must put the basket down in front of the Lord 's altar. Worship him there." 
Deuteronomy26:11 In that way, you will enjoy a meal to say ‘thank you’ for all the good things that the Lord your God has given to you and your family. Share your meal with the Levites and the foreign people who live among you." 
Deuteronomy26:12 Every third year you must keep safe a tenth part of all your crops. In the third year, you must give that tithe to the Levites, the foreigners who live among you, widows and the children who have no family. Then everyone who lives in your towns can eat all the food that they need." 
Deuteronomy26:13 Then you can say to the Lord your God, ‘None of the tithe that belongs to you remains in my house. I have done what you commanded me to do. I have given it to the Levites, foreigners, widows and the children who have no family. I have not forgotten to obey your commands." 
Deuteronomy26:14 I have not eaten any of this special food when I was weeping for someone who had died. I did not touch any of it while I was unclean. I have not offered any of it to give honour to a dead person. I have obeyed you completely. I have done everything that you commanded me to do. 
Deuteronomy26:15 Please look down from your home in heaven and bless your people, Israel. Please bless the land that you have given to us. You promised our ancestors that you would do that. It is a land where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone.’" 
Deuteronomy26:16 Today, the Lord your God commands you to obey these laws and these rules. So be careful to obey them with all your mind and with all your strength." 
Deuteronomy26:17 Today, you have said clearly that the Lord is your God. You have agreed to live in a way that pleases him. You have agreed that you will obey his rules, his commands and his laws. You will do everything that he has told you to do." 
Deuteronomy26:18 Today the Lord has accepted you to be his own special people. He already promised that he would do that. As his people, you must obey all his commands." 
Deuteronomy26:19 If you do that, he will make you greater than all the other nations that he has made. Other nations will see that you are great. They will praise you and give you honour. You will be a nation that belongs to the Lord your God as his own special people. He has promised to do this." 
Deuteronomy27:1 Moses and the leaders of Israel said to the people, ‘Obey all these commands that I am giving you today." 
Deuteronomy27:2 You will soon go across the Jordan River and go into the land that the Lord your God is giving to you. When you are there, you must put up some large stones on Mount Ebal. Cover them with thick white paint." 
Deuteronomy27:3 Then write on them all these laws and teaching. You must do that when you go across the river into the land that the Lord your God is giving to you. It is a land where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone. He promised your ancestors that he would give it to you." 
Deuteronomy27:4 After you go across the Jordan River, you must put the stones on Mount Ebal. Cover them with white paint. Do as I am telling you today." 
Deuteronomy27:5 Then you must build an altar there to worship the Lord your God. Do not use iron tools to cut the stones for the altar. 
Deuteronomy27:6 Use whole stones that you find to build it. Then offer burnt offerings to the Lord your God on the altar. 
Deuteronomy27:7 You must also offer friendship offerings there. Eat them with joy as you meet with the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy27:8 Write all the words of these laws on the stones that you will put there. Be sure to write them very clearly.’ 
Deuteronomy27:9 Then Moses and the Levite priests said to all the Israelites, ‘Be quiet and listen carefully! Today, you have become the people who belong to the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy27:10 Obey him. Obey his commands and his rules that I am giving you today.’ 
Deuteronomy27:11 On the same day, Moses commanded the people," 
Deuteronomy27:12 ‘After you have gone across the Jordan River, these tribes must stand on Mount Gerizim: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph and Benjamin. They will bless the people." 
Deuteronomy27:13 These tribes must stand on Mount Ebal: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan and Naphtali. They will speak aloud God's curses.’" 
Deuteronomy27:14 The Levites will shout this with a loud voice to all the Israelites: 
Deuteronomy27:15 ‘God will curse anyone who makes any image of a god and who worships it secretly. The Lord hates all idols that people make with metal or with wood.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:16 ‘God will curse anyone who does not respect his parents.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:17 ‘God will curse anyone who moves the stones at the edge of his neighbour's land.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:18 ‘God will curse anyone who leads a blind person along the wrong path.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:19 ‘God will curse anyone who stops foreigners, widows or children who have no family from receiving justice.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:20 ‘God will curse any man who has sex with his father's wife. That would bring shame on his father.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:21 ‘God will curse any man who has sex with any animal.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:22 ‘God will curse any man who has sex with his sister, whether she is his father's daughter or his mother's daughter.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:23 ‘God will curse any man who has sex with his wife's mother.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:24 ‘God will curse anyone who murders anyone secretly.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:25 ‘God will curse anyone who receives a bribe to kill someone who has done nothing wrong.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy27:26 ‘God will curse anyone who refuses to obey all the words of this law.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Deuteronomy28:1 Today I am giving you the commands of the Lord your God. You must be careful to obey all of them completely. If you do that, he will make you greater than any other nation of people in the world." 
Deuteronomy28:2 If you obey the Lord your God, he will bless you in very many ways." 
Deuteronomy28:3 God will bless you in your cities and in your fields. 
Deuteronomy28:4 God will bless your children and the crops that you grow. Your cows and your sheep will have many babies. 
Deuteronomy28:5 God will bless you with lots of grain to make bread. 
Deuteronomy28:6 God will bless you in your homes and when you go outside. 
Deuteronomy28:7 When your enemies attack you, the Lord will knock them down. They will come from one direction to attack you, but they will run away from you in seven different directions!" 
Deuteronomy28:8 The Lord will bless you with lots of food to store. He will bless all the work that you do. He will bless you very much in the land that he is giving to you. 
Deuteronomy28:9 The Lord will continue to help you as his special people, as he has promised to do. But you must obey his commands. You must live in a way that pleases him." 
Deuteronomy28:10 If you do that, everyone in the world will see that you belong to the Lord. They will respect you with fear." 
Deuteronomy28:11 The Lord will give you many children. Your animals will have many babies. Your fields will give you a lot of food. The Lord will do this in the land that he promised your ancestors he would give you. 
Deuteronomy28:12 The Lord will send rain from the clouds where he stores it. He will cause the rain to fall at the time when the land needs it. He will bless all the work that you do. You will lend money to the people of many nations. But you will not need anyone to lend money to you. 
Deuteronomy28:13 The Lord will make you the leaders of other people. You will not have to follow at the back. You will become more powerful, not weaker. But you must obey the commands of the Lord your God. I am telling you today, you must be very careful to do that." 
Deuteronomy28:14 You must continue to obey all the commands that I am giving you today. Do not turn away from them to do anything else. Do not try to worship other gods. 
Deuteronomy28:15 But if you refuse to listen to the Lord your God, all these curses will happen to you. So be careful to obey all his commands and rules that I am giving you today. If you do not obey the Lord, these curses will happen to you:" 
Deuteronomy28:16 God will curse you in your cities and in your fields. 
Deuteronomy28:17 God will curse you so that you have no grain to make bread. 
Deuteronomy28:18 God will curse your children and the crops that you grow. Your cows and your sheep will not give birth to healthy babies. 
Deuteronomy28:19 God will curse you in your homes and when you go outside. 
Deuteronomy28:20 If you do evil things and you turn away from the Lord, he will curse you. He will confuse your thoughts in everything that you do. He will turn against you so that you quickly come to an end." 
Deuteronomy28:21 The Lord will make you very ill so that you do not become well again. He will completely remove you from the land that you are now going into. 
Deuteronomy28:22 The Lord will give you many kinds of disease. Your bodies will become weak and very hot. They will grow big and have a lot of pain. He will send great heat and there will be no rain. Your crops will all become spoiled. You will have all this pain until you die. 
Deuteronomy28:23 There will be no clouds in the sky above to give any rain. The ground under your feet will be as hard as iron. 
Deuteronomy28:24 There will be clouds of dust instead of rain. Dirt will come down from the sky until it has destroyed you. 
Deuteronomy28:25 The Lord will let your enemies knock you down. You will attack them from one direction, but you will run away from them in seven directions. When the people of other nations see what has happened to you, they will see it is a terrible thing." 
Deuteronomy28:26 Your dead bodies will be food for all the birds and the wild animals. No one will be there to chase them away. 
Deuteronomy28:27 The Lord will cause you to have boils on your bodies. That is what he did to the Egyptians. He will also cause you to have tumours and other bad diseases on your skin. You will not be able to get well again. 
Deuteronomy28:28 The Lord will make you crazy and blind. He will confuse your thoughts. 
Deuteronomy28:29 Even at midday, you will not see your way. You will be in the dark, like a blind person. You will not be able to go anywhere, whatever you do. Every day, people will be cruel to you. People will rob you. No one will be there to save you." 
Deuteronomy28:30 A woman will promise to marry you. But another man will take her and have sex with her. You will build a house, but you will not live in it. You will plant a garden, but you will never eat the fruit that grows in it." 
Deuteronomy28:31 Someone will kill your bull while you watch. But you will not eat any of the meat. As you watch, someone will take your donkey from you. He will never give it back to you. Your enemies will take your sheep for themselves. There will be no one there to help you." 
Deuteronomy28:32 Foreign people will take your children away to be their slaves. Every day, you will look for them to come back to you. But you will have no power to do anything." 
Deuteronomy28:33 Strangers will eat the food that you have worked hard to grow in your fields. People will be cruel to you for the rest of your lives. 
Deuteronomy28:34 When you see what is happening to you, you will become crazy." 
Deuteronomy28:35 The Lord will cause you to have boils on your knees and on your legs. They will give you much pain and they will never get better. They will soon cover your whole body, from your toes to the top of your head." 
Deuteronomy28:36 When you choose a king for yourselves, the Lord will send you and him away to a foreign country. It will be a place that neither you nor your ancestors have ever heard about. There you will serve gods that people have made from stone and wood." 
Deuteronomy28:37 The Lord will send you away to live among foreign people. When they see what has happened to you, they will all see that it is terrible. They will tell stories about you and they will laugh at you." 
Deuteronomy28:38 You will plant many seeds in your fields, but you will not have much food at harvest time. Instead, locusts will eat your crops." 
Deuteronomy28:39 You will plant vineyards to grow grapes. You will take care of the plants. But you will not drink any wine or bring in any grapes. Instead, worms will eat them." 
Deuteronomy28:40 Olive trees will grow everywhere in your land, but you will never use any oil from them. The olives will drop off the trees before they are ready to pick." 
Deuteronomy28:41 You will give birth to sons and daughters, but you will lose them. Enemies will take them away as prisoners." 
Deuteronomy28:42 Crowds of locusts will eat all your trees and the food from your fields. 
Deuteronomy28:43 Foreign people who live among you will become stronger and stronger. They will have more and more power over you, as you become weaker." 
Deuteronomy28:44 They will lend money to you, but you will not lend money to them. They will become your leaders. You will have to follow behind them." 
Deuteronomy28:45 All these curses will happen to you. They will be like an enemy that chases after you, catches you, and destroys you. That will happen to you, if you refuse to obey the Lord your God. If you do not obey his commands and his rules that he has given to you, these troubles will happen to you." 
Deuteronomy28:46 They will show that God is very angry with you. You and your descendants will know that for ever. 
Deuteronomy28:47 The Lord has given you many good things. But you have not agreed to serve the Lord your God with joy. 
Deuteronomy28:48 So you will serve your enemies that the Lord will send to attack you. You will be hungry and thirsty. You will be so poor that you do not even have clothes to wear. Your enemies will make you work so hard that they will destroy you. 
Deuteronomy28:49 The Lord will bring a nation from far away in the world to attack you. You will not understand their language. They will come quickly to attack you, like an eagle that comes down from the sky." 
Deuteronomy28:50 They will have angry faces. They will not be kind to anyone, even old people and young children." 
Deuteronomy28:51 They will eat your young animals and the crops from your fields, until they have destroyed you. They will not leave any food for you. You will have no grain, no wine, no olive oil, no young cows, no lambs. They will take everything from you until they destroy you." 
Deuteronomy28:52 They will attack all your towns, everywhere in the land that the Lord your God has given to you. They will knock down the strong walls that you thought would keep you safe. They will make their camps around your towns until they can take the towns for themselves." 
Deuteronomy28:53 When that happens, you will have no food, because your enemy's soldiers are all around your town. You will be so hungry that you eat your own children. Those are the sons and daughters that the Lord your God has given to you." 
Deuteronomy28:54 Even the best and kindest man among you will turn against his brother. He will turn against the wife that he loves and against his children who are still alive. 
Deuteronomy28:55 He will be so hungry that he eats meat from his own child, because there is no other food. He will not share it with any of his own family. He will do that because your enemy is so strong. The soldiers will stop any food from coming into your towns." 
Deuteronomy28:56 Even the best and kindest woman among you will turn against the husband that she loves. She will turn against her sons and daughters. She has been rich enough to have everything that she needs. 
Deuteronomy28:57 But now she will be so hungry that she will eat her new baby and the afterbirth. She will eat them secretly because there is nothing else for her to eat. She will not share anything with her family because your enemy will be too strong. The soldiers will stop any food from coming into your towns. 
Deuteronomy28:58 Be careful to obey all the words of this Law that I have written in this book. Always respect the Lord your God. Give him the honour that his great name deserves. 
Deuteronomy28:59 If you refuse to do that, the Lord will punish you and your descendants more and more. You will have lots of pain and many kinds of terrible disease that will not get better." 
Deuteronomy28:60 He will cause you to have all the same diseases that hurt the Egyptians and that made you very afraid. Those diseases will never leave you alone. 
Deuteronomy28:61 The Lord will also cause you to have many other terrible diseases. This book of God's Law does not say anything about those diseases, but they will destroy you completely." 
Deuteronomy28:62 At one time, you were as many people as the stars in the sky. But if you do not obey the Lord your God, only a few of you will remain alive." 
Deuteronomy28:63 At one time, the Lord was happy to help you with good things. He gave you many children. But if you do not obey him, he will be happy to destroy you. He will remove you from the land that will soon become your new home." 
Deuteronomy28:64 If that happens, the Lord will send you away to live among many other nations, all over the world. There you will worship other gods. They are gods that people have made from wood and from stone. Neither you nor your ancestors have ever known those gods before." 
Deuteronomy28:65 When you live among those nations, you will not be happy. You will not find a home where you can live safely in peace. The Lord will cause you to have troubles in your mind. Your eyes will not see well. You will be sad and upset." 
Deuteronomy28:66 You will be in danger of death all the time. You will be afraid in the day and at night. You will never know if you will live for one more day. 
Deuteronomy28:67 Every morning you will say, ‘I want the night to come quickly!’ And every evening you will say, ‘I want the morning to come quickly!’ You will say that because of all the terrible things that you see." 
Deuteronomy28:68 The Lord told you that you must never travel on the road back to Egypt. But he will send you back to Egypt in ships. In Egypt, you will try to sell yourselves to your enemies, as slaves. But no one will agree to buy you." 
Deuteronomy29:1 The Lord commanded Moses to tell the Israelites the words of his covenant with them. He made this covenant with them in the land of Moab. He had already made a covenant with them at Sinai. 
Deuteronomy29:2 This is what Moses said to all the Israelites when they met together: You have seen everything that the Lord did in Egypt. You saw how he punished Egypt's king, his officers and his whole country." 
Deuteronomy29:3 You saw the miracles which the Lord did to show his great power. 
Deuteronomy29:4 But until now the Lord has not let you understand why he did that. You saw and you heard those things, but you did not understand." 
Deuteronomy29:5 The Lord says, ‘I led you through this desert for 40 years. In all that time, your clothes and your shoes have not become spoiled." 
Deuteronomy29:6 You did not eat any bread. You did not drink any wine or beer. I helped you so that you would know that I am the Lord your God.’ 
Deuteronomy29:7 When we arrived here, King Sihon of Heshbon and King Og of Bashan attacked us. But we won against them." 
Deuteronomy29:8 We took their land and we gave it to the tribes of Reuben, Gad and half the tribe of Manasseh. That would be their new home." 
Deuteronomy29:9 So be careful to obey the words of this covenant. If you are faithful, everything that you do will go well." 
Deuteronomy29:10 The Lord your God sees all of you today as you stand here. He sees your leaders, your important men, your officers and all Israelite men." 
Deuteronomy29:11 He sees your children and your wives. He sees the foreign people who live among you and who cut wood and carry water for you. 
Deuteronomy29:12 You are standing here to agree to the covenant that the Lord your God is making with you today. You must promise to obey it. 
Deuteronomy29:13 By this covenant, the Lord says again today that you are his people and he is your God. He has already made that promise to you and to your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy29:14 The Lord our God is making this strong covenant with you people who are standing here with him today. But it is not only with you. He also makes this covenant with those people who are not here today. 
Deuteronomy29:15  
Deuteronomy29:16 You remember how we lived when we were in Egypt. You remember how we travelled through other countries as we came here. 
Deuteronomy29:17 You saw the useless gods that people of other nations worship. They worship idols that they make from wood, stone, silver and gold." 
Deuteronomy29:18 So be very careful that you do not turn away from the Lord our God to worship the gods of those nations. No man, woman, clan or tribe among you must ever want to do that. That would be like the root of a plant that gives fruits which are full of poison." 
Deuteronomy29:19 Nobody who hears the message of this covenant should think that they can go against it. Someone might say to himself, ‘I do not have to obey this covenant. I will be safe, whatever happens. God will still bless me.’ A person who thinks like that will bring trouble on everyone and on everything." 
Deuteronomy29:20 The Lord will never forgive that person. He will be very angry with him. The Lord will punish him in all the terrible ways that are written in this book. The Lord will destroy him completely so that his family name comes to an end. 
Deuteronomy29:21 The Lord will make that person separate from all the Israelite tribes and he will punish him very much. All the troubles that the Lord promises in this covenant will happen to that person, as this book of God's Law says." 
Deuteronomy29:22 Then, in future years, your descendants will see that many troubles have come to your land. They will see that the Lord has made people very ill. Foreign people who come from countries far away will also see what has happened." 
Deuteronomy29:23 The whole land will become spoiled with salt and sulphur. No one will plant seed in it, because nothing will grow there. Even grass will not grow on it. The land will be useless, like the cities that the Lord destroyed when he was very angry with them. Those cities were Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim." 
Deuteronomy29:24 The people of all other nations who see this will ask, ‘Why has the Lord destroyed this land? Why was he so angry with the people who lived there?’" 
Deuteronomy29:25 People will answer, ‘Because these people turned away from the covenant that the Lord had made with them. He is the God that their ancestors worshipped. He made a covenant with them when he brought them out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy29:26 But they turned away from him and they worshipped other gods. They served gods that they had not known before. They were gods that the Lord did not give them to worship. 
Deuteronomy29:27 So the Lord was angry with the people in this land. He punished them with all the terrible troubles that are written in this book. 
Deuteronomy29:28 That is why the Lord removed them from their land. He was very angry with them. So he threw them out to a foreign country. We see that they are still there today.’ 
Deuteronomy29:29 Some secret things belong to the Lord our God. He does not let us understand everything. But he has shown us many things clearly. Those things belong to us and to our descendants for all time. They are the words of his Law that we need to obey. 
Deuteronomy30:1 I have told you about the ways that God may bless you and the ways that he may curse you. If you do not obey the Lord your God, he will send you away to live in many foreign countries. When that happens, you will think about what I have said." 
Deuteronomy30:2 Then you and your children may decide to turn back to the Lord. You may choose to obey him completely in everything that you think and in everything that you do. That is what I am commanding you to do today. 
Deuteronomy30:3 If you do that, the Lord your God will bring you back home and he will forgive you. He will turn to help you again. He will bring you back from the countries where he sent you to live." 
Deuteronomy30:4 He will bring back even those of you who live in countries that are very far away. You will all come back to live together again. 
Deuteronomy30:5 He will bring you back to the land that belonged to your ancestors. It will belong to you as your home. He will help you even more than he helped your ancestors. He will make you more in number than your ancestors were. 
Deuteronomy30:6 The Lord your God will change you so that you want to serve him. He will do that for your descendants too. Then you will love him completely in everything that you think and in everything that you do. You will continue to live in your land. 
Deuteronomy30:7 When that happens, the Lord your God will punish your enemies with all these terrible troubles, instead of you. He will punish the people who hate you and do cruel things to you." 
Deuteronomy30:8 You will turn back to the Lord. You will obey all his commands that I am giving you today. 
Deuteronomy30:9 The Lord your God will cause all your work to go very well. He will give you many children. Your animals will give birth to many babies. Lots of crops will grow in your fields. The Lord will be happy to help you again, as he was happy to help your ancestors." 
Deuteronomy30:10 But you must obey his commands and his rules that are written in this book of his Law. You must turn back to him. You must serve him in everything that you think and in everything that you do. 
Deuteronomy30:11 The command that I am giving you today is not too difficult for you. It is not too far away from you. 
Deuteronomy30:12 God does not keep it in heaven. So you do not have to ask, ‘Who will go up to heaven to find it and bring it down to us? Who will explain it to us so that we can obey it?’" 
Deuteronomy30:13 It is not far away across the sea. So you do not have to ask, ‘Who will go across the sea to bring it to us? Who will explain it to us so that we can obey it?’" 
Deuteronomy30:14 No! God's message is very near to you. It is in your mouth and in your mind. So you must do what it teaches you to do. 
Deuteronomy30:15 Look! You must choose between the things that I am offering you today. You may choose to have life and many good things. Or you may choose to have death and many troubles. 
Deuteronomy30:16 I am commanding you today to love the Lord your God. Live in a way that pleases him. Obey his commands, his rules and his laws. If you do that, you will live. You will become a nation of many people. The Lord your God will bless you in the land that you are going into as your new home." 
Deuteronomy30:17 But you will have trouble if you turn away from God and you do not obey him. If you decide to serve other gods and to worship them," 
Deuteronomy30:18 you will certainly come to an end. After you go across the Jordan River, you will not live very long in that land. That is what I am telling you today." 
Deuteronomy30:19 Today, I want the sky and the earth to hear what I have said to you. I have told you what you may choose. You may choose life or death. You may choose the Lord to bless you or to curse you. Choose life today, so that you and your descendants will live!" 
Deuteronomy30:20 Yes, love the Lord your God. Obey him and serve him faithfully. He is the one who gives you life. He will let you live for a long time in the land that he is giving to you. That is the land that he promised to your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy31:1 Then Moses went out and he spoke to all the Israelites. 
Deuteronomy31:2 He said to them, ‘I am now 120 years old. I can no longer continue to lead you. The Lord has told me that I will not go across the Jordan River." 
Deuteronomy31:3 But the Lord your God himself will go across the river in front of you. He will destroy the nations who live in that land. Then you will live there instead of them. Joshua will lead you across the river, as the Lord has said." 
Deuteronomy31:3 But the Lord your God himself will go across the river in front of you. He will destroy the nations who live in that land. Then you will live there instead of them. Joshua will lead you across the river, as the Lord has said." 
Deuteronomy31:4 The Lord will do to those nations the same things that he did to Sihon and to Og, the Amorite kings. He destroyed them and their land." 
Deuteronomy31:5 The Lord will give you power over them. Then you must do to them everything that I have told you to do. 
Deuteronomy31:6 Be strong and be brave! Do not be afraid of those people, because the Lord your God goes with you. He will always be there to help you. He will never leave you.’" 
Deuteronomy31:7 Then Moses called Joshua to come. While all the Israelites listened, Moses said this to Joshua: ‘Be strong and very brave! You will go with these people into the land that the Lord promised to give to their ancestors. You will give them the land which will be their new home." 
Deuteronomy31:7 Then Moses called Joshua to come. While all the Israelites listened, Moses said this to Joshua: ‘Be strong and very brave! You will go with these people into the land that the Lord promised to give to their ancestors. You will give them the land which will be their new home." 
Deuteronomy31:8 The Lord himself goes in front of you. He will always be with you, to help you. He will never leave you. So do not be afraid. Be brave!’" 
Deuteronomy31:9 Moses wrote down all the rules of God's Law. He gave them to the Levite priests who carry the Lord 's Covenant Box. He also gave them to the leaders of the Israelites. 
Deuteronomy31:10 Then Moses said to them, ‘You must read this Law to all the Israelites. Read it every seven years at the Feast of Huts, in the year when you forgive people's debts. At that time all the Israelites will go to the place that the Lord your God will choose. When they meet there to worship the Lord, they must listen to this Law." 
Deuteronomy31:11  
Deuteronomy31:12 Bring all the men, women and children together. Also bring the foreign people who live in your towns. They must all hear God's Law as it is read to them. Then they can learn to respect and obey the Lord your God. They will be careful to obey all the teaching of his Law." 
Deuteronomy31:13 Their children will hear this Law for the first time. They will learn to respect and obey the Lord your God. You must do this for as long as you live in the land. You will soon go across the Jordan River to live there.’ 
Deuteronomy31:14 The Lord said to Moses, ‘You will soon die. Bring Joshua with you to the Tent of Meeting. When you meet with me there, I will give Joshua authority to be the leader of my people.’ So Moses and Joshua went to meet the Lord at his special tent." 
Deuteronomy31:14 The Lord said to Moses, ‘You will soon die. Bring Joshua with you to the Tent of Meeting. When you meet with me there, I will give Joshua authority to be the leader of my people.’ So Moses and Joshua went to meet the Lord at his special tent." 
Deuteronomy31:15 The Lord appeared in a pillar of cloud. The cloud was above the door of the tent. 
Deuteronomy31:16 The Lord said to Moses, ‘You will soon die. After you die, the people will soon go away from me. They will start to worship foreign gods of the land where they are going. They will turn against me. They will not obey the covenant that I made with them." 
Deuteronomy31:17 When that happens, I will be very angry with them. I will leave them. I will refuse to help them until they are destroyed. Many bad things will happen to them so that they are in great trouble. Then they will say, “These bad things have happened to us because our God is no longer with us.”" 
Deuteronomy31:18 But at that time I will certainly refuse to help them. That is because of all the wicked things that they will have done. They will start to worship other gods. 
Deuteronomy31:19 Now write down this song that I will give to you. Teach the Israelites to sing it. Its words will show them that they are guilty because they have not obeyed me. 
Deuteronomy31:20 I will take them into this land, where there is plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone. It is the land that I promised to give to their ancestors. When they live there, they will eat as much food as they want. They will be fat and healthy. But then they will start to worship other gods. They will turn against me. They will not obey the covenant that I made with them." 
Deuteronomy31:21 Many bad things will happen to them so that they are in great trouble. Then this song will show them that they are guilty. Their descendants will never forget it. Even now, I know what they are thinking. I know what they want to do, even before I take them into the land that I have promised to them.’" 
Deuteronomy31:22 So Moses wrote down this song on that same day. He taught it to the Israelites. 
Deuteronomy31:23 Then the Lord made Joshua, the son of Nun, the new leader. He said to Joshua, ‘Be strong and very brave! You will lead the Israelites into the land that I have promised to give them. I will be with you to help you.’" 
Deuteronomy31:23 Then the Lord made Joshua, the son of Nun, the new leader. He said to Joshua, ‘Be strong and very brave! You will lead the Israelites into the land that I have promised to give them. I will be with you to help you.’" 
Deuteronomy31:24 Moses finished writing all the words of God's Law in a book. 
Deuteronomy31:25 Then he said to the Levites who carried the Lord 's Covenant Box," 
Deuteronomy31:26 ‘Take this book of God's Law. Put it next to the Covenant Box of the Lord your God. It must remain there, so that the Israelites will know when they are guilty." 
Deuteronomy31:27 I know that they are a proud people who do not want to obey me. All the time that I have been living among them, they have turned against the Lord. After my death, they will turn against him even more!" 
Deuteronomy31:28 Now bring to me all the leaders and officers of your tribes. I want to tell them about all these things. And I want the sky and the earth to hear what I will say to them. 
Deuteronomy31:29 I know that, after my death, you will do more and more wicked things. You will turn away from the good things that I have commanded you to do. In future days, you will do wicked things against the Lord. Because of that, you will have great trouble. You will make the Lord angry because of the things that you do.’" 
Deuteronomy31:30 Then Moses spoke the words of this song, from the beginning to the end. All the Israelites met together and they listened to him." 
Deuteronomy32:1 Sky and earth, listen to my words! Hear what I am saying!" 
Deuteronomy32:2 My teaching will be like the rain that falls. My messages will help the people who hear them, as rain helps new grass to grow." 
Deuteronomy32:3 I will praise the Lord 's name. Everyone must know that our God is very great! 
Deuteronomy32:4 He is the strong Rock where we can be safe. Everything that he does is perfect. He only does what is right and fair. We can trust him to be faithful. 
Deuteronomy32:5 But you, his people, have not served him faithfully. Because of your sins, you cannot continue to be his children. You have turned against him. You enjoy doing bad things." 
Deuteronomy32:6 You are fools who do not understand what is right. You should not do these things against the Lord. He is your Father, the one who created you. He made you become a strong nation." 
Deuteronomy32:7 Remember what happened a long time ago. Think about the lives of your ancestors. Ask your father or the old men. They will tell you what happened in the past. 
Deuteronomy32:8 The Most High God gave land to be the home of each nation. When he made people into separate groups, he decided where their borders should be. There was an angel in heaven to take care of each group." 
Deuteronomy32:9 But the Lord himself takes care of his own people. Jacob's descendants are his special people. 
Deuteronomy32:10 The Lord found them in a desert place. It was a place where strong winds blew and nobody lived. He took care of them and he kept them safe. He protected them, like someone protects their own eyes." 
Deuteronomy32:11 The Lord took care of his people, like an eagle takes care of its babies. As an eagle flies with its babies on its back, the Lord helped his people to be safe." 
Deuteronomy32:12 The Lord alone was a guide for his people. He needed no foreign god to help him. 
Deuteronomy32:13 The Lord helped them to travel over the high places in the land. He fed them with food from the fields. He made them strong with honey from the rocks. He gave them olive oil from trees among the rocks. 
Deuteronomy32:14 Their cows and their goats gave them plenty of milk and butter. Their lambs, sheep and goats became fat, so they ate the best meat. They ate the best bread from their wheat. They drank the best wine from their grapes." 
Deuteronomy32:15 The Israelites became rich and fat. They turned against God. They were full of good food, but they turned away from God. He was the one who made them. He was the strong Rock who kept them safe. But they no longer respected him." 
Deuteronomy32:16 They worshipped foreign gods. So the Lord became angry and jealous. They made idols which he hated. 
Deuteronomy32:17 They offered sacrifices to demons, instead of to God. They worshipped new gods which they had not known before. Your ancestors had never respected those gods." 
Deuteronomy32:18 You forgot about your strong Rock, the God who gave you life." 
Deuteronomy32:19 When the Lord saw this, he turned away from them. His sons and daughters had made him angry." 
Deuteronomy32:20 He said, ‘I will not continue to help them. I will see what happens to them when I leave them alone. They are children who do not obey me. They have not served me faithfully." 
Deuteronomy32:21 They have made me jealous as they serve false gods. They have made me angry as they worship useless idols. So I will make them jealous as I help a useless nation. I will make them angry as I bless a foolish nation. 
Deuteronomy32:22 I will become so angry that I punish them very much. I will destroy them like a hot fire. It will be like a fire that reaches deep down into the place of dead people. It will destroy the ground and everything that grows on it. It will burn deep down to the foundations of the mountains. 
Deuteronomy32:23 I will cause them to have many kinds of trouble. I will attack them like a soldier who shoots all his arrows. 
Deuteronomy32:24 They will become weak and hungry. They will have bad diseases that give them much pain. I will cause wild animals to attack them. Snakes will bite them and they will die. 
Deuteronomy32:25 If they go out of their homes, their enemies will kill them. If they stay at home, they will die from fear. Young men and young women will die. Babies and old men will also die." 
Deuteronomy32:26 I wanted to remove my people completely, so that nobody would ever remember them." 
Deuteronomy32:27 But then their enemies would boast. They would not understand. They would say, “We have destroyed these people with our own strength! The Lord has not done this!” ’" 
Deuteronomy32:28 Israel is a nation without wisdom. They do not understand what will happen to them. 
Deuteronomy32:29 If they were wise, they would understand. They would know what would happen to them in the end." 
Deuteronomy32:30 One man can chase away 1,000 of my people! Two men can chase away 10,000 of them! How can that happen? God, their strong Rock, has left them. The Lord has given their enemies power over them." 
Deuteronomy32:31 The gods of our enemies are not strong like our Rock. Even our enemies know that their own gods are weak. 
Deuteronomy32:32 Our enemies are like grapes full of poison. They are like grapes that have grown in the fields of Sodom and Gomorrah. 
Deuteronomy32:33 The wine from their grapes kills people, like dangerous poison from snakes." 
Deuteronomy32:34 The Lord says, ‘I will not forget to punish Israel's enemies. I have already decided what I will do, and I will do it!" 
Deuteronomy32:35 When the right time comes, I will punish them as they deserve. They will suddenly fall and great trouble will quickly destroy them.’" 
Deuteronomy32:36 At that time, the Lord will bring justice for his people. He will forgive his servants. He will rescue them when he sees that they are weak, and very few of them remain, as slaves or free people." 
Deuteronomy32:37 Then the Lord will ask his people, ‘Why could your gods not help you? Those were the gods that you thought would keep you safe." 
Deuteronomy32:38 You fed them with the best part of your sacrifices. You let them drink the wine from your offerings. So they should be there to help you! They should keep you safe! 
Deuteronomy32:39 Understand the truth! I alone am God. There is no other god as well as me. I can kill and I can give life. I can hurt people and I can make them well again. Nobody can stop me doing what I choose to do. 
Deuteronomy32:40 I lift up my hand to heaven and I make this strong promise: “I promise you this, as surely as I live for ever:" 
Deuteronomy32:41 I will make my sword very sharp. It will move like lightning as I hold it in my hand. I will punish my enemies as they deserve. I will pay back everyone who hates me. 
Deuteronomy32:42 My arrows will have blood all over them. My sword will cut into the bodies of my enemies. Everyone that I take hold of will die. I will cut off the heads of their leaders.” ’ 
Deuteronomy32:43 So you people of other nations, join with God's people to praise him! He will punish those who have killed his servants. He will punish all his enemies. But he will forgive the sins of his people, and he will make their land clean again." 
Deuteronomy32:44 Moses went and he spoke all the words of this song to the Israelites. He did this together with Joshua, son of Nun." 
Deuteronomy32:44 Moses went and he spoke all the words of this song to the Israelites. He did this together with Joshua, son of Nun." 
Deuteronomy32:45 When Moses had finished speaking all these words," 
Deuteronomy32:46 he said to the people, ‘Remember carefully the message that I have spoken to you today. You must teach these words to your children. They must learn to obey all the words of God's Law." 
Deuteronomy32:47 These are not just useless words. This is a message that gives life! If you obey it, you will live for many years in the land on the other side of the Jordan River. That is the land that will be your new home.’" 
Deuteronomy32:48 On the same day, the Lord said to Moses," 
Deuteronomy32:49 ‘Go up into the hill country of Abarim in Moab's land. Climb Mount Nebo where you can see Jericho city on the other side of the river. Look at the land of Canaan. I am giving this land to the Israelites as their new home. 
Deuteronomy32:50 You will die on Mount Nebo, as your brother Aaron died on Mount Hor." 
Deuteronomy32:51 Both of you refused to obey me at the waters of Meribah Kadesh, in the Zin Desert. You did not show the Israelites that you respected me as God." 
Deuteronomy32:52 So you will not go into the land that I am giving to the Israelites. You will only see it from far away.’ 
Deuteronomy33:1 Before his death, God's servant Moses spoke this blessing to all the Israelites." 
Deuteronomy33:2 He said this: ‘The Lord came from Sinai. He appeared to his people like the sun that rises over the hills of Edom. He shone on his people from Mount Paran. Thousands of angels came with him. In his right hand, he held his Law that burned with fire." 
Deuteronomy33:3 Yes, the Lord loves his people. He takes care of all his holy people. They sit near to him and they listen to his teaching." 
Deuteronomy33:4 Moses gave us the Lord 's teaching. It is very valuable to us, the descendants of Jacob." 
Deuteronomy33:5 When the leaders of the people and all the tribes met together, the Lord became king of the Israelites." 
Deuteronomy33:6 I pray this for the tribe of Reuben: May they continue to live and have many descendants. 
Deuteronomy33:7 I pray this for the tribe of Judah: Lord, please listen to their prayers for help. May they join again with the other tribes. Please make them strong, so that they can fight against their enemies." 
Deuteronomy33:8 I pray this for the tribe of Levi: Lord, your Urim and Thummim belong to your faithful servants, the Levites. You tested them at Massah. You argued with them at the springs of water at Meribah." 
Deuteronomy33:9 The Levites left their own families so that they could serve you well. They obeyed your word. They were faithful to your covenant. 
Deuteronomy33:10 They teach your rules and your laws to Jacob's descendants, the Israelites. They offer incense to you, as a sweet smell. They burn offerings on your altar." 
Deuteronomy33:11 Lord, please bless their work. May everything that they do give you pleasure. Knock down anyone who attacks them. Destroy all their enemies completely." 
Deuteronomy33:12 I pray this for the tribe of Benjamin: The Lord loves the tribe of Benjamin. They will live with him and they will be safe. The Lord protects them all the time. He keeps them near to him. 
Deuteronomy33:13 I pray this for the tribe of Joseph: Lord, please bless their land. Send rain from the sky above, and springs of water from under the ground." 
Deuteronomy33:14 May the sun give them a good harvest of food, with the best crops every month." 
Deuteronomy33:15 May they have a harvest of good fruits from the mountains and hills that have been there since long ago. 
Deuteronomy33:16 Please fill their land with many good things. Lord who appeared in the burning bush, please be kind to them. Please bless Joseph's descendants. He became a leader, separate from his brothers. May this blessing be like a crown on his head!" 
Deuteronomy33:17 Joseph is as strong as a bull. He has horns like a wild ox. Those two horns are the armies of Ephraim and Manasseh! With them, he attacks other nations. He chases them to the edges of the world." 
Deuteronomy33:18 I pray this for the tribes of Zebulun and Issachar: Be happy, Zebulun's people, as you travel far from home. Be happy, Issachar's people, as you live in your homes." 
Deuteronomy33:19 They will call other people to come to their mountain. They will offer the right sacrifices there. They will become rich from their work on the seas, and from things that are hidden in the sand on the shore." 
Deuteronomy33:20 I pray this for the tribe of Gad: Praise the Lord, who will give more land to Gad's people! Gad lives there like a hungry lion. He will tear off the arm or the head of his enemies." 
Deuteronomy33:21 He has chosen the best part of the land for himself. When Israel's leaders met together, Gad's tribe received the land that a leader deserves. Gad's people obeyed the Lord 's good laws. They obeyed the Lord 's commands for Israel." 
Deuteronomy33:22 I pray this for the tribe of Dan: Dan's tribe is like a young lion. They jump out from Bashan to attack their enemies. 
Deuteronomy33:23 I pray this for the tribe of Naphtali: The Lord has blessed Naphtali's tribe very much. He has been very kind to them. Land in the west and in the south will belong to them. 
Deuteronomy33:24 I pray this for the tribe of Asher: May the Lord bless Asher's tribe more than the other tribes. May their brothers be pleased with them. May Asher's people be rich enough to wash their feet in olive oil. 
Deuteronomy33:25 They will use iron and bronze to make the gates of their towns strong. May they be strong for as long as they live. 
Deuteronomy33:26 Israelites, there is no god like your God. He rides across the sky to help you. He travels with great authority on the clouds." 
Deuteronomy33:27 He is the God who lives for ever. He is the safe place where you can hide. His strong arms are always there, to hold you safely. He will chase away your enemies as you attack them. He says to you, “Destroy them!”" 
Deuteronomy33:28 So Israel's people can now live safely. Jacob's descendants have a safe place to live. They have a land that will give them grain and wine. Rain falls from the sky to make the ground wet. 
Deuteronomy33:29 Israelites, you are very happy people! There is no other nation like you. The Lord himself has rescued you. He is the one who keeps you safe, like a soldier's shield. He is like a sword that you use to win against your enemies. Your enemies will fall down with fear in front of you. You will walk all over them.’" 
Deuteronomy34:1 Then Moses went up from Moab's desert land. He climbed up Mount Nebo to the top of Mount Pisgah. Jericho city was on the other side of the Jordan River. The Lord showed him the whole land, from the region of Gilead to Dan in the north." 
Deuteronomy34:2 He saw all the land that would belong to Naphtali, Ephraim, Manasseh and Judah, as far as the Mediterranean Sea in the west." 
Deuteronomy34:3 He saw the Negev Desert in the south. He saw the valley that goes from Jericho as far as Zoar. Jericho is called ‘The city of palm trees’. 
Deuteronomy34:4 Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘This is the land that I promised to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I told them that I would give it to their descendants. Now I have let you see the land, but you will not go across the river into it.’" 
Deuteronomy34:5 So Moses, the Lord 's servant, died there in Moab. The Lord had said that this would happen." 
Deuteronomy34:6 The Lord buried Moses in a valley in Moab, near the town of Beth-Peor. But even today, no one knows the place where God buried him." 
Deuteronomy34:7 Moses was 120 years old when he died. But he could still see well. His body was still strong. 
Deuteronomy34:8 The Israelites wept for 30 days because of Moses' death. They wept in Moab's desert land until the time for them to be sad came to an end. 
Deuteronomy34:9 Moses had already chosen Nun's son, Joshua, to take his place as the leader of the Israelites. So the Lord had filled Joshua with wisdom. The Israelites listened to Joshua. They obeyed the commands that the Lord had given to Moses." 
Deuteronomy34:9 Moses had already chosen Nun's son, Joshua, to take his place as the leader of the Israelites. So the Lord had filled Joshua with wisdom. The Israelites listened to Joshua. They obeyed the commands that the Lord had given to Moses." 
Deuteronomy34:10 There has never been another prophet in Israel like Moses. The Lord spoke to him, face to face." 
Deuteronomy34:11 Moses did the miracles that the Lord had sent him to do in Egypt. Those miracles showed the Lord 's power to Pharaoh and his officers, and to all the people in his country." 
Deuteronomy34:12 No other prophet has shown such great power and authority for all the Israelites to see. 
Joshua1:1 The Lord 's servant, Moses, had died. Then the Lord spoke to Joshua, son of Nun, who had helped Moses in his work." 
Joshua1:2 The Lord said to Joshua, ‘Moses, my servant, is dead. Now you and all these people must get ready to go across the Jordan River. Lead the people of Israel into the land that I am giving to them." 
Joshua1:3 I have given to you every part of the ground that you walk on. I promised Moses that I would do this. 
Joshua1:4 You will have all the land from the desert in the south to the Lebanon mountains in the north. It will be from the Euphrates River to the Mediterranean Sea on the west. You will have all the land of the Hittite people. 
Joshua1:5 No one can stop you from taking this land as long as you live. As I was with Moses, I will always be with you. I will never leave you alone." 
Joshua1:6 Be strong and do not be afraid. You will lead these people to take the land. That is the land that I promised to give to their ancestors. 
Joshua1:7 Be strong and do not be afraid. Be very careful to do all the things that Moses commanded you to do. Then everything will go well with you, everywhere that you go." 
Joshua1:8 You must keep on speaking about the words of God's Law. Think about what it says, all the time. Be careful to obey it. Then you will do well, and you will win." 
Joshua1:9 Remember that I have told you this: Be strong and do not be afraid. Do not be weak but be brave. I, the Lord your God, will be with you, everywhere that you go.’" 
Joshua1:10 So Joshua commanded the leaders of the people," 
Joshua1:11 ‘Go through all the places where the people live. Tell them to get food ready for a journey. In three days, you will go across the Jordan River. You will begin to take the land for yourselves. This is the land that the Lord your God is ready to give to you.’" 
Joshua1:12 Joshua said to the tribes of Reuben, Gad and half the tribe of Manasseh," 
Joshua1:13 ‘Remember what Moses, the Lord 's servant, told you. The Lord your God is giving you a place as your home to live safely. He has given this land to you." 
Joshua1:14 Your wives, children and animals can stay in this land that Moses gave to you, on the east side of the Jordan River. But your strong men must go across the river, with their weapons. They must go in front of the other Israelite tribes. You must help them" 
Joshua1:15 until the Lord gives them a place to rest, as he has already given to you. When all the other tribes are safe in the land, you may return to the land east of the Jordan. Moses gave this land to you.’" 
Joshua1:16 The people said to Joshua, ‘We will do whatever you tell us. And we will go wherever you send us." 
Joshua1:17 As we always obeyed Moses, so we will obey you. The Lord your God was with Moses. So we pray that the Lord will be with you too." 
Joshua1:18 If anyone turns against you and he does not obey your commands, we will make sure that he dies. You must be very strong and brave.’" 
Joshua2:1 Then Joshua sent two men to go out from Shittim. He sent them in secret to see what the land was like. He told them, ‘Go! Look at all the land. Look very carefully at Jericho city.’ When they came to Jericho city, they arrived at the house of a prostitute. Her name was Rahab. They stayed there." 
Joshua2:2 Some people told the king of Jericho, ‘Look! Some Israelite men have come here tonight to see what our land is like.’" 
Joshua2:3 So the king of Jericho sent a message to Rahab. He said, ‘Bring out the men who are staying in your house. They have come secretly to see what all our land is like!’" 
Joshua2:4 But Rahab had hidden the two men. She replied, ‘Yes, some men did come to me. I did not know where they had come from." 
Joshua2:5 When it was nearly time to close the gate of the city for the night, they left. I do not know where they went. If you chase after them quickly, you may catch them.’" 
Joshua2:6 But Rahab had taken the men up to the roof. She had hidden them under some straw that she had put there. 
Joshua2:7 So the king's officers went out of the city to try to find the two Israelite men. They went along the road to the Jordan River, to the place where the road goes across the river. As soon as they had left, people shut the city gate." 
Joshua2:8 Rahab went up to the roof of her house. She spoke to the men as they prepared to sleep. 
Joshua2:9 She said to them, ‘I know that the Lord has given this land to you. Everyone here is afraid of you Israelites. Everyone who lives in this land is very frightened." 
Joshua2:10 We heard how the Lord caused the water of the Red Sea to become dry. In that way he brought you out of Egypt. We heard what you did to Sihon and Og, the two kings of the Amorites. We heard how you destroyed them completely on the east side of the Jordan River." 
Joshua2:11 When we heard what you had done, we were very frightened. We know that we are not strong enough to fight against you because the Lord, your God, is God. He rules everything in heaven and on earth." 
Joshua2:12 Now, please use the Lord 's name to make a strong promise. I have been kind to you. So promise me that you will be kind to my family. Show me that you will certainly do what you have promised." 
Joshua2:13 When you attack this city, do not kill my family. Save the lives of my father, my mother, my brothers and sisters, and all their families.’" 
Joshua2:14 The men replied, ‘We promise to do that. If anyone kills you or your family, may we die too! Do not tell anyone about us. When the Lord gives us this land, we will be kind to you. We will save your lives.’" 
Joshua2:15 So Rahab put a rope out through the window of her house. (The house that she lived in was part of the city wall.) The men climbed down the rope. 
Joshua2:16 Rahab told them, ‘Go to the hills. The men who are chasing you will not find you there. Hide there for three days until they return to this city. Then you can go back to your people.’" 
Joshua2:17 The men said to her, ‘If you do what we say, we will do what we have promised." 
Joshua2:18 We will soon attack this land. So tie this red string in the window that we came through. Bring your father, your mother, your brothers and sisters and all your family into your house." 
Joshua2:19 If any of them leaves your house, they may die. If that happens, we will not be guilty. We will only be guilty if our soldiers hurt anyone who is in your house." 
Joshua2:20 But if you tell anyone about us, we do not have to do what we have promised to you.’" 
Joshua2:21 Rahab said, ‘I agree with what you have said.’ She sent the men away. When they had gone, she tied the red string in her window." 
Joshua2:22 The two Israelite men went into the hills and they hid there. The king's officers looked along the road for them for three days. They did not find them, so they returned to Jericho." 
Joshua2:23 Then the two men came down from the hills and they went across the Jordan River. They went back to Joshua. They told him everything that had happened. 
Joshua2:24 They said to him, ‘We are sure that the Lord has given us the whole land. All the people there are very frightened of us.’" 
Joshua3:1 Early the next morning, Joshua and all the Israelites left Shittim. They put up their tents beside the Jordan River. They waited to go across the river." 
Joshua3:2 Three days later, the Israelite leaders went to every tent." 
Joshua3:3 They commanded the people, ‘The Levite priests will carry the Covenant Box of the Lord your God. When you see them, you must leave here and you must follow them." 
Joshua3:4 They will show you the way to go because you have never been here before. But do not go too near to the Covenant Box. Stay about 1,000 metres behind it.’" 
Joshua3:5 Joshua said to the people, ‘Make yourselves ready to serve the Lord as his holy people. Tomorrow, the Lord will do great miracles among you.’" 
Joshua3:6 He said to the priests, ‘Pick up the Covenant Box, and carry it in front of the people.’ So they picked it up, and they went on in front of the people." 
Joshua3:7 Then the Lord said to Joshua, ‘Today I will begin to make all the Israelite people respect you. They will know that I am with you, in the same way that I was with Moses." 
Joshua3:8 The priests that are carrying the Covenant Box must go to the shore of the Jordan River. Tell them to go into the water and to stand there.’ 
Joshua3:9 Joshua said to the Israelites, ‘Come here and listen to the words of the Lord your God." 
Joshua3:10 The God who lives for ever is with you. He will certainly chase the Canaanites, Hittites, Hivites, Perizzites, Girgashites, Amorites and Jebusites out from this land. Then you will have their land. The Lord will show you that he will certainly do this." 
Joshua3:11 Look now! The Covenant Box of the Lord of all the earth will go into the Jordan River in front of you. 
Joshua3:12 Now choose 12 men, one from each tribe of Israel's family." 
Joshua3:13 Watch the priests who are carrying the Covenant Box. As soon as their feet touch the water of the river, you will see that the water stops running. It will rise up like a wall.’" 
Joshua3:14 So the Israelite people prepared to leave their tents. The priests carried the Covenant Box towards the Jordan River. The people followed them. 
Joshua3:15 It was the time of the harvest and there was a lot of water coming down the river. But when the priests reached the shore of the river with the Covenant Box and their feet touched the water," 
Joshua3:16 the water stopped. It stopped a long way up the river, at a town called Adam. That is near Zarethan. The water going down to the Salt Sea stopped completely. So the people went across the river near Jericho city." 
Joshua3:17 The priests stood in the middle of the river on dry ground, with the Lord 's Covenant Box. While they stood there, all the Israelite people walked across the river on dry ground. In this way, the whole nation arrived on the other side of the river." 
Joshua4:1 When the whole Israelite nation had gone across the Jordan River, the Lord spoke to Joshua." 
Joshua4:2 He said, ‘Choose 12 men from the people, one from each tribe." 
Joshua4:3 Tell them, “Pick up 12 stones from the middle of the river. Take them from the place where the priests are standing. Carry the stones with you to the shore. Put them in the place where you stay tonight.” ’" 
Joshua4:4 So Joshua called the 12 men that he had chosen, one from each Israelite tribe." 
Joshua4:5 He said to them, ‘Go into the middle of the river, beyond the Lord 's Covenant Box. Each of you must pick up a stone and put it on his shoulder. There will be one stone for each of the Israelite tribes." 
Joshua4:6 The heap of stones will help you to remember what happened today. In future years, your children will ask you, “What do these stones mean?”" 
Joshua4:7 Then you will tell them that the water in the Jordan River stopped where the Lord 's Covenant Box was. When the priests carried the Covenant Box into the river, the water stopped. These stones will help the people of Israel to remember this for ever.’" 
Joshua4:8 So the 12 men obeyed Joshua's command. They took 12 stones from the middle of the Jordan River, as the Lord had told Joshua. There was one stone for each Israelite tribe. They carried the stones to the place where the people had put their tents. They put the stones down there." 
Joshua4:9 Joshua also made a heap of 12 stones in the middle of the Jordan River. He put them in the place where the priests with the Covenant Box had stood. Those stones are still there today. 
Joshua4:10 The priests had carried the Covenant Box into the middle of the river. They stood there while the people did everything that the Lord had told Joshua. That is what Moses had also told Joshua. The people went across the river quickly. 
Joshua4:11 As soon as everybody was on the other side, the priests also took the Covenant Box to the other side. The people watched them as they did this." 
Joshua4:12 The tribes of Reuben, Gad and half the tribe of Manasseh led the people across. They were all ready to fight, as Moses had told them." 
Joshua4:13 About 40,000 men who had weapons went across to the flat land near Jericho. They marched past the Lord 's Covenant Box." 
Joshua4:14 That day the Lord caused all the Israelite people to respect Joshua. They respected him all his life, as they had respected Moses." 
Joshua4:15 Then the Lord said to Joshua," 
Joshua4:16 ‘Tell the priests who are carrying the Covenant Box to come up out of the Jordan River.’ 
Joshua4:17 So Joshua told the priests, ‘Come up out of the Jordan.’" 
Joshua4:18 So the priests came up from the middle of the river. They were carrying the Lord 's Covenant Box. As soon as their feet touched the dry ground on the shore, the water of the Jordan ran again. There was so much water that it made a flood, like before." 
Joshua4:19 On the tenth day of the first month, the people left the shore of the Jordan River. They put up their tents at a place called Gilgal. That was on the east side of Jericho city." 
Joshua4:20 At Gilgal, Joshua made a heap with the 12 stones that they had taken out of the Jordan River." 
Joshua4:21 He said to the Israelite people, ‘In future years, your children will ask you, “What do these stones mean?”" 
Joshua4:22 Then you must tell them, “We Israelites went across the Jordan River on dry ground.”" 
Joshua4:23 Yes, you have seen what the Lord your God has done. He made the Jordan River become dry, so that you could go across it. That was like he did to the Red Sea, so that we could go across it when we left Egypt." 
Joshua4:24 The Lord has done this so that all the nations of the world can see how powerful he is. He did it so that you would always obey him, the Lord your God.’" 
Joshua5:1 Many people heard how the Lord had caused the Jordan River to become dry. This included all the Amorite kings on the west side of the Jordan River, and all the Canaanite kings who lived near the sea. They heard how the Lord had made the river become dry until all the Israelites had gone across to the other side. So the kings became very afraid of the Israelite people. They felt too weak to fight against them." 
Joshua5:2 The Lord said to Joshua at that time, ‘Make knives of stone and circumcise the Israelite men.’" 
Joshua5:3 So Joshua made the knives and he circumcised the men at Gibeath Haaraloth. 
Joshua5:4 This is why Joshua had to circumcise them: All the men who were old enough to fight when they came out of Egypt had now died. They died in the desert as they travelled to Canaan. 
Joshua5:5 All those men who came out of Egypt had already been circumcised. But all the sons who were born on the journey through the desert had not been circumcised. 
Joshua5:6 The Israelites had travelled in the desert for 40 years. But all the men who were old enough to fight when they left Egypt had now died. This happened because they had not obeyed the Lord. The Lord had promised to give them the land of Canaan, a land where there is plenty of food and drink. But he made a strong promise that those men would not see that land, because they had turned against him." 
Joshua5:7 Now Joshua circumcised their sons, who had taken their place. Their fathers had not circumcised them while they travelled in the desert." 
Joshua5:8 All of the Israelite men were circumcised. Then they stayed there in Gilgal until they were strong again. 
Joshua5:9 The Lord said to Joshua, ‘This shows that you are no longer ashamed to be slaves, as you were in Egypt. Today I have taken away your shame.’ So they called that place Gilgal, and it still has that name." 
Joshua5:10 The Israelite people ate the Passover meal on the evening of the 14th day of that month. They did this while they were at Gilgal, near Jericho city." 
Joshua5:11 The next day they ate food that had grown in Canaan. For the first time, they ate flat bread and grain that they cooked on a fire." 
Joshua5:12 The manna that they had been eating no longer appeared. The Israelite people never ate manna again. Now they could eat the food that was grown in Canaan. 
Joshua5:13 While Joshua was near Jericho, a man appeared to him. Joshua looked up and there he was! He stood in front of Joshua with a sword in his hand. Joshua went towards him. He asked the man, ‘Are you here to help us, or to help our enemies?’" 
Joshua5:14 The man answered, ‘Neither. I am the captain of the Lord 's army. Now I am here!’ Joshua fell on the ground to worship the man. He said, ‘Sir, I am your servant. Tell me what I should do.’" 
Joshua5:15 The captain of the Lord 's army said, ‘Remove your shoes from your feet. You are standing on holy ground.’ Joshua did that." 
Joshua6:1 The people of Jericho had shut the gates of their city to make it safe. No one could go in or out of the city. 
Joshua6:2 The Lord said to Joshua, ‘I will soon give Jericho to you. I will put its king and all its brave soldiers under your power." 
Joshua6:3 You and all your soldiers must march round the city once each day, for six days." 
Joshua6:4 Seven priests will walk in front of the Covenant Box. They will carry trumpets as they walk. On the seventh day, you and your soldiers must march round the city seven times. At the same time, the priests will blow into their trumpets." 
Joshua6:5 Then they will make one long loud noise with their trumpets. As soon as you hear this, all the soldiers must give a loud shout. Then the city walls will fall down. The whole army will go straight into the city.’" 
Joshua6:6 Joshua called the priests to come to him. He told them, ‘Pick up the Lord 's Covenant Box. Seven priests must march in front of it. They must hold seven trumpets, one each.’" 
Joshua6:7 Then Joshua told the people to start marching round the city. A group of soldiers should march in front of the Lord 's Covenant Box. 
Joshua6:8 Joshua finished speaking to the people. Then the seven priests carrying their trumpets marched in front of the Covenant Box. They made a noise on their trumpets as the Covenant Box followed them. 
Joshua6:9 While the priests made a noise on the trumpets, some soldiers marched in front of them. Another group of soldiers followed behind the Covenant Box. The trumpets were making a noise all this time." 
Joshua6:10 But Joshua had said to the people, ‘Do not shout or speak aloud. Do not say anything until I tell you. When the right day comes, I will tell you, “Now shout aloud to attack!” When I tell you that, then shout!’" 
Joshua6:11 Joshua made them march round the city once with the Lord 's Covenant Box. Then they returned to their tents, and slept there that night." 
Joshua6:12 Joshua got up early the next morning, and the priests picked up the Lord 's Covenant Box again." 
Joshua6:13 The seven priests who carried the trumpets marched in front of the Covenant Box. They were making a noise with their trumpets. One group of soldiers marched in front of the priests. Another group of soldiers marched behind the Covenant Box. The trumpets made a noise all the time. 
Joshua6:14 That is how they marched round the city on the second day. They marched round once and then they returned to their tents. They did the same thing for six days. 
Joshua6:15 On the seventh day, they got up at dawn again. They marched round the city as they had done before. But this time they did it seven times." 
Joshua6:16 The seventh time, the priests made a long, loud noise on their trumpets. Joshua told the people, ‘Shout aloud to attack! The Lord has given the city to you!" 
Joshua6:17 The city and everything that is in it belongs to the Lord, so destroy it all. Only the prostitute Rahab and all the people who are with her in her house will live. This is because she hid the two men that we sent." 
Joshua6:18 Be careful! Do not take for yourselves the valuable things that belong to the Lord. If you do that, you will cause bad trouble to come to the whole Israelite army. The Lord will destroy us all." 
Joshua6:19 Everything that is made from silver, gold, bronze and iron belong to the Lord as his holy things. You must store them with his other valuable things.’" 
Joshua6:20 When the trumpets made a noise, all the people gave a loud shout to attack the city. When they did this, the walls of the city fell down. All the soldiers went up into the city. They went straight in and they took the city for themselves." 
Joshua6:21 They destroyed everything that lived in the city, as a gift to the Lord. With their weapons, they killed men and women, young people and old people, as well as cows, sheep and donkeys." 
Joshua6:22 Joshua said to the two men that Rahab had hidden, ‘Go into her house. Bring her out, with all her family who are there with her. That is what you promised to do for her.’" 
Joshua6:23 So the young men who had been to look at the city went to her house. They brought out Rahab and her whole family. That was her father and her mother, and her brothers and all who belonged to her. They took them to a place that was near the Israelite tents." 
Joshua6:24 Then they burned the whole city and everything that was in it. They stored the gold, silver, bronze and iron things with the Lord 's valuable things." 
Joshua6:25 But Joshua kept Rahab safe, as well as her family and everyone who belonged to her. Rahab had hidden the men that Joshua sent to find out about Jericho city. Because she did that, her family still lives among the Israelites, even today." 
Joshua6:26 At that time, Joshua made a strong promise. He said, ‘If anyone tries to build Jericho city again, the Lord will punish him as a guilty man. When he starts to build, his oldest son will die. When he puts up the city's gates, his youngest son will die.’" 
Joshua6:27 So the Lord was with Joshua to help him. Joshua became famous everywhere in the land. 
Joshua7:1 The Israelites did not obey what Joshua had said about the valuable things that belonged to God. Achan took some of these things for himself. He was Carmi's son, who was the son of Zimri, who was the son of Zerah. They belonged to the tribe of Judah. The Lord was very angry with the Israelites." 
Joshua7:2 Joshua sent some men to go from Jericho to Ai. That is a city near to Beth Aven, and east of Bethel. He said to the men, ‘Go up and look at the land near there secretly.’ So the men went to Ai to see what they could discover." 
Joshua7:3 The men came back and they said to Joshua, ‘There are not many men in Ai. Do not send our whole army to attack it. 2,000 or 3,000 men will be enough to take the city.’" 
Joshua7:4 So about 3,000 Israelite men went to attack Ai. But the men of Ai made them run away." 
Joshua7:5 They chased the Israelites away from the gate of the city and they killed about 36 Israelite soldiers. They chased them down the hill as far as Shebarim. They killed the Israelites as they ran down the hill. When the people of Israel heard this, they became very frightened." 
Joshua7:6 Joshua was so upset that he tore his clothes. He fell with his face to the ground in front of the Lord 's Covenant Box. He stayed there until evening time, together with the Israelite leaders. They all put dirt on their heads." 
Joshua7:7 Joshua said, ‘ Almighty Lord, why did you ever bring us over the Jordan River? Did you bring us here so that the Amorites could destroy us? It would have been better for us to stay on the other side of the Jordan!" 
Joshua7:8 Now our army has had to run away from our enemies! Lord, there is nothing more for me to say!" 
Joshua7:9 The Canaanites and the other tribes who live in this land will hear about what has happened. They will come to attack us and they will completely destroy us all. If that happens, nobody will ever respect your great name again!’" 
Joshua7:10 The Lord said to Joshua, ‘Stand up! Why are you lying there on the ground?" 
Joshua7:11 Israel has done a bad thing. They have not obeyed the command of the covenant that I made with them. They have taken for themselves some of the valuable things that belong to me. They have taken them and they have tried to deceive me. They have hidden them among their own things. 
Joshua7:12 That is why the Israelites are running away from their enemies. They themselves must now be destroyed because they belong to me. If you want me to continue to help you, you must destroy everything that belongs to me. You should not have taken those valuable things for yourselves." 
Joshua7:13 So stand up now! Tell the people to make themselves clean. Make yourselves ready! Tomorrow you will come to stand in front of me. I, the Lord God of Israel tell you, “Israelite people, you have kept some of the things that I told you to destroy. You will not win against your enemies until you have removed those things!”" 
Joshua7:14 In the morning, tell the Israelites to come to me, one tribe at a time. I will choose one tribe. The clans of that tribe will come in front of me, one clan at a time. I will choose one clan. Then the families of that clan will come in front of me, family by family. I will choose one family. Then the men of that family will come to stand in front of me, one by one." 
Joshua7:15 Then I will show you which man has taken the things that belong to me. You must kill that man and burn his body. You must kill him and everything that he has, together with all his family. He has done a very bad thing that no Israelite should ever do. He has turned against the covenant that I made with my people.’" 
Joshua7:16 Early the next morning, Joshua told the tribes to come and stand in front of the Lord. They came one tribe at a time. The Lord chose the tribe of Judah." 
Joshua7:17 Then clans of the tribe of Judah came, one clan at a time. The Lord chose Zerah's clan. Families from Zerah's clan then came, one family at a time. The Lord chose Zimri's family." 
Joshua7:18 Joshua then made each man from Zimri's family come, one by one. The Lord chose Achan, son of Carmi, son of Zimri, son of Zerah, from the tribe of Judah." 
Joshua7:19 Then Joshua said to Achan, ‘My son, tell the truth, to show that you respect the Lord, Israel's God. Tell me what you have done. Do not try to deceive me.’" 
Joshua7:20 Achan replied, ‘It is true! I have done a bad thing against the Lord, Israel's God. This is what I have done." 
Joshua7:21 I found a beautiful coat from Babylon, and I found 200 silver coins, and a piece of gold that weighed half a kilogram. I wanted them so much that I took them for myself. I hid them in the ground in my tent. The silver coins are under the other things.’" 
Joshua7:22 So Joshua sent some men to go to Achan's tent. They ran there and they found the things that Achan had hidden. The silver coins were under the other things. 
Joshua7:23 The men took the things out from the tent. They brought them to Joshua and all the other Israelites. They put them all on the ground in front of the Lord. 
Joshua7:24 Then Joshua and all the people took Achan, the son of Zerah, and the silver coins, the coat, and the heavy piece of gold. They also took his sons, his daughters, and his cows, sheep and donkeys. They took all his things to Achor Valley." 
Joshua7:25 Joshua said, ‘Why did you cause so much trouble to come to us? The Lord will certainly give you trouble today!’ Then all the Israelites threw stones at him until he died. They also killed his family and they burned all the bodies." 
Joshua7:26 They put a big heap of stones over him. They are still there today. That is why the place is still called ‘Trouble Valley’. Then the Lord was not angry with his people any more. 
Joshua8:1 Then the Lord said to Joshua, ‘Do not be afraid. Continue to be brave! Take the whole army with you and go to attack Ai. This time, I will give the king and all his people to you. I will also give to you the city and its land." 
Joshua8:2 You must destroy the city and its king as you destroyed Jericho and its king. But this time you may take their valuable things and their animals for yourselves. Hide some of your men behind the city, so that they are ready to attack.’" 
Joshua8:3 So Joshua and the whole army marched towards Ai. Joshua chose 30,000 of the best soldiers and he sent some of them out at night time." 
Joshua8:4 He said to them, ‘Listen carefully. Go and hide behind the city. Stay near to it. Be ready to attack!" 
Joshua8:5 In the morning, I will march towards the city with our other soldiers. When we get near to the city, the enemy's men will come out of the city to fight against us, as they did before. Then we will turn round and we will run away." 
Joshua8:6 They will chase us away from the city. They will say, “The Israelites are running away from us, as they did before.” We will continue to run away from them." 
Joshua8:7 Then you must leave the place where you have hidden. Go into the city and take it. The Lord your God will give it to you. 
Joshua8:8 When you have taken the city, start to burn it. Do what the Lord has told you to do. Be sure that you obey my commands.’" 
Joshua8:9 Then Joshua sent the men away. They went and they hid on the west side of Ai, between Bethel and Ai. But Joshua stayed with his other soldiers that night." 
Joshua8:10 Early the next morning, Joshua took the army to march towards Ai. He and the leaders of Israel marched in front." 
Joshua8:11 The soldiers who were with Joshua marched up to the city. They stopped in front of it, on the north side. They put up their tents there, where there was a valley between them and the city." 
Joshua8:12 Joshua had already sent about 5,000 men to hide on the west side of the city, between Bethel and Ai." 
Joshua8:13 The whole Israelite army was ready to fight. Most of them were with their tents on the north side of the city. The other soldiers were hiding on the west side of the city. That night Joshua went down into the valley. 
Joshua8:14 The king of Ai saw that Israel's army had arrived. Early the next morning, the king and his army hurried out of the city. They wanted to fight against Israel's army at the same place as before, on the hill near the Jordan Valley. But the king of Ai did not know that some Israelite soldiers were hiding behind the city." 
Joshua8:15 Joshua and his army let the men of Ai chase after them. They pretended to be afraid. They ran towards the desert. 
Joshua8:16 The king told all the men who remained in the city to chase the Israelites. So they continued to chase after them, far away from their city." 
Joshua8:17 No men remained in Ai or Bethel. They all chased after the Israelites. There was nobody left to keep the city safe. 
Joshua8:18 Then the Lord said to Joshua, ‘Hold out the spear that is in your hand. Point it towards Ai. I am now giving the city to you.’ So Joshua held out his spear towards Ai." 
Joshua8:19 As soon as he did this, the men who were hiding behind the city came out quickly. They ran into the city and they took it. Immediately, they used fire to burn it." 
Joshua8:20 The men of Ai looked behind them and they saw smoke in the sky above the city. But they could do nothing to escape. The Israelites who had been running away from them now turned round to fight them. 
Joshua8:21 Joshua and his army also saw the smoke. They knew that the other group of soldiers had taken the city. So they turned round and began to attack the men of Ai. 
Joshua8:22 Now the Israelites who had gone into the city also came out to fight. So the men of Ai were in between the two groups of Israelite soldiers. The Israelites killed all the men of Ai. 
Joshua8:23 Only the king of Ai was still alive. They caught him and they took him to Joshua. 
Joshua8:24 The Israelites killed all the men who had lived in Ai. They killed them when they chased them towards the desert. Then the Israelite soldiers went back to Ai and they killed everyone there. 
Joshua8:25 All the people of Ai died on that day. That was 12,000 men and women." 
Joshua8:26 Joshua continued to point his spear at Ai, until his army had killed every person who lived there." 
Joshua8:27 But the Israelites took the valuable things and the animals for themselves. That was what the Lord had told Joshua. 
Joshua8:28 Joshua burned the city and he broke down its walls. It is still like that today. 
Joshua8:29 He hanged the king of Ai on a tree. He left his body there until evening. At sunset, Joshua told his men to cut the body down. They threw it on the ground outside the city's gate. They covered it with a heap of stones. Those stones are still there today." 
Joshua8:30 Then Joshua built an altar on Mount Ebal, to worship the Lord, Israel's God." 
Joshua8:31 He built it as the Lord 's servant, Moses, had told the Israelites to do. Moses had written this in the book of God's laws. The law said, ‘You must build an altar with whole stones that you have not cut. Do not use any iron tools on them.’ They made burnt offerings on the altar to worship the Lord. They also made sacrifices as friendship offerings." 
Joshua8:32 The Israelites watched Joshua as he made a copy of God's Law on the stones. This was the Law that Moses had written. 
Joshua8:33 All the Israelites stood on each side of the Covenant Box, with their faces towards the priests who carried it. The leaders, officers, and judges were there, as well as foreign people who lived with the Israelites. Half the people stood with their backs to Mount Gerizim. The other half stood with their backs to Mount Ebal. Moses had told them to stand like that when the Lord wanted to bless them." 
Joshua8:34 Then Joshua read the whole Law aloud to them. He read the blessings and the curses, as they are written in the book of God's laws." 
Joshua8:35 Joshua read aloud every command that Moses had written. He read it to all the Israelite people. The women, children and the foreign people who lived with them also listened." 
Joshua9:1 All the kings who lived west of the Jordan River heard about what had happened at Ai. They were the kings who ruled in the hill country, in the low hills in the west, and all the coast of the Mediterranean Sea, as far as Lebanon. They were the kings of the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
Joshua9:2 They joined together to fight against Joshua and the Israelites. 
Joshua9:3 Some Hivite people who lived in Gibeon heard how Joshua had won against Jericho and Ai. 
Joshua9:4 So they had a clever idea. Some men took old bags of food and broken bags of wine that had holes in them. They put these things on their donkeys. 
Joshua9:5 They wore old shoes on their feet, and they dressed themselves in old clothes. They took some bread that was old and dry." 
Joshua9:6 They arrived at the tents of the Israelites in Gilgal. They said to Joshua and to the men of Israel, ‘We have come from a land that is very far away. Please let us make an agreement that we will not fight each other.’" 
Joshua9:7 But the men of Israel said to the Hivites, ‘Perhaps you live near to us. So we could not make a promise not to fight against you.’" 
Joshua9:8 The Hivites said to Joshua, ‘If you agree, we will become your servants.’ Joshua asked them, ‘Who are you? Where do you come from?’" 
Joshua9:9 They answered, ‘We, your servants, have come from a country that is very far away. We heard about the Lord, who is your God. We have heard about all the things that he did in Egypt." 
Joshua9:10 We also heard what he did to the two kings of the Amorites. They ruled cities east of the Jordan: Sihon, king of Heshbon, and Og, king of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth." 
Joshua9:11 Our leaders and all our people told us to come to meet you. Our leaders said, “Take food and drink for your journey. Go to meet them, and say to them, ‘We want to be your servants. Please promise not to fight against us.’ ”" 
Joshua9:12 We have come a very long way. This bread was warm when we put it in our bags on the day that we left home. But see how hard and dry it has become. 
Joshua9:13 These bags of wine were new, but see how old and spoiled they are now. Our clothes and our shoes have become old as we made our long journey.’" 
Joshua9:14 The Israelite men tasted some of the Gibeonites' food, but they did not ask the Lord what they should do." 
Joshua9:15 So Joshua agreed that they would not kill the people of Gibeon. The Israelite leaders also said that they would obey this agreement. 
Joshua9:16 Three days after they made this agreement, the Israelites discovered that the Gibeonites lived near to them." 
Joshua9:17 So the Israelites left Gilgal to find the cities where the Hivites lived. After three days they arrived at their cities: Gibeon, Kephirah, Beeroth and Kiriath-Jearim." 
Joshua9:18 The Israelites did not attack them, because of the promise that their leaders had made. They had made a strong promise in the name of the Lord God of Israel that they would not kill the Gibeonites. The Israelite people were angry with their leaders, because of the agreement." 
Joshua9:19 But all the leaders said to them, ‘We have made a strong promise to the Lord, Israel's God. So now we cannot hurt the Gibeonites." 
Joshua9:20 But this is what we will do. We will let them live, because we made a strong promise to do that. Then God will not punish us." 
Joshua9:21 We will let them live, but they will become our servants. They will cut wood and they will carry water for all the Israelite people.’ That is what the Israelite leaders decided to do." 
Joshua9:22 Joshua called the Gibeonites to come to him. He asked them, ‘Why did you deceive us like that? You said that you lived far away from us. But you really live near to us." 
Joshua9:23 Because you told lies to us, you will always have to be our servants. You will cut wood and you will carry water to serve our God.’" 
Joshua9:24 The Gibeonites said to Joshua, ‘We heard about the command that the Lord your God had given to his servant, Moses. We know that he told Moses to take the whole of our land for you to live in. We know that you must kill all the people who live there now. Because of that, we were very afraid that you would kill us. That is why we did what we did." 
Joshua9:25 Now we are under your power. You must decide what to do with us. Do whatever you think is right and good.’ 
Joshua9:26 So Joshua agreed. He did not let the Israelites kill the Gibeonites. 
Joshua9:27 Instead, they made the Gibeonites cut wood and carry water, as servants for the Israelite people. They would also do this for the priests who served the Lord at his altar. They are still doing this, at the place that the Lord has chosen for his altar." 
Joshua10:1 The king of Jerusalem was called Adoni-Zedek. He heard how Joshua had taken Ai city, as he had also taken Jericho city. He heard that Joshua had destroyed those cities and their kings. He also heard that the Israelites had made an agreement with the Gibeonites. They promised that they would not attack the Gibeonites. He knew that the Gibeonites now lived among the Israelites." 
Joshua10:2 The king and the people of Jerusalem were very afraid, because Gibeon was a great city. It was bigger than Ai, like a great city with a king. All its men were brave soldiers." 
Joshua10:3 So King Adoni-Zedek asked some other kings to join with him to attack Gibeon. They were Hoham, king of Hebron, Piram, king of Jarmuth, Japhia, king of Lachish and Debir, king of Eglon." 
Joshua10:4 Adoni-Zedek said to them, ‘The Gibeonites have made an agreement with Joshua and the Israelites not to fight them. So please come and help me to attack Gibeon.’" 
Joshua10:5 So the five Amorite kings with their armies met together. They were the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish and Eglon. They put their soldiers near Gibeon city, and they began to attack it." 
Joshua10:6 The Gibeonites sent a message to Joshua at Gilgal. They said, ‘Please sir, do not refuse to help us! Come quickly and save us. All the Amorite kings from the hills have joined together to attack us.’" 
Joshua10:7 So Joshua took his whole army and they marched up from Gilgal. He had all his best soldiers with him. 
Joshua10:8 The Lord said to Joshua, ‘Do not be afraid of them. I will cause you to win against their armies. They will not be strong enough to fight against you.’" 
Joshua10:9 The Israelite soldiers marched all night from Gilgal. When they reached Gibeon, they quickly attacked the Amorite armies by surprise." 
Joshua10:10 The Lord caused the Amorites to become confused when they saw the Israelite army. So the Israelites won a great battle there at Gibeon. They chased their enemies along the road to Beth Horon. They continued to kill the Amorite soldiers as far as Azekah and Makkedah. 
Joshua10:11 As the Amorites ran down the hill from Beth Horon, the Lord sent large stones of hail down from the sky. The hail killed them all the way to Azekah. More of the Amorite soldiers died because of the heavy stones of hail, than because the Israelite soldiers killed them." 
Joshua10:12 So the Lord caused the Israelites to win the fight against the Amorites. After the battle that day, Joshua stood in front of Israel's people and he prayed to the Lord. He said, ‘Sun, stand still over Gibeon city. Moon, stand still over Aijalon Valley.’" 
Joshua10:13 So the sun stood still and the moon stopped moving across the sky. They stayed still while the Israelites punished their enemies. People wrote about this in the Scroll of Jashar. The sun stopped in the middle of the sky. It did not go down for about a whole day. 
Joshua10:14 A day like that had never happened before, and it has not happened since then. The Lord answered the prayer of a man in such a great way! The Lord himself was fighting the battle on behalf of the Israelites!" 
Joshua10:15 Then Joshua and all the Israelite army went back to their tents at Gilgal. 
Joshua10:16 The five kings had run away from the Israelite soldiers. They had hidden in a cave at Makkedah. 
Joshua10:17 Joshua heard that they were hiding there. 
Joshua10:18 He said to his men, ‘Take some big stones and cover the front of the cave. Put some men there to watch the cave." 
Joshua10:19 But you must continue to chase after your enemies. Do not stop now! Catch them! Do not let them reach their cities where they will be safe. Remember that the Lord your God has caused you to win against them.’ 
Joshua10:20 So Joshua and the Israelites destroyed nearly all the Amorite armies. But a few of the Amorites escaped and they reached their strong cities. 
Joshua10:21 Then the whole Israelite army returned to Joshua at Makkedah. All the people in the land were too afraid to speak against the Israelites. 
Joshua10:22 Then Joshua said to his men, ‘Take away the stones to open the cave where the five kings are. Bring them out here to me.’" 
Joshua10:23 So they brought the five kings to Joshua. They were the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish and Eglon." 
Joshua10:24 When they had brought the kings to Joshua, he called the men of Israel to meet there. He said to the officers of his army, ‘Put your feet on the necks of these kings.’ They did as he told them." 
Joshua10:25 Joshua said to them, ‘Do not be afraid. Be very strong and brave. Look at these kings! This is what the Lord will do to all the enemies that you will fight against.’" 
Joshua10:26 Then Joshua killed the five kings with his sword. He hung their bodies on five trees. They remained there until evening time. 
Joshua10:27 At sunset, Joshua told his men to take the kings down from the trees. They threw them into the cave where they had been hiding. They put big stones over the front of the cave. The stones are still there today." 
Joshua10:28 That day, Joshua attacked Makkedah city. He took it, together with its king. He destroyed everyone who lived in it. He did not leave anyone alive. He did the same thing to the king of Makkedah as he had done to the king of Jericho." 
Joshua10:29 After that, Joshua and his army marched from Makkedah to Libnah. They attacked Libnah city." 
Joshua10:30 The Lord gave them power over that city and its king. Joshua destroyed the city and everyone who lived in it. He did not leave anyone alive. They did the same thing to Libnah's king as they had done to the king of Jericho. 
Joshua10:31 After this, Joshua and all the Israelite army marched from Libnah to Lachish. They attacked Lachish city from all sides." 
Joshua10:32 The Lord gave them power over the city. They fought for two days and then they took the city. They killed everyone who lived in it, as they had done at Libnah." 
Joshua10:33 Then Horam, king of Gezer, came to help the people of Lachish. But Joshua's army fought against him and his army. He killed them all, with nobody left alive." 
Joshua10:34 Then Joshua and his army marched from Lachish to Eglon. They attacked Eglon city from all sides. 
Joshua10:35 They took it on the same day. They killed everyone who lived in that city, as they had done at Lachish." 
Joshua10:36 After this, Joshua and all the Israelite army marched up from Eglon to Hebron. They attacked Hebron city." 
Joshua10:37 They took the city and they killed its king. They killed all the people who lived there, and the people in the towns near to it. They destroyed the whole city, as they had done at Eglon. They did not leave anyone alive." 
Joshua10:38 Then Joshua and his army turned round and they marched to Debir. They attacked Debir city. 
Joshua10:39 They took the city, its king and all the towns near to it. They killed everyone who lived there. They did the same thing to Debir and its king as they had done to Hebron, and to Libnah and its king." 
Joshua10:40 In that way, Joshua took the whole land and all the kings who ruled there. He took the hill country, the Negev in the south, the low hills in the west and the mountains in the east. He killed all the people who lived there. He did not leave anyone alive. The Lord God of Israel had told him to do this." 
Joshua10:41 Joshua took the whole region, from Kadesh-Barnea in the south to Gaza near the sea. This included all of Goshen, as far as Gibeon in the north." 
Joshua10:42 Joshua won all these battles in one long fight. He won against all these kings and their lands. He won because the Lord, Israel's God, was fighting on Israel's behalf." 
Joshua10:43 After this, Joshua and all Israel's army went back to their tents at Gilgal." 
Joshua11:1 Jabin, king of Hazor, heard what had happened. So he sent a message to Jobab, king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron and the king of Acshaph." 
Joshua11:1 Jabin, king of Hazor, heard what had happened. So he sent a message to Jobab, king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron and the king of Acshaph." 
Joshua11:2 He also sent a message to the kings of the hill country in the north, in the Jordan Valley, south of Galilee. He also sent a message to people in the low hills and Naphoth Dor in the west." 
Joshua11:3 So Canaanite people came from the east and from the west. They were Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites and Jebusites who lived in the hills. They were also Hivites who lived near Mount Hermon, in the region of Mizpah." 
Joshua11:4 All these kings came with their big armies. They had many horses and chariots. The soldiers were too many to count. 
Joshua11:5 These kings all joined together to fight against the Israelites. They put up their tents near the water at Merom. 
Joshua11:6 The Lord said to Joshua, ‘Do not be afraid of them. This time tomorrow they will all be dead! I will give all of them to you Israelites. You must cut the legs of their horses so that they cannot run well. You must also burn their chariots.’" 
Joshua11:7 So Joshua and his whole army went to attack them at the Waters of Merom. They quickly attacked them by surprise. 
Joshua11:8 The Lord caused the Israelites to win against them. The Israelite soldiers chased them as far as Sidon, Misrephoth Maim and Mizpah Valley in the east. They killed their enemies as they chased them, until they were all dead." 
Joshua11:9 Joshua did what the Lord had commanded him to do. He cut their horses' legs and he burned their chariots. 
Joshua11:10 At that time, Hazor was the most important city among all those kingdoms that fought against the Israelites. So Joshua turned back and attacked Hazor. He killed its king." 
Joshua11:11 The Israelites killed everyone who lived there. Nothing in the city was left alive. They burned the city and destroyed it. 
Joshua11:12 Joshua took all these cities and he killed all their kings. He destroyed them all, as the Lord 's servant Moses had told him to do." 
Joshua11:13 But the Israelites did not burn the cities that were built on small hills. Hazor was the only city like that which Joshua did burn. 
Joshua11:14 The Israelites took for themselves all the animals and the valuable things from those cities. But they killed all the people. They did not let any of them live. 
Joshua11:15 Moses had told all the Lord 's commands to Joshua. Joshua obeyed all the Lord 's commands. He did everything that the Lord had told Moses. 
Joshua11:16 Joshua's army won against all the people who were living in the land. He took the hill country, the Negev in the south, and the land of Goshen. He took the low hills in the west and the Jordan Valley. He took the mountains and the hills of Israel." 
Joshua11:17 The land went from Mount Halak near Edom country, to Baal Gad in the Lebanon Valley, below Mount Hermon. He caught all the kings of those regions and he killed them all." 
Joshua11:18 Joshua was fighting against those kings for a long time. 
Joshua11:19 None of those kingdoms agreed not to fight against the Israelites, except the Hivites who lived in Gibeon. The Israelites fought battles against all the other kingdoms and they won." 
Joshua11:20 The Lord had caused the minds of those people to become hard. So they all decided to fight against the Israelites. The Lord wanted the Israelites to destroy those people completely, as he had commanded Moses." 
Joshua11:21 During that time, Joshua went to fight against the Anakites, who lived in the hill country. They lived in Hebron, Debir and Anab, and among the hills of Judah and Israel. Joshua destroyed them all, and all their towns." 
Joshua11:22 So no Anakites remained in Israel, except for a few who lived in Gaza, Gath and Ashdod." 
Joshua11:23 In that way, Joshua took the whole land. The Lord had promised Moses that he would give the land to his people. Joshua gave a part of the land to each tribe, for them to live in. After all that, the people did not have to fight any more." 
Joshua12:1 The Israelites killed these kings who ruled on the east side of the Jordan River. They destroyed them and they took their land. Their land went from the Arnon Valley to Mount Hermon. It included all the land on the east side of the Jordan Valley. 
Joshua12:2 They killed Sihon, king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon. He ruled half of the Gilead region. That is from Aroer that was on the edge of the Arnon Valley, as far as the Jabbok River. The Ammonites had the land on the other side of the river." 
Joshua12:3 King Sihon's land also went along the east side of the Jordan Valley from the sea of Galilee to the Salt Sea. His land went south to Beth Jeshimoth and as far as Mount Pisgah. 
Joshua12:4 They killed Og, king of Bashan. He was one of the last Rephaites. He lived in Ashtaroth and in Edrei." 
Joshua12:5 He ruled the land from Mount Hermon and Salecah in the north, and all of the Bashan region in the east. His land went as far as the borders of the kingdoms of Geshur and Maakah. He ruled half of the Gilead region, as far as the border of King Sihon of Heshbon." 
Joshua12:6 The Lord 's servant, Moses, and the Israelites won against these kings. Moses gave their land to the tribes of Reuben, Gad and half the tribe of Manasseh to live in." 
Joshua12:7 Joshua and the Israelites killed these kings who ruled on the west side of the Jordan River. Joshua gave these kings' land to the Israelite tribes for them to live in. He gave a different piece of land to each tribe. Their land went from Baal Gad in the Lebanon Valley to Mount Halak, which is near Seir." 
Joshua12:8 This included the hill country, the low hills in the west, the Jordan Valley, the mountains, the wilderness and the Negev. That was the land that belonged to the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
Joshua12:9 Joshua took the land of these kings: king of Jericho, king of Ai (near Bethel)," 
Joshua12:10 king of Jerusalem, king of Hebron," 
Joshua12:11 king of Jarmuth, king of Lachish," 
Joshua12:12 king of Eglon, king of Gezer," 
Joshua12:13 king of Debir, king of Geder," 
Joshua12:14 king of Hormah, king of Arad," 
Joshua12:15 king of Libnah, king of Adullam," 
Joshua12:16 king of Makkedah, king of Bethel," 
Joshua12:17 king of Tappuah, king of Hepher," 
Joshua12:18 king of Aphek, king of Lasharon," 
Joshua12:19 king of Madon, king of Hazor," 
Joshua12:20 king of Shimron Meron, king of Acshaph," 
Joshua12:21 king of Taanach, king of Megiddo," 
Joshua12:22 king of Kedesh, king of Jokneam in Carmel," 
Joshua12:23 king of Dor in Naphoth Dor, king of Goyim in Gilgal," 
Joshua12:24 king of Tirzah. Joshua and the Israelites took the land of these 31 kings. 
Joshua13:1 Joshua had become a very old man. The Lord said to him, ‘You are now very old. There is still a lot of land that you have not yet taken." 
Joshua13:2 This is the land left for you to take: All the land of the Philistines and the Geshurites. 
Joshua13:3 Their land goes from Shihor River on the east side of Egypt, to the border of Ekron's land. That part belongs to the Canaanites. The land of the Philistine rulers in Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gath and Ekron. There is also the land of the Avvites in the south." 
Joshua13:4 You must take all the land of the Canaanites, which goes from Arah in Sidon region, and continues to Aphek, as far as the border of the Amorites." 
Joshua13:5 There is also the land of the Gebalites, and all of Lebanon in the east. That land goes from Baal Gad at the side of Mount Hermon, to Lebo-Hamath." 
Joshua13:6 I myself will chase out all the people of Sidon in front of the Israelites. I will chase them out of the hill country, from Lebanon as far as Misrephoth Maim. You must give this land to the tribes of Israel, as I have already told you." 
Joshua13:7 Each of the nine tribes, and the half tribe of Manasseh, must receive its own part of the land.’" 
Joshua13:8 Moses had already given land to the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and the other half of Manasseh. Their land was on the east side of the Jordan River. Moses, the Lord 's servant, had given a piece of land to each tribe." 
Joshua13:9 Their land went from Aroer, on the edge of the Arnon Valley and the town in the middle of the valley. It included all the flat land of Medeba, as far as Dibon." 
Joshua13:10 It included all the towns of Sihon, king of the Amorites, who ruled in Heshbon. It went to the border of the Ammonites' land." 
Joshua13:11 It included the land of Gilead, and the land of the Geshurites and Maakathites. It included all of Mount Hermon, and Bashan as far as Salecah." 
Joshua13:12 (That was the kingdom of King Og in Bashan, who ruled in Ashtaroth and Edrei. He was one of the last of the Rephaites.) Moses had won a fight against them and he had taken their land." 
Joshua13:13 But the Israelites did not chase out the Geshurites and the Maakathites, so they still live there among the Israelites." 
Joshua13:14 Moses had given no land to the tribe of Levi. This was because God had made the Levites a promise. He had made a rule that they would receive their food from the sacrifices and offerings that the other tribes gave to the Lord God of Israel. The Levites received that, instead of land for themselves." 
Joshua13:15 This is the part of the land that Moses gave to the clans of Reuben's tribe. 
Joshua13:16 He gave them the land from Aroer by the edge of the Arnon Valley and the town in the middle of the valley. 
Joshua13:17 And he gave them all the flat land past Medeba in Heshbon. It included Dibon, Bamoth Baal, Beth Baal Meon," 
Joshua13:18 Jahaz and Kedemoth. It also included Mephaath," 
Joshua13:19 Kiriathaim, Sibmah and Zereth Shahar. Zereth was on a hill in the middle of the valley." 
Joshua13:20 Their land included Beth Peor, and the sides of Mount Pisgah, and Beth Jeshimoth town." 
Joshua13:21 Moses gave them all the towns on the flat land. He gave them all the land of Sihon, king of the Amorites. Sihon had ruled from Hebron. But Moses had won the fight against him and the Midianite kings, Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur and Reba. These kings had ruled with Sihon and they lived in his land." 
Joshua13:22 The Israelites had killed the prophet Balaam, son of Beor, when they killed soldiers in the battle. He had used magic to help Balak fight against Israel." 
Joshua13:23 The border of Reuben's land was the Jordan River. Moses gave these towns and their villages to the tribe of Reuben, family by family." 
Joshua13:24 This is the part of the land that Moses gave to the clans of Gad's tribe. 
Joshua13:25 He gave them the land of Jazer, the towns of Gilead and half the land of the Ammonites. Their land went as far as Aroer, a town which was near Rabbah." 
Joshua13:26 It went from Heshbon to Ramath Mizpah and Betonim, and from Mahanaim to the land of Debir." 
Joshua13:27 Moses gave Gad these towns in the valley: Beth Haram, Beth Nimrah, Succoth and Zaphon. He gave them the rest of the land of Sihon, king of Heshbon. This was on the east side of the Jordan River, up to the edge of the sea of Galilee." 
Joshua13:28 Moses gave these towns and their villages to the tribe of Gad, family by family." 
Joshua13:29 This is the land that Moses gave to half the tribe of Manasseh, clan by clan." 
Joshua13:30 He gave them the land from Mahanaim, the land of Bashan, all the land ruled by Og, king of Bashan. It included all the 60 towns of Jair in Bashan." 
Joshua13:31 It included half of Gilead, Ashtaroth and Edrei. (These were the cities that belonged to King Og in Bashan.) This land was for half the descendants of Makir, Manasseh's son, to live in, family by family." 
Joshua13:32 Moses gave all that land to those tribes, while they were still on the east side of the Jordan River. They were in Moab, on the flat land near Jericho." 
Joshua13:33 Moses gave no part of the land to Levi's tribe. The Lord himself, Israel's God, would be their part, as he had promised them." 
Joshua14:1 Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the leaders of the Israelite clans gave different parts of the land to each tribe of Israel. This tells about the land that each tribe received." 
Joshua14:2 The leaders used lots to decide which parts of the land God had chosen for each of the 9½ tribes. This is what the Lord had told Moses to do. 
Joshua14:3 Moses had already given land east of the Jordan River to the other 2½ tribes. But he had not given any land to the Levites. 
Joshua14:4 The descendants of Joseph had now become two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. The leaders gave the Levites towns to live in, with enough land near them to feed their animals." 
Joshua14:5 The leaders of the Israelites gave a part of the land to each tribe, as the Lord had told Moses to do." 
Joshua14:6 Some of the men of Judah's tribe came to Joshua at Gilgal. Caleb spoke to Joshua. He was the son of Jephunneh, a Kenizzite man. Caleb said, ‘You know what the Lord said to Moses, the man of God, about you and me, at Kadesh-Barnea." 
Joshua14:7 I was 40 years old when Moses sent me from there to explore the land of Canaan. I brought back to him a true report. I was sure that we could take the land. 
Joshua14:8 The other men who went with me made the people afraid. But I continued to trust the Lord my God. 
Joshua14:9 So Moses made a promise to me on that day. He said, “The land that your feet have walked on will always belong to you and to your children. That is because you have trusted the Lord your God.”" 
Joshua14:10 The Lord has kept me alive for 45 years since Moses said this. During that time, the Israelites were travelling in the desert. Now I am 85 years old." 
Joshua14:11 I am still as strong as I was on the day that Moses sent me out. I can fight as well now as I could then. 
Joshua14:12 So please give to me this hill country that the Lord promised to me. You heard that the Anakites were living there then, in large, strong cities. But the Lord will help me to chase them out, as he has promised to do.’" 
Joshua14:13 Then Joshua blessed Caleb, Jephunneh's son. Joshua gave Hebron to him as his part of the land." 
Joshua14:14 So since that day, Hebron has belonged to Caleb, son of Jephunneh, the Kenizzite. He continued to trust the Lord, Israel's God. So Joshua gave him the land that he wanted." 
Joshua14:15 (Before that, Hebron had been called ‘Kiriath Arba’. Arba was a famous Anakite.) After that, there were no more battles in Canaan." 
Joshua15:1 This is the land that Joshua gave to the tribe of Judah, clan by clan. Their land went south along the border of Edom, as far as the wilderness of Zin in the Negev." 
Joshua15:2 The south border of Judah's land was from the south end of the Salt Sea. 
Joshua15:3 It went across the south side of the Scorpion Hill, to Zin. From the south it went up to Kadesh-Barnea, as far as Hebron. Their border continued past Addar, and it turned towards Karka." 
Joshua15:4 Then it went to Azmon and it continued to the Stream of Egypt. It finished at the sea. That was the south border of Judah's land. 
Joshua15:5 Judah's east border went from the Salt Sea as far as the end of the Jordan River. Their north border started from the end of the Jordan at the Salt Sea. 
Joshua15:6 From there it went to Beth Hoglah. Then it went north of Beth Arabah to the stone of Bohan. (Bohan was a son of Reuben.) 
Joshua15:7 The border went from Achor Valley to Debir. Then it went north to Gilgal. Gilgal is opposite the Adummim hill, on the south side of the valley. Then it reached the springs of En Shemesh to En Rogel." 
Joshua15:8 From there it went through Hinnom Valley to the south side of a hill beside the Jebusite city of Jerusalem. Judah's border then continued to the top of the hill on the west side of Hinnom Valley. This was at the north end of the valley of the Rephaites. 
Joshua15:9 From there it went to the springs of Nephtoah and onto the cities near Mount Ephron. It went towards Baalah (also called Kiriath-Jearim). 
Joshua15:10 It went round Baalah towards the hills of Edom. It went north of Mount Jearim (also called Kesalon) down to Beth Shemesh, and it continued on past Timnah." 
Joshua15:11 Then it went out to the hills north of Ekron, and on towards Shikkeron. It went past Mount Baalah, as far as Jabneel. Judah's north border ended at the sea." 
Joshua15:12 The west border of Judah's land was the Mediterranean Sea. Those were the borders of the land which Judah's tribe and its clans received. 
Joshua15:13 The Lord had told Joshua to give Kiriath Arba to Caleb, Jephunneh's son. That was the part of Judah's land that Caleb received. Arba was the father of Anak. Kiriath Arba was now called Hebron." 
Joshua15:14 Caleb chased out the three sons of Anak from Hebron. Their names were Sheshai, Ahiman and Talmai." 
Joshua15:15 From there he went to attack the people of Debir. (Debir had been called Kiriath Sepher). 
Joshua15:16 Caleb said, ‘If a brave man attacks and takes Kiriath Sepher, he can marry my daughter, Acsah.’" 
Joshua15:17 Othniel attacked the city and he took it. He was the son of Caleb's brother, Kenaz. So Caleb gave his daughter Acsah to Othniel, to be his wife." 
Joshua15:18 After this, Acsah told Othniel that they should ask her father to give them some land. She went to see her father, Caleb. As she got off her donkey, Caleb asked her, ‘What would you like me to do for you?’" 
Joshua15:19 She said, ‘Please be kind and give me a special gift. You have given me some land in the Negev Desert. Now please give me a place with springs so that I have water for the land.’ So Caleb gave her some land with springs, on high land and on low land." 
Joshua15:20 This is the land that Joshua gave to the clans of Judah's tribe. 
Joshua15:21 These towns were in the south of Judah's land, near the border of Edom: Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur," 
Joshua15:22 Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah," 
Joshua15:23 Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan," 
Joshua15:24 Ziph, Telem, and Bealoth." 
Joshua15:25 Also Hazor Hadattah, Kerioth Hezron (that is, Hazor)," 
Joshua15:26 Amam, Shema, Moladah," 
Joshua15:27 Hazar-Gaddah, Heshmon, Beth Pelet." 
Joshua15:28 Also Hazar-Shual, Beersheba, Biziothiah," 
Joshua15:29 Baalah, Iim, Ezem," 
Joshua15:30 Eltolad, Kesil, Hormah," 
Joshua15:31 Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah," 
Joshua15:32 Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain and Rimmon. That is 29 towns with their villages." 
Joshua15:33 These towns were in the low hills in the west: Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah," 
Joshua15:34 Zanoah, En Gannim, Tappuah, Enam," 
Joshua15:35 Jarmuth, Adullam, Sokoh and Azekah." 
Joshua15:36 Also he gave them Shaaraim, Adithaim and Gederah, (or Gederothaim). There were 14 towns and villages." 
Joshua15:37 He gave them Zenan, Hadashah, Migdal Gad," 
Joshua15:38 Dilean, Mizpah, Joktheel," 
Joshua15:39 Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon," 
Joshua15:40 Cabbon, Lahmas, and Kitlish." 
Joshua15:41 Also he gave them Gederoth, Beth Dagon, Naamah and Makkedah. There were 16 towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:42 He also gave them Libnah, Ether, Ashan," 
Joshua15:43 Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib," 
Joshua15:44 Keilah, Aczib and Mareshah. There were nine towns with their villages." 
Joshua15:45 He also gave them Ekron with the houses and villages that belonged to it. 
Joshua15:46 And he gave them all those towns west of Ekron, near to Ashdod with their villages." 
Joshua15:47 And he gave them Ashdod and Gaza with their houses and villages. They had the land as far as the Stream of Egypt, and to the Mediterranean Sea." 
Joshua15:48 These towns were in the hill country: Shamir, Jattir, Sokoh," 
Joshua15:49 Dannah, Kiriath Sannah (that is, Debir)," 
Joshua15:50 and Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim," 
Joshua15:51 Goshen, Holon and Giloh. There were 11 towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:52 He also gave them Arab, Dumah, Eshan," 
Joshua15:53 Janim, Beth Tappuah, Aphekah," 
Joshua15:54 Humtah, Kiriath Arba (that is, Hebron) and Zior. There were nine towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:55 Also Maon, Carmel, Ziph, Juttah," 
Joshua15:56 Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah," 
Joshua15:57 Kain, Gibeah and Timnah. There were ten towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:58 And he gave them Halhul, Beth Zur, Gedor," 
Joshua15:59 Maarath, Beth Anoth and Eltekon. There were six towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:60 And Kiriath Baal, (that is, Kiriath-Jearim) and Rabbah. There were two towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:61 These towns were in the desert: Beth Arabah, Middin, Secacah," 
Joshua15:62 Nibshan, Salt city, and En Gedi. There were six towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:63 But the men of Judah's tribe could not chase the Jebusites out of Jerusalem. As a result, the Jebusites still live there, together with the people of Judah." 
Joshua16:1 This is the land that Joshua gave to the descendants of Joseph. Their land went from the Jordan River at Jericho, and from there it went through the desert into the hills of Bethel." 
Joshua16:2 The south border of their land went from Bethel, to Luz, and then to the land of the Arkites at Ataroth." 
Joshua16:3 It continued to the west, to the land of the Japhletites as far as lower Beth Horon and Gezer. The border ended at the sea." 
Joshua16:4 Joshua gave this land to Manasseh and Ephraim, the sons of Joseph. It was for them and their descendants." 
Joshua16:5 Joshua gave this land to the tribe of Ephraim, clan by clan: The border of their land went from Ataroth Addar in the east to Beth Horon." 
Joshua16:6 Then it continued west to the sea, with Micmethath on the north side of the border. East of Micmethath, the border went past Taanath Shiloh on the east and then to Janoah." 
Joshua16:7 From there it went to Ataroth and Naarah and past Jericho to the Jordan River. 
Joshua16:8 From Tappuah, the border continued to the west, to Kanah Valley. From there, it continued to the sea. That is the land that Joshua gave to the families of the tribe of Ephraim." 
Joshua16:9 They also received some towns and villages that were in Manasseh's land. 
Joshua16:10 But the tribe of Ephraim did not chase out the Canaanite people who lived in Gezer. Canaanite people still live there with the people of Ephraim, but they have to work as their slaves." 
Joshua17:1 This is the land that Manasseh's tribe received. Manasseh was Joseph's firstborn son. Manasseh's firstborn son was Makir. He was the father of Gilead. Makir's descendants were brave soldiers. Because of that, Moses had already given Gilead and Bashan to them, east of the Jordan River." 
Joshua17:2 The other families of Manasseh received land on the west side of the Jordan. They were the descendants of Abiezer, Helek, Asriel, Shechem, Hepher and Shemida. They were all sons of Manasseh, and leaders of their clans." 
Joshua17:3 Zelophehad, son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Makir, son of Manasseh, had no sons. He had only daughters. Their names were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah." 
Joshua17:4 They went to see Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the leaders. They said, ‘The Lord told Moses to give us part of the land. We must have land like the sons of other families.’ Joshua agreed and he gave land to them, like the other families." 
Joshua17:5 That is why Manasseh's tribe received ten parts of the land, as well as Gilead and Bashan on the east side of the Jordan." 
Joshua17:6 The daughters of Manasseh received some land, as well as his sons. They gave the land of Gilead to the other families of Manasseh." 
Joshua17:7 The border of Manasseh's land went from Asher to Micmethath, east of Shechem. It went south to include En Tappuah." 
Joshua17:8 Manasseh received the land near Tappuah, but the town of Tappuah belonged to the tribe of Ephraim." 
Joshua17:9 The border of Manasseh's land went down to Kanah Valley and along its north side to the Mediterranean Sea. Some towns on the south of that valley belonged to Ephraim, but they were in Manasseh's land." 
Joshua17:10 Ephraim's land was south of the river, and Manasseh's land was to the north. Manasseh's west border was the Mediterranean Sea. Asher's land was on the north side of Manasseh's land. Issachar's land was on the east side." 
Joshua17:11 Some towns that were in the lands of Issachar and Asher belonged to Manasseh. They were Beth Shan, Ibleam and the people who lived in Dor, Endor, Taanach, and Megiddo. They included the villages near those towns." 
Joshua17:12 But the men of Manasseh could not chase out the people who lived in those towns. So the Canaanite people continued to live there. 
Joshua17:13 When the Israelites became stronger, they made the Canaanites work for them as slaves. But they never completely chased the Canaanites out from those towns." 
Joshua17:14 Joseph's descendants asked Joshua, ‘Why have you given only one part of the land for us to live in? The Lord has blessed us with many children, so there are many people in our tribe.’" 
Joshua17:15 Joshua said to them, ‘Because there are so many of you, you may take more land. If the hill country of Ephraim is too small for you, move into the forest that belongs to the Perizzites and the Rephaites. Cut down trees there to make a place to live.’" 
Joshua17:16 They replied, ‘The hill country is certainly not big enough for us. But the Canaanites who live in Beth Shan and its villages, and in Jezreel Valley, have iron chariots.’" 
Joshua17:17 Joshua said to the men from the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, ‘You have very many strong men who can fight. I will give you more land than the part that you have already received." 
Joshua17:18 You may take the whole of the hill country as your land. You can cut down the trees of the forests and live there. It is true that the Canaanites are strong fighters and they have iron chariots. But you will be strong enough to chase them out.’ 
Joshua18:1 All the Israelite people met together at Shiloh. There they put up the Tent of Meeting. They now ruled the whole land. 
Joshua18:2 But there were still seven tribes that Joshua had not yet given a part of the land for themselves. 
Joshua18:3 Joshua said to them, ‘The Lord, the God of your ancestors, has given you the land. How much longer will you wait before you take it?" 
Joshua18:4 Choose three men from each tribe. I will send them to look at the whole land, to see what it is like. They must describe each part and then bring a report back to me." 
Joshua18:5 You must divide the land into seven parts. Judah's tribe will keep the land in the south. Joseph's two tribes will keep their land in the north. Divide the rest of the land into seven parts. 
Joshua18:6 See what the land is like and describe each of the seven parts. Bring your report to me. Then I will use lots to choose which tribe should receive each part of the land. The Lord our God will decide this. 
Joshua18:7 The Levites will not have any land of their own. Their gift from the Lord is to serve him. Gad, Reuben and half the tribe of Manasseh already have their land on the east side of the Jordan River. The Lord 's servant, Moses, gave it to them.’" 
Joshua18:8 Before the men left, Joshua said to them, ‘Go and look carefully at the land. Describe what you see. Then bring your report back to me here in Shiloh. I will use lots so that the Lord decides how to share the land between you.’" 
Joshua18:9 So the men left and they travelled through the land. They described the land and each town and they wrote it in a book. They wrote about each of the seven parts of the land. Then they went back to Joshua at Shiloh, where the Israelites had put up their tents." 
Joshua18:10 There at Shiloh, Joshua used lots to see how the Lord wanted to divide the land. He told each of the seven Israelite tribes which part of the land they would receive." 
Joshua18:11 The first part of the land was for Benjamin's tribe, clan by clan. Their land was between the land that Joshua had already given to the tribes of Judah and Joseph." 
Joshua18:12 The north border of their land began at the Jordan River, and it went up the hills to the north of Jericho. From there it went west into the hills, to the desert near Beth Aven." 
Joshua18:13 Then their border continued to the south of Luz (that is Bethel) and went down to Ataroth Addar. That is on the hill south of Lower Beth Horon. 
Joshua18:14 From that hill, their west border went south to Kiriath Baal (that is Kiriath-Jearim). This town belonged to the people of Judah. That was the west border of Benjamin's land." 
Joshua18:15 The south border went from the edge of Kiriath-Jearim to the springs of water at Nephtoah. 
Joshua18:16 Then it went to the edge of the hill country, near Ben Hinnom Valley. This was north of the Valley of the Rephaites. It continued down the Hinnom Valley, south of the Jebusite city and then went on to En Rogel." 
Joshua18:17 Then it went north to En Shemesh. It continued to Geliloth, opposite Adummim Valley. Then it went to the great stone of Bohan, Reuben's son." 
Joshua18:18 It continued to the north of Beth Arabah down into the Jordan Valley. 
Joshua18:19 Then it went north of Ben Hoglah, to the north end of the Salt Sea, where the Jordan River ends. That was the south border of Benjamin's land." 
Joshua18:20 The east border of their land was the Jordan River. Those are the borders of the land that Joshua gave to the families of Benjamin's tribe. 
Joshua18:21 These are the cities that Joshua gave to the tribe of Benjamin: Jericho, Beth Hoglah, Emek Keziz," 
Joshua18:22 Beth Arabah, Zemaraim, Bethel," 
Joshua18:23 Avvim, Parah, Ophrah," 
Joshua18:24 Kephar, Ammoni, Ophni and Geba. There were 12 towns and their villages." 
Joshua18:25 Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth," 
Joshua18:26 Mizpah, Kephirah, Mozah," 
Joshua18:27 Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah," 
Joshua18:28 Zelah, Haeleph, the Jebusite city (that is, Jerusalem), Gibeah and Kiriath. There were 14 towns and their villages. Joshua gave these cities to Benjamin's tribe, for each clan to live in." 
Joshua19:1 The second part of the land was for Simeon's tribe, clan by clan. Their land was in the middle of Judah's land." 
Joshua19:2 It included these towns: Beersheba (also called Sheba), Moladah," 
Joshua19:3 Hazar-Shual, Balah, Ezem," 
Joshua19:4 Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah," 
Joshua19:5 Ziklag, Beth Marcaboth, Hazar-Susah," 
Joshua19:6 Beth Lebaoth and Sharuhen. There were 13 towns and their villages. 
Joshua19:7 He also gave them Ain, Rimmon, Ether and Ashan. There were four towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:8 This included all the villages near them as far as Baalath Beer (also called Ramah, in the Negev). That was the land that Joshua gave to the families of Simeon's tribe." 
Joshua19:9 Because Judah had received more land than they needed, Joshua took some of their land for Simeon. So Simeon's tribe lived inside the land that Joshua had given to Judah." 
Joshua19:10 The next part of the land was for Zebulun's tribe, clan by clan. The border of their land went as far as Sarid." 
Joshua19:11 Then it went west to Maralah, it touched Dabbesheth, and it went to the valley near Jokneam." 
Joshua19:12 From Sarid their border went east to the land of Kisloth Tabor. Then it went to Daberath and it continued up to Japhia. 
Joshua19:13 From there, it went east to Gath Hepher and Eth Kazin. It went on to Rimmon, and turned to go to Neah." 
Joshua19:14 The border went north to Hannathon and stopped at Iphtah El Valley. 
Joshua19:15 Their land included these towns: Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah and Bethlehem. There were 12 towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:16 That was the land that Joshua gave to the families of Zebulun's tribe, as well as the towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:17 The next part of the land was for Issachar's tribe, clan by clan." 
Joshua19:18 Their land included Jezreel, Kesulloth, Shunem," 
Joshua19:19 Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath," 
Joshua19:20 Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez," 
Joshua19:21 Remeth, En Gannim, En Haddah and Beth Pazzez." 
Joshua19:22 The border of their land touched Tabor, Shahazumah and Beth Shemesh. It ended at the Jordan River. There were 16 towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:23 That was the land that Joshua gave to the families of Issachar's tribe, as well as the towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:24 The next part of the land was for Asher's tribe, clan by clan." 
Joshua19:25 Their land included Helkath, Hali, Beten, Acshaph," 
Joshua19:26 Allammelech, Amad and Mishal. The west border of their land touched Carmel and Shihor Libnath." 
Joshua19:27 Then it went east towards Beth Dagon, to touch Zebulun and Iphtah El Valley. Then their border went north to Beth Emek and Neiel. It continued to Cabul in the north." 
Joshua19:28 It went to Abdon, Rehob, Hammon and Kanah, as far as Great Sidon." 
Joshua19:29 Then the border turned towards Ramah, and it went as far as the strong city of Tyre. Then it turned to Hosah and it ended at the Mediterranean Sea. Their towns included Hebel, Aczib," 
Joshua19:30 Ummah, Aphek and Rehob. They received 22 towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:31 That was the land that Joshua gave to the families of Asher's tribe, as well as the towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:32 The sixth part of the land was for Naphtali's tribe, clan by clan." 
Joshua19:33 The border of their land went from Heleph and the big oak tree in Zaanannim. It went to Adami Nekeb and Jabneel, and it continued to Lakkum. It ended at the Jordan River." 
Joshua19:34 The border turned west to Aznoth Tabor and it continued to Hukkok. It touched Zebulun's land on its south side, Asher's land on its west side and the Jordan River on its east side." 
Joshua19:35 Their land included these strong cities: Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath and Kinnereth," 
Joshua19:36 Adamah, Ramah, Hazor," 
Joshua19:37 Kedesh, Edrei, En Hazor," 
Joshua19:38 Iron, Migdal El, Horem, Beth Anath and Beth Shemesh. They received 19 towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:39 That was the land that Joshua gave to the families of Naphtali's tribe, as well as the towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:40 The seventh part of the land was for Dan's tribe, clan by clan." 
Joshua19:41 Their land included Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir Shemesh," 
Joshua19:42 Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah," 
Joshua19:43 Elon, Timnah, Ekron," 
Joshua19:44 Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath," 
Joshua19:45 Jehud, Bene Berak, Gath-Rimmon," 
Joshua19:46 Me Jarkon and Rakkon. They also received land in front of Joppa. 
Joshua19:47 (But later, the people of Dan failed to take their land and keep it. So they went to attack Leshem. They took the town and they killed its people. Then they lived there themselves. They called the city Dan, after their ancestor.)" 
Joshua19:48 That was the land that Joshua gave to the families of Dan's tribe, as well as the towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:49 When all the tribes had received their part of the land, the Israelites gave to Joshua, son of Nun, some land for himself." 
Joshua19:50 This is what the Lord had told them to do. Joshua asked to have Timnah Serah in the hill country of Ephraim. So they gave it to him. He built up the town and he lived in it. 
Joshua19:51 That is the list of all the pieces of land that each tribe received. Eleazar the priest, Joshua, son of Nun, and the Israelite leaders used lots to decide which part of the land was for each tribe. They did this in Shiloh, in front of the Tent of Meeting. The Lord was there with them. In that way, they finished giving each tribe a part of the land." 
Joshua20:1 Then the Lord said to Joshua," 
Joshua20:2 ‘Tell the Israelite people to choose special cities as safe places. I told Moses that you should do this. 
Joshua20:3 Anyone can be safe in these cities if he has killed someone but he did not mean to kill. A person like that must run to one of these towns and he will be safe from the dead person's relative. 
Joshua20:4 The person who killed someone must go to the special city. When he arrives, he must stand at the gate of the city. There he must tell the leaders what he has done. Then they must take him into the city. They must give him a place to stay so that he can live there." 
Joshua20:5 The dead person's relative may chase after the killer. The leaders of the city must not let him hurt the killer. This is because the killer did not mean to kill. 
Joshua20:6 The killer must stay inside that city. The judges there will decide if he is not guilty of murder. Then he must wait until the leader of the priests dies. After that, he is free to return to the town that he came from.’" 
Joshua20:7 So they chose these towns: Kedesh in Galilee (in the hill country of Naphtali), Shechem (in the hill country of Ephraim), and Kiriath Arba (that is Hebron, in the hill country of Judah)." 
Joshua20:8 They also chose these towns beyond Jericho, on the east side of Jordan River: Bezer (in the flat desert land of Reuben), Ramoth in Gilead (on Gad's land), Golan in Bashan (on Manasseh's land)." 
Joshua20:9 Any Israelite or foreign person living in Israel could run to these cities and be safe. They may have killed someone, but they did not mean to kill them. If they ran to these cities, the dead person's relative could not kill them. The judges in the city had to decide whether a killer was guilty of murder. Nobody could kill them before the judges decided." 
Joshua21:1 The leaders of the Levites families came to speak to Joshua, son of Nun. Eleazar the priest and the leaders of the other tribes were also there." 
Joshua21:2 They met at Shiloh in the land of Canaan. The Levites said, ‘The Lord told Moses that you must give us towns to live in, as well as land for our animals.’" 
Joshua21:3 So the Israelites did as the Lord had told them. They gave to the Levites towns to live in and land for their animals. They gave these from their own land. 
Joshua21:4 They gave towns first to the clans of Kohath. They gave 13 towns from the tribes of Judah, Simeon and Benjamin. They gave these to Levites who were descendants of Aaron, the priest." 
Joshua21:5 They also gave to the other descendants of Kohath, towns from the tribes of Ephraim, Dan and the west half of Manasseh." 
Joshua21:6 Then they gave 13 towns to the descendants of Gershon. Those towns came from the tribes of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali and the east half of Manasseh in Bashan." 
Joshua21:7 They gave 12 towns to the descendants of Merari. Those towns came from the tribes of Reuben, Gad and Zebulun." 
Joshua21:8 In that way, the Israelites gave these towns to the Levites, as well as land for their animals. They used lots to do it. They did as the Lord had told Moses to do." 
Joshua21:9 These are the names of the towns that the tribes of Simeon and Judah gave to the Levites. 
Joshua21:10 The Kohathite clans who were descendants of Aaron received these towns, because God chose them first." 
Joshua21:11 They received Kiriath Arba (or Hebron), with land near to it, in the hill country of Judah. Arba was the father of Anak." 
Joshua21:12 But the fields and villages near Hebron belonged to Caleb, son of Jephunneh." 
Joshua21:13 Hebron was one of the safe cities. The descendants of Aaron, the priest, received Hebron, Libnah," 
Joshua21:14 Jattir, Eshtemoa," 
Joshua21:15 Holon, Debir," 
Joshua21:16 Ain, Juttah and Beth Shemesh, as well as their fields. These two tribes gave them nine towns." 
Joshua21:17 Benjamin's tribe also gave four towns to them: Gibeon, Geba," 
Joshua21:18 Anathoth and Almon, as well as their fields." 
Joshua21:19 So the priests, descendants of Aaron, received 13 towns with their fields." 
Joshua21:20 The tribe of Ephraim gave some towns to Levites from other clans of Kohath. 
Joshua21:21 They gave them Shechem, a safe city, in the hill country of Ephraim, as well as Gezer," 
Joshua21:22 Kibzaim and Beth Horon, with their fields. That was four towns." 
Joshua21:23 The tribe of Dan gave them Eltekeh, Gibbethon," 
Joshua21:24 Aijalon, and Gath-Rimmon. That was another four towns with their fields." 
Joshua21:25 The west half tribe of Manasseh gave them Taanach and Gath-Rimmon, with their fields. That was two towns." 
Joshua21:26 So these Kohathite clans received ten towns with their fields. 
Joshua21:27 The Levites from the clans of Gershon received these towns. The east half tribe of Manasseh gave them Golan in Bashan, a safe city, and Be Eshtarah. That was two towns, as well as their fields." 
Joshua21:28 The tribe of Issachar gave them Kishion, Daberath," 
Joshua21:29 Jarmuth and En Gannim, with their fields. That was another four towns." 
Joshua21:30 The tribe of Asher gave them Mishal, Abdon," 
Joshua21:31 Helkath and Rehob, with their fields. That was four more towns." 
Joshua21:32 The tribe of Naphtali gave them Kedesh in Galilee, a safe city, Hammoth Dor and Kartan, with their fields. That was three towns." 
Joshua21:33 So the clans of Gershon received 13 cities with their fields. 
Joshua21:34 The other Levites were from the clan of Merari. The tribe of Zebulun gave them Jokneam, Kartah," 
Joshua21:35 Dimnah and Nahalal. That was four towns, as well as their fields." 
Joshua21:36 The tribe of Reuben gave them Bezer, Jahaz," 
Joshua21:37 Kedemoth and Mephaath, with their fields. That was four towns." 
Joshua21:38 The tribe of Gad gave them Ramoth in Gilead, a safe city, Mahanaim," 
Joshua21:39 Heshbon and Jazer, with their fields. That was four more towns." 
Joshua21:40 So the clans of Merari received 12 towns. That was all the Levite clans. 
Joshua21:41 The Levites received 48 towns in the land of the Israelite people. 
Joshua21:42 Each of these towns had its own fields round it, for animals to eat the grass." 
Joshua21:43 That is how the Lord gave the land to all the Israelite people. He had promised their ancestors that he would give the land to them. They took it from the people who had lived there, and then they lived there themselves." 
Joshua21:44 The Lord let them live there safely, as he had promised to their ancestors. The Lord made them stronger than their enemies, so nobody could attack them." 
Joshua21:45 The Lord did all the good things that he had promised to do for the people of Israel. He did not fail to do anything that he had promised. 
Joshua22:1 Then Joshua called together the tribes of Reuben, Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh." 
Joshua22:2 Joshua said, ‘You have done everything that Moses, the Lord 's servant, told you to do. You have also obeyed everything that I told you to do." 
Joshua22:3 You have helped the other tribes for a long time now. You have stayed with them even until today. You have done all the work that the Lord your God gave you to do. 
Joshua22:4 Now your brothers can live safely in the land, as the Lord promised them. So you can return to your homes on the other side of the Jordan River. Moses, the Lord 's servant, gave that land to you." 
Joshua22:5 But you must be very careful to obey the rules and the laws that Moses gave to you. You must love the Lord your God. You must obey the rules and commands that he has given to us. You must worship him and serve him with everything that you have.’ 
Joshua22:6 Joshua then blessed them and he sent them away to their homes. 
Joshua22:7 (Moses had given land in Bashan to half the tribe of Manasseh. But Joshua had given land on the west side of the Jordan to the other half of the tribe, as he did for the other tribes.) When Joshua sent the 2½ tribes home, he blessed them." 
Joshua22:8 He said, ‘Go back to your homes with the valuable things that you took from your enemies. Take many animals with you. Take silver, gold, bronze and iron things, as well as beautiful clothes. Share these things with the other people of your tribes.’" 
Joshua22:9 So the tribes of Reuben, Gad and half the tribe of Manasseh left the other Israelites in Shiloh, in the land of Canaan. They returned to their own land in Gilead. Moses had given this land to them, as the Lord had told him." 
Joshua22:10 The 2½ tribes came to Geliloth, near the Jordan River, in Canaan. They built a big altar there, beside the river." 
Joshua22:11 The other Israelites heard this news: ‘Those 2½ tribes have built an altar on the border of Canaan, at Geliloth! They have built it on the west side of the Jordan River, on our side!’" 
Joshua22:12 So the Israelites came together at Shiloh to fight against the other 2½ tribes. 
Joshua22:13 The Israelites sent Phinehas, son of Eleazar the priest, to the land of Gilead. He went to meet with the 2½ tribes, Reuben, Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh." 
Joshua22:14 10 Israelite leaders went with him, one man from each of their tribes. Each man was a leader of his own clan." 
Joshua22:15 The Israelite leaders arrived in the land of Reuben, Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh, in Gilead." 
Joshua22:16 They said, ‘You have not obeyed the Lord, Israel's God. All the people of Israel agree that you have done a bad thing. You have turned against the Lord. You should not have built this altar for yourselves." 
Joshua22:17 We did something very bad at Peor. Even now, we have not made it right. The Lord brought a bad disease to punish us as his people." 
Joshua22:18 Now you are doing another bad thing. You no longer want to obey the Lord. You are turning against him today. So tomorrow the Lord may punish us all! 
Joshua22:19 If your land here in Gilead is unclean, come back across the river to the Lord 's own land. You can come and live among us, in the land where the Lord 's tabernacle is. But do not turn against the Lord or against us. Do not build an altar for yourselves. The Lord our God already has his altar here." 
Joshua22:20 Remember the time when Achan, son of Zerah, took things that belonged to God for himself. He refused to obey God's command about Jericho's valuable things. Then God became angry with all the people of Israel. Achan died because of his sin, but he was not the only one.’" 
Joshua22:21 Reuben, Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh answered the Israelite leaders." 
Joshua22:22 They said, ‘God, the Lord, is the great God! God, the Lord knows what is true! So all Israel must also know! Punish us today if we have turned against the Lord. We have not refused to obey him." 
Joshua22:23 We did not build our own altar to make burnt offerings or grain offerings or friendship offerings on it. If we have done that, the Lord himself should certainly punish us." 
Joshua22:24 No! We had a very different idea. We were afraid that in the future, your descendants might say to our descendants, “You have nothing to do with the Lord, Israel's God." 
Joshua22:25 The Lord put the Jordan River as a border between our tribes and your tribes. The tribes of Reuben and Gad cannot worship the Lord!” In that way, your descendants might stop our descendants from serving the Lord." 
Joshua22:26 That is why we decided to build this altar. It will not be an altar where we make sacrifices or burnt offerings. 
Joshua22:27 But it will help us all, our descendants and your descendants, to remember to obey the Lord. We will go to worship him at his tabernacle. There we will bring to him our burnt offerings, our sacrifices and our friendship offerings. Then, in future years, your descendants will not say to our descendants, “You cannot worship the Lord with us.”" 
Joshua22:28 If they say that to us, we will reply, “Look at this altar that our ancestors built. It is a copy of the Lord 's true altar. It is not for burnt offerings or sacrifices. They built it so that we would remember that we all belong to the Lord.” " 
Joshua22:29 We would never decide to turn against the Lord. We want to continue to obey him. We know that the only altar where we must make burnt offerings, sacrifices and friendship offerings is the true altar of the Lord our God. That altar stands in front of his tabernacle.’" 
Joshua22:30 Phinehas the priest and the Israelite leaders that were with him heard this. They were happy with what the people of Reuben, Gad and Manasseh had told them." 
Joshua22:31 They said to them, ‘Now we know that the Lord is with us! You have not refused to obey the Lord. So we know that he will not punish us Israelites.’" 
Joshua22:32 Then Phinehas, the son of Eleazar the priest, and the leaders left Gilead and they went back to the land of Canaan. They told the Israelites in Canaan what the people of Reuben and Gad had said." 
Joshua22:33 The Israelites were happy to hear their report. They thanked God. They did not think any more that they might attack the other tribes and destroy their land. 
Joshua22:34 The people of Reuben and Gad gave their altar a name, because they wanted to remember that the Lord is their God. So they called the altar ‘Remember’." 
Joshua23:1 Joshua became very old. The Lord had let the Israelite people live safely for many years. The other nations who lived near them did not attack them. 
Joshua23:2 One day, Joshua called all the leaders to meet with him. They were the leaders of Israel's tribes and clans, the judges and the officers. He said to them, ‘I am now very old." 
Joshua23:3 You yourselves have seen what the Lord has done to these other nations. It was the Lord who fought against them on your behalf. 
Joshua23:4 Remember how I have given land to each of your tribes. The land is between the Jordan River in the east, and the Mediterranean Sea in the west. It is land that belonged to different nations. Some of those people we have chased away, but some of them still remain in the land." 
Joshua23:5 The Lord himself will chase those people out of the land, so that you can live there. The Lord your God has promised you all this." 
Joshua23:6 Be very strong. Be careful that you obey everything that Moses wrote in the Book of the Law. Do not turn away from any of those rules. 
Joshua23:7 Do not become friends of the nations that live near you. Do not call out to their gods. Do not use the names of their gods to make a promise. You must not serve them or worship them. 
Joshua23:8 But you must always serve the Lord your God, as you have until now." 
Joshua23:9 The Lord has chased out in front of you nations that are great and strong. None of them has been strong enough to win against you. 
Joshua23:10 Because the Lord your God fights on your behalf, one of you can chase away 1,000 men! The Lord has promised to do this for you." 
Joshua23:11 You must be very careful that you continue to love the Lord your God. 
Joshua23:12 You must not turn away from him to join with the other nations that still live near you. Do not marry any of them. Do not live in the way that they live. 
Joshua23:13 If you do that, the Lord your God will not chase them out in front of you any more. Instead, those nations will become a danger for you. They will be like a trap that catches you. They will be like sticks that beat your backs, and like sharp thorns in your eyes. They will bring trouble to you until none of you remain in this good land that the Lord your God has given to you." 
Joshua23:14 I will soon die, as all men do. The Lord your God has done everything that he promised you he would do. Deep inside yourselves, you know that is true. He has not failed to do even one thing that he promised." 
Joshua23:15 The Lord has given to you every good thing that he has promised. But if you refuse to obey him, he will also punish you in every way that he has promised. He will destroy you so that you no longer live in this good land that he has given to you." 
Joshua23:16 You must obey the rules that he commanded you to obey in his covenant. You must not serve or worship other gods. If you turn against him, the Lord your God will be very angry with you. Then very soon none of you will remain in this good land that he has given to you.’" 
Joshua24:1 Joshua called all the Israelite tribes to meet together at Shechem. He called the leaders of clans, the rulers, the judges and the officers to stand in front of the tabernacle." 
Joshua24:2 Joshua said to the people, ‘This is what the Lord, Israel's God, says: “A long time ago, your ancestors lived on the other side of the Euphrates River. They included Terah who was the father of Abraham and Nahor. They worshipped other gods." 
Joshua24:3 But I took Abraham, your ancestor, away from that land beyond the Euphrates River. I brought him here and I led him through all the land of Canaan. I gave him many descendants. I gave him a son, Isaac." 
Joshua24:4 I gave to Isaac two sons, Jacob and Esau. I gave to Esau the hills of Seir. But Jacob and his sons went down to live in Egypt." 
Joshua24:5 I sent Moses and Aaron to lead the Israelites when they were in Egypt. I punished the people of Egypt, and I brought you out from there." 
Joshua24:6 When I brought your ancestors out of Egypt, they reached the Red Sea. The Egyptians chased after them to the sea, with soldiers on horses and in chariots." 
Joshua24:7 But your ancestors called to the Lord for help. He made the space between them and the Egyptians become dark. He caused the Egyptian soldiers to drown in the sea. Your ancestors saw what I did to the Egyptians with their own eyes. After that, they lived in the desert for a long time." 
Joshua24:8 I brought you to the land of the Amorites, on the east side of the Jordan River. They fought against you, but I helped you to win the fight. I destroyed them in front of you, and you took their land." 
Joshua24:9 The king of Moab, Zippor's son Balak, prepared to attack you. When he did this, he asked Balaam, son of Beor, to curse you." 
Joshua24:10 But I would not listen to Balaam. So he could not curse you but he continued to bless you. In that way I saved you from Balak's power. 
Joshua24:11 Then you went across the Jordan River and you came to Jericho city. The people of Jericho fought against you. So did the Amorites, Perizzites, Canaanites, Hittites, Girgashites, Hivites and Jebusites. I helped you to win against all those people." 
Joshua24:12 I sent great fear on your enemies as you moved into the land. I chased them all away, as well as the two kings of the Amorites. You did not win because of your strong weapons, but because of me." 
Joshua24:13 The land was a gift from me. I gave you a land where you had not worked in its fields. I gave you towns to live in that you did not build. You eat grapes and olives from trees that you did not plant.” ’ 
Joshua24:14 Joshua said to the people, ‘Now you must serve the Lord with fear. You must worship him. You must continue to trust him. Throw away the gods that your ancestors worshipped when they lived beyond the Euphrates River and in Egypt. Worship the Lord." 
Joshua24:15 But if you refuse to serve the Lord, then you should choose another god to worship. Decide today! Will you serve the gods that your ancestors worshipped across the river? Will you serve the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are now living? You choose! But as for me and my family, we will serve the Lord.’" 
Joshua24:16 The people answered Joshua, ‘We would never turn against the Lord to serve other gods!" 
Joshua24:17 We and our fathers were slaves in Egypt. But the Lord our God brought us out from there. We saw the great miracles that he did there. He kept us safe all the time on our journey, as we travelled through other nations." 
Joshua24:18 The Lord chased all the nations out as we moved into the land. He chased out the Amorites and the other people who lived in the land. So we too will serve the Lord, because he is our God.’" 
Joshua24:19 Joshua said to them, ‘The Lord is a holy God. You will not be able to serve him. He wants you to belong to him alone. If you turn against him or you do not obey him, he will not forgive you." 
Joshua24:20 If you turn away from the Lord and you serve foreign gods, he will turn against you. He has been kind and he has helped you until now. But he will bring trouble to you and he will destroy you, if you turn away from him.’" 
Joshua24:21 The people said to Joshua, ‘Never! We will only serve the Lord.’" 
Joshua24:22 Joshua said to them, ‘You yourselves have chosen to serve the Lord. Agree now that you have done that.’ They replied, ‘Yes, we agree!’" 
Joshua24:23 Joshua said, ‘So now you must throw away the foreign gods that you still keep. Trust the Lord, Israel's God, and obey him.’" 
Joshua24:24 The people said to Joshua, ‘We will serve the Lord our God and we will obey him.’" 
Joshua24:25 That same day, Joshua made an agreement for the people to accept. There at Shechem, he made a list of rules and laws for them to obey." 
Joshua24:26 Joshua wrote these things in the Book of God's Law. Then he took a big stone. He stood it there under the oak tree that was near the Lord 's holy place. 
Joshua24:27 Joshua said to all the people, ‘Look at this stone! It has heard everything that the Lord has said to us today! It will speak against you if you fail to obey your God!’" 
Joshua24:28 Then Joshua sent the people away. They went to the parts of the land that now belonged to each of them. 
Joshua24:29 After this, the Lord 's servant, Joshua, son of Nun, died at the age of 110." 
Joshua24:30 The Israelites buried him in his own land that was at Timnah Serah. That was in the hill country of Ephraim, north of Mount Gaash." 
Joshua24:31 The people of Israel continued to serve the Lord while Joshua and the old men were still alive. Joshua and those men had seen everything that the Lord had done to help Israel. 
Joshua24:32 The Israelites had brought Joseph's bones up from Egypt, to bury him at Shechem. This land was in the field that Jacob had bought from the sons of Hamor, Shechem's father. Jacob had paid them 100 pieces of silver for the land. Now the land belonged to Joseph's descendants." 
Joshua24:33 Aaron's son, Eleazar, also died. The people buried him at Gibeah, in the hill country of Ephraim. That land had been given to Eleazar's son Phinehas." 
Judges1:1 After Joshua had died, the Israelites asked the Lord, ‘Which of our tribes should be the first to attack the Canaanites?’" 
Judges1:1 After Joshua had died, the Israelites asked the Lord, ‘Which of our tribes should be the first to attack the Canaanites?’" 
Judges1:2 The Lord replied, ‘Judah should attack first. I will give the land to them, to take for themselves.’" 
Judges1:3 The men of Judah's tribe said to their cousins, the men of Simeon's tribe, ‘Join with us to fight against the Canaanites. Help us to take the land that God has given to our tribe. Then we will help you to take the land that belongs to your tribe.’ So the men of Simeon's tribe joined with the men of Judah's tribe." 
Judges1:4 They attacked the Canaanites and the Perizzites at Bezek. The Lord helped them to win against 10,000 Canaanite and Perizzite fighters." 
Judges1:5 In the battle, they found King Adoni-Bezek and they attacked him there." 
Judges1:6 The king ran away, but the Israelites caught him. They cut off his thumbs and his big toes." 
Judges1:7 King Adoni-Bezek said, ‘God has punished me because I did the same thing to 70 other kings. I cut off their thumbs and big toes. I made them pick up bits of food to eat under my table.’ The Israelites took King Adoni-Bezek back to Jerusalem. He died there." 
Judges1:8 Judah's army then attacked Jerusalem. They took the city for themselves. They killed the people who lived there and they burned down the buildings. 
Judges1:9 Then they went to fight against the Canaanites who lived in the hill country, in the Negev and in the low hills in the west." 
Judges1:10 They attacked the people who lived in Hebron. They won the fight against the clans of Sheshai, Ahiman and Talmai. Hebron was called Kiriath Arba at that time." 
Judges1:11 Then they went to attack the people who lived in Debir. It was called Kiriath Sepher at that time. 
Judges1:12 Caleb said, ‘If a brave man attacks and takes Kiriath Sepher, he can marry my daughter, Acsah.’" 
Judges1:13 Othniel attacked the city and he took it. He was the son of Caleb's younger brother Kenaz. So Caleb gave his daughter Acsah to Othniel, to be his wife." 
Judges1:14 After this, Acsah told Othniel that they should ask her father to give them some land. She went to see her father, Caleb. As she got off her donkey, Caleb asked her, ‘What would you like me to do for you?’" 
Judges1:15 She replied, ‘Please be kind and give me a special gift. You have given me some land in the Negev Desert. Now please give me a place with springs so that I have water for the land.’ So Caleb gave her some land with springs, on high land and on low land." 
Judges1:16 The Kenites were descendants of Moses' wife's father. They left Jericho with Judah's people to live in the region of Arad, in the Negev Desert." 
Judges1:17 Then Judah's men joined with their cousins, Simeon's men, to attack the Canaanites who lived in Zephath. They completely destroyed the city. They gave it a new name, ‘Hormah’." 
Judges1:18 Judah's men also took for themselves the cities of Gaza, Ashkelon and Ekron, as well as the land around those cities." 
Judges1:19 The Lord helped the men of Judah so that they took the towns in the hill country for themselves. But they could not win against the people who lived on the lower land near the sea. Those people had iron chariots to help them fight. 
Judges1:20 Caleb received Hebron for his family, as Moses had promised him. Caleb had chased out the three clans of Anak who lived there." 
Judges1:21 The men of Benjamin's tribe could not chase out the Jebusites who lived in Jerusalem. As a result, the Jebusites continue to live in Jerusalem with the people of Benjamin." 
Judges1:22 The men of Joseph's two tribes attacked Bethel. The Lord helped them to do this. 
Judges1:23 Bethel had been called Luz. They sent some men to look secretly at the city. 
Judges1:24 Those men saw a man who was leaving the city. They said to him, ‘If you show us how our soldiers can get into the city, we will keep you safe.’" 
Judges1:25 So the man showed them a secret entrance to the city. The men of Joseph's tribes killed all the people in the city. But they kept the man and his family safe. 
Judges1:26 He went to the land of the Hittites. He built a city there. He called it Luz, and that is still its name." 
Judges1:27 But the men of Manasseh's tribe could not chase out the people of these five cities: Beth Shan, Taanach, Dor, Ibleam and Megiddo. The Canaanites who lived there were strong. So they continued to live in those cities and the regions around them." 
Judges1:28 When the Israelites had a strong army, they made the Canaanites do hard work for them. But they could never chase the Canaanites away completely." 
Judges1:29 The men of Ephraim's tribe could not chase out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer. Those Canaanites continued to live among the people of Ephraim in Gezer. 
Judges1:30 The men of Zebulun's tribe could not chase away the people who lived in Kitron and Nahalol. But they made the Canaanites who lived among them do hard work for them. 
Judges1:31 The men of Asher's tribe could not chase out the Canaanites who lived in Acco, Sidon, Ahlab, Aczib, Helbah, Aphek and Rehob." 
Judges1:32 Because of this, Asher's people continued to live among the Canaanites." 
Judges1:33 The men of Naphtali's tribe could not chase out the Canaanites who lived in Beth Shemesh and Beth Anath. They too continued to live among the Canaanites in the land. But the Canaanites who lived in Beth Shemesh and Beth Anath had to do hard work for the Israelites. 
Judges1:34 The Amorites were too strong for the men of Dan's tribe. So Dan's people had to live in the hill country. The Amorites would not let them live in the low land. 
Judges1:35 The Amorites were also strong enough to keep Mount Heres, Aijalon and Shaalbim for themselves. But when the Israelite army became stronger, they made the Amorites do hard work for them." 
Judges1:36 The border of the Amorites' land went from Scorpion Hill and it continued beyond Sela. 
Judges2:1 The angel of the Lord went from Gilgal to Bokim. He said, ‘I have brought you out from Egypt. I brought you here to this land that I promised to give to your ancestors. I said that I would always do for you what I promised in my Covenant." 
Judges2:2 I told you not to make any agreement with the people who live in this land. I told you to destroy the altars where they worship their gods. But you have not done as I told you. Why have you not obeyed me? 
Judges2:3 So now I tell you, I will not chase the Canaanites away so that you can take their land. Instead, they will cause trouble for you. Their false gods will cause you to turn away from me.’" 
Judges2:4 When the Lord 's angel had said this, the Israelites began to weep loudly." 
Judges2:5 They called that place Bokim. They offered sacrifices to the Lord there. 
Judges2:6 Joshua sent the people away. Each Israelite tribe went to take the part of the land that would belong to them. 
Judges2:6 Joshua sent the people away. Each Israelite tribe went to take the part of the land that would belong to them. 
Judges2:7 The Israelites continued to serve the Lord while Joshua and the old men were still alive. Joshua and those men had seen the great things that the Lord had done to help Israel. 
Judges2:7 The Israelites continued to serve the Lord while Joshua and the old men were still alive. Joshua and those men had seen the great things that the Lord had done to help Israel. 
Judges2:8 Then the Lord 's servant Joshua, the son of Nun, died at 110 years old." 
Judges2:8 Then the Lord 's servant Joshua, the son of Nun, died at 110 years old." 
Judges2:9 The people buried him in the land that had been given to his family. That was at Timnath Heres, in Ephraim's hill country, on the north side of Mount Gaash." 
Judges2:10 All the people of Joshua's generation died. The younger people no longer served the Lord. They themselves had not seen the great things that he had done to help Israel. 
Judges2:10 All the people of Joshua's generation died. The younger people no longer served the Lord. They themselves had not seen the great things that he had done to help Israel. 
Judges2:11 The Israelites did things that the Lord saw were evil. They worshipped the idols of Baal. 
Judges2:12 They turned away from the Lord, the God that their ancestors had worshipped. He was the one who had brought them safely out of Egypt. Instead, they served the false gods of the people who lived near them. They worshipped those gods and the Lord became very angry." 
Judges2:13 They turned away from the Lord and they worshipped the idols of Baal and Ashtoreth instead. 
Judges2:14 The Lord was very angry with the Israelites and he punished them. He sent robbers to attack them and take their animals and their food. He put them under the power of their enemies who lived around them. They were not strong enough to fight against their enemies. 
Judges2:15 When the Israelites went to fight against their enemies, the Lord turned against them. He punished them, as he said he would do. So the Israelites were in great trouble." 
Judges2:16 After that, the Lord chose judges to lead his people. These leaders rescued the Israelites from their enemies who were robbing them." 
Judges2:17 But the people did not obey their leaders. They refused to serve the Lord faithfully. Instead, they worshipped false gods. They did not live in the way that their ancestors had lived. Their ancestors had obeyed the Lord 's commands, but now the Israelites refused to obey him." 
Judges2:18 Every time that the Lord chose a judge to lead them, the Lord helped the leader to rescue them from their enemies. While the leader was still alive, the Lord was kind to them. When the Israelites called out to the Lord for help, he was sorry for them. He saw the cruel things that their enemies were doing to give them pain." 
Judges2:19 But when the leader died, the people would stop serving the Lord. They would do even more wicked things than their fathers had done. They would serve false gods and they would worship them. They refused to stop doing the wicked things that they wanted to do." 
Judges2:20 Because of this, the Lord became very angry with the Israelites. He said, ‘This nation of my people has not obeyed the covenant that I made with their ancestors." 
Judges2:21 So I will not chase out the nations that are still living in the land. They are the people who were still there when Joshua died. 
Judges2:21 So I will not chase out the nations that are still living in the land. They are the people who were still there when Joshua died. 
Judges2:22 I will use those nations to test the Israelites. I will see if my people will live carefully, in the way that I have shown them. That is the way that their ancestors lived.’" 
Judges2:23 So the Lord let some of the Canaanite nations continue to live in the land. He did not chase them all away. He had not put them all under Joshua's power. 
Judges2:23 So the Lord let some of the Canaanite nations continue to live in the land. He did not chase them all away. He had not put them all under Joshua's power. 
Judges3:1 The Lord allowed some nations to stay in Canaan. He would use them to test the Israelites who had not yet fought wars in Canaan. 
Judges3:2 He wanted to teach the young men of Israel how to fight their enemies, because they had not fought battles before." 
Judges3:3 The nations who remained were: the Philistines, with their five kings, all the Canaanites, the Sidonians, the Hivites who lived in the Lebanon mountains, from Mount Baal Hermon to Lebo-Hamath." 
Judges3:4 These nations were still there to test the Israelites. The Lord wanted to know if his people would obey his commands. Those were the commands that he had told Moses to give to the ancestors of the Israelites. 
Judges3:5 So the Israelites lived among those other nations, the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
Judges3:6 Some Israelites married young women from these nations. They also let their daughters marry Canaanite men. As a result, the Israelites started to worship the Canaanite gods." 
Judges3:7 The Israelites forgot to serve the Lord their God. They did things that he saw were evil. They worshipped idols of Baal and Asherah. 
Judges3:8 The Lord was very angry with the Israelites. He let King Cushan-Rishathaim of Aram Naharaim attack them. They were under his power for eight years. 
Judges3:9 Then the Israelites called out to the Lord for help. So he chose Othniel to be their leader. He was the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother. Othniel rescued them from their enemies." 
Judges3:10 The Lord 's Spirit gave Othniel power to lead Israel. Othniel led them to fight against King Cushan-Rishathaim of Aram. The Lord helped Othniel to win the battle against the king. 
Judges3:11 As a result, the land of Israel had peace for 40 years. Then Kenaz's son Othniel died." 
Judges3:12 Once again the Israelites did things that the Lord saw were evil. Because of this, the Lord gave Eglon, the king of Moab, power over Israel." 
Judges3:13 King Eglon made an agreement with the Ammonites and the Amalekites to join together to attack Israel. They attacked Jericho, ‘The City of Palm Trees’, and they took it for themselves." 
Judges3:14 The Israelites were under King Eglon's power for 18 years. 
Judges3:15 Again the Israelites called out to the Lord for help. He chose Ehud to be their leader. He was the son of Gera, from Benjamin's tribe. Ehud's strong hand was his left hand. The Israelites sent him to pay their taxes to King Eglon of Moab." 
Judges3:16 Ehud made a short sword that was sharp on both sides. He tied it to the top of his right leg and he hid it under his coat. 
Judges3:17 He took the money to give to King Eglon, who was a very fat man." 
Judges3:18 After Ehud had given the money to the king, he sent back home the men who had carried it." 
Judges3:19 But when Ehud reached the stone idols at Gilgal, he turned round to go back to the king. He said to King Eglon, ‘I have a secret message for you, sir!’ So the king said, ‘Leave us alone.’ All his servants went out." 
Judges3:20 The king was now sitting alone in his cool room on the roof of the palace. Ehud went near to the king and he said, ‘I have a message from God for you.’ The king started to get up from his chair." 
Judges3:21 Then Ehud used his left hand to take the sword from his right leg. He pushed it deep into the king's stomach. 
Judges3:22 The king's fat covered the whole sword, even its handle. Its point came out through the king's back. Ehud did not pull out the sword. He left it there." 
Judges3:23 Ehud went out of the room and he locked the doors. Then he escaped from the palace. 
Judges3:24 The king's servants came up to the room on the roof. They saw that the doors were locked. They thought that the king was using the toilet inside. 
Judges3:25 They waited for a long time and they started to worry. But the king still did not open the doors of his room. So they took the key and they opened the doors. Then they saw their master, the king! He was lying on the floor and he was dead." 
Judges3:26 While the servants were waiting outside the king's room, Ehud had escaped. He went past the stone idols, and he ran to Seirah." 
Judges3:27 When he arrived there in the hill country of Ephraim, he made a loud noise with a trumpet. He led the Israelites down from the hills." 
Judges3:28 He said to them, ‘Follow me! The Lord will put your enemy, the Moabites, under your power!’ The Israelites followed him to the Jordan River, near the border of Moab. They would not let anyone go across the river." 
Judges3:29 That day they killed about 10,000 Moabite soldiers. They were all strong, brave fighters, but none of them escaped." 
Judges3:30 The Israelites won the fight against Moab that day. The land of Israel had peace for 80 years. 
Judges3:31 After this, Anath's son Shamgar became Israel's leader. One time, he used a stick with a sharp point to kill 600 Philistines. He rescued the Israelites from their enemies, as Ehud had done." 
Judges4:1 After Ehud died, the Israelites again did things that the Lord saw were evil." 
Judges4:2 So the Lord put them under the power of King Jabin. He was a Canaanite king who ruled in Hazor. The leader of Jabin's army was called Sisera. Sisera lived in Harosheth Haggoyim. 
Judges4:3 He had 900 iron chariots for his army. He used his power to be cruel to the Israelites for 20 years. So they called out to the Lord for help. 
Judges4:4 At that time, Deborah, Lappidoth's wife, was leading the Israelites. She was a prophetess." 
Judges4:5 She would sit under a palm tree between Ramah and Bethel to judge people's problems. That was in the hill country of Ephraim. The Israelites would come to her when they had arguments. She would decide who was right. 
Judges4:6 One day, Deborah told Abinoam's son Barak to come to her. He lived in Kedesh, a town in Naphtali. She said to Barak, ‘The Lord, Israel's God, has given you this command: “March to Mount Tabor with 10,000 men who belong to the tribes of Naphtali and Zebulun." 
Judges4:7 I will deceive Sisera, the leader of King Jabin's army. He will go to the Kishon River with his great army and all their chariots. I will put them all under your power.” ’" 
Judges4:8 Barak said to Deborah, ‘I will go if you will come with me. But if you do not agree to go, I will not go either.’" 
Judges4:9 Deborah said, ‘Yes, I will go with you. But you will not receive honour for the battle. Instead, the Lord will put Sisera under the power of a woman.’ So Deborah went with Barak to Kedesh." 
Judges4:10 Barak told the men from Zebulun and Naphtali to go with him to Kedesh. 10,000 men came to follow him. Deborah also went with him." 
Judges4:11 Heber was a Kenite man who did not live with the other Kenites. The Kenites were descendants of Hobab, the father of Moses' wife. Heber was living in a tent beside the big tree in Zaanannim, near Kedesh." 
Judges4:12 Sisera heard news that Abinoam's son Barak had gone up to Mount Tabor. 
Judges4:13 So he gave a command to all his soldiers. He told them to go with him from Harosheth Haggoyim to the Kishon River. They had 900 iron chariots. 
Judges4:14 Then Deborah said to Barak, ‘Get ready! This is the day that the Lord will put Sisera under your power! The Lord will lead you into battle!’ So Barak led his 10,000 soldiers down from Mount Tabor." 
Judges4:15 When they started to attack, the Lord caused Sisera and all his army with their chariots to have great trouble. The Israelites chased them with their swords. Sisera jumped off his chariot and he ran away." 
Judges4:16 Barak and his soldiers chased after Sisera's army and their chariots. They chased them to Harosheth Haggoyim. They killed Sisera's whole army. Not one of their soldiers was still alive! 
Judges4:17 Sisera himself ran to hide in the tent of Heber's wife, Jael. He did that because King Jabin of Hazor had agreed to be friends with Heber's family." 
Judges4:18 Jael came out of her tent to say ‘hello’ to Sisera. She said to him, ‘Please come into my tent, sir. You can rest safely here. Do not be afraid.’ So Sisera went into her tent to rest. Jael put a cloth over him." 
Judges4:19 Sisera said to her, ‘I am thirsty. Please give me some water to drink.’ Jael gave him some milk from a leather bottle. Then she covered him again with the cloth." 
Judges4:20 Sisera said to her, ‘Stand at the door of your tent and watch. If someone comes to ask if anyone is here, say, “No.” ’" 
Judges4:21 But Heber's wife Jael got a tent peg and a hammer. Sisera was very tired and he was sleeping. Jael used the hammer to hit the peg into the side of Sisera's head. The peg went through his head into the ground. Sisera died. 
Judges4:22 Barak had been chasing Sisera. Jael went out of her tent to say ‘hello’ to him. She said to Barak, ‘Come here! I will show you the man that you are looking for.’ Barak went with her into the tent. He saw Sisera there. He was lying on the ground and he was dead. Barak saw the peg that had gone through Sisera's head." 
Judges4:23 On that day, God caused King Jabin of Canaan to be very ashamed because the Israelites had won against his army." 
Judges4:24 From that time, the Israelite army became stronger, and King Jabin became weaker. Finally, the Israelites destroyed him." 
Judges5:1 On that day Deborah and Abinoam's son Barak sang this song: 
Judges5:2 ‘The leaders of Israel led their people out. The people were happy to follow them to the battle. Praise the Lord! 
Judges5:3 Hear this, you kings! Listen, you rulers! I will sing to worship the Lord. Yes, I will praise him with a song. He is the Lord, Israel's God." 
Judges5:4 Lord, you came from the mountains of Seir. Yes, you marched from the land of Edom. As you came, the earth shook. Rain poured down from the clouds in the sky." 
Judges5:5 The mountains shook when you appeared, as they shook at Mount Sinai when you showed your power. You are the Lord, the God of Israel." 
Judges5:6 When Anath's son Shamgar ruled the land, nobody travelled on the roads. When Jael ruled, people walked on secret paths, because they were afraid." 
Judges5:7 Nobody lived in the small villages. Then I, Deborah, became their leader. I became like a mother for Israel's people, to keep them safe." 
Judges5:8 When the Israelites chose new gods to worship, enemies attacked their cities. No one in Israel was ready to fight. Not one of their 40,000 soldiers had a shield or a spear." 
Judges5:9 I thank God for Israel's leaders, and the people who are ready to fight our enemies. Praise the Lord!" 
Judges5:10 Listen to me, you rich people who ride on white donkeys, with beautiful cloths to sit on. And you people who walk along the road, you should listen too!" 
Judges5:11 Listen to the voices of the singers near the wells of water. They sing about the great things that the Lord has done. They tell how Israel's soldiers have won against their enemies. Then the Lord 's people marched down to the city gates. 
Judges5:12 “Wake up, Deborah! Wake up and sing a song! Get up, Barak, son of Abinoam! Take your enemies away as your prisoners.”" 
Judges5:13 The faithful men who remained returned to their leaders. The Lord 's people came to me. They were ready to fight against our enemies. 
Judges5:14 Some men of Ephraim's tribe came to help, from the land where Amalek lived. They followed men of Benjamin's tribe, with their soldiers. Leaders also came from Makir. Army officers came from Zebulun's tribe." 
Judges5:15 The leaders of Issachar's tribe were with Deborah. Yes, the men of Issachar joined with Barak. Barak led them into the valley. But the men of Reuben's tribe could not decide what to do." 
Judges5:16 Instead, they stayed to take care of their sheep. Did they want to listen to the shepherds as they called out to their sheep? The clans of Reuben's tribe could not agree what they should do." 
Judges5:17 The men of Gilead stayed at home, on the east side of the Jordan River. The men of Dan's tribe stayed with their ships. The men of Asher's tribe also stayed in their homes near the sea." 
Judges5:18 But the men of Zebulun's tribe were not afraid to die in war. The men of Naphtali's tribe were also ready to attack the enemy. 
Judges5:19 Kings of Canaan came and they fought against us. They attacked us at Taanach, near the stream at Megiddo. But they could not take any valuable silver from us." 
Judges5:20 Even the stars fought against Sisera! They travelled across the sky to attack him. 
Judges5:21 The Kishon River carried away Sisera's soldiers. It used its power to stop them. So I will be brave and I will continue to fight! 
Judges5:22 As for the horses of Sisera's army, their feet made a loud noise as they ran away." 
Judges5:23 The Lord 's angel says, “ Punish Meroz! Punish the people who live there, because they did not come to help the Lord. They did not agree to fight against the Lord 's strong enemy.”" 
Judges5:24 But Jael should receive great honour! Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, should receive more honour than all other women who live in tents." 
Judges5:25 Sisera asked her for water to drink, and she gave him milk. She gave him the best cream in a beautiful bowl." 
Judges5:26 She took a tent peg in her left hand. She took a worker's hammer in her right hand. She hit the peg through Sisera's head. She broke his skull. She broke it completely. She knocked the sharp peg through his head. 
Judges5:27 He fell to the floor at her feet. He lay there and he did not move. He died at the place where he fell. Jael had killed him! 
Judges5:28 Sisera's mother looked out from the window of her house. She waited for Sisera to return. She said, “His chariot has taken a long time to come! Why do I not yet hear the sound of his horse's feet?”" 
Judges5:29 Her wise ladies replied, and she herself thought the same thing:" 
Judges5:30 “They are taking valuable things from their enemies. They are sharing the things between them. Each soldier will bring one or two women for himself. Sisera's share will be some beautiful cloth. Yes, he is bringing pieces of valuable cloth, and a beautiful necklace for me! That is why he is so late to return home.”" 
Judges5:31 I pray that all your enemies will die as Sisera died, Lord! But I pray that those who love you will shine brightly. May they be strong like the sun at dawn.’ After that, there was peace in Israel for 40 years." 
Judges6:1 The Israelites did things that the Lord saw were evil. So the Lord put them under the power of the Midianites for seven years. 
Judges6:2 The Midianites used their power to be cruel to the Israelites. The Israelites built huts in the hills to live in. They hid themselves in caves and in other safe places. 
Judges6:3 When they planted seeds to grow food, their enemies would attack them. The Midianites, Amalekites and people from the east would come to rob them." 
Judges6:4 They made their camps on Israel's land. They took all the Israelites' crops, as far south as Gaza. They left nothing for the Israelites to eat. They took away their sheep, cows and donkeys." 
Judges6:5 The groups of enemies came with their animals. They put up their tents all across the land. They came like a cloud of locusts. They were too many to count as they arrived on their camels. They took everything that grew on the land. 
Judges6:6 Because of the Midianites, the Israelites became poor and weak. So they called out to the Lord for help." 
Judges6:7 When the Israelites asked the Lord to rescue them from the Midianites," 
Judges6:8 he sent a prophet to them. The prophet said to them, ‘This is what the Lord, Israel's God, says: “I brought you out of Egypt, where you were slaves." 
Judges6:9 I saved you from the power of the Egyptians and all those who were cruel to you. I chased away your enemies and I gave their land to you. 
Judges6:10 I said to you, ‘I am the Lord your God. You are now living in the land of the Amorites, but you must not worship their gods.’ But you have not obeyed me.” ’" 
Judges6:11 The Lord 's angel came to sit under a big oak tree in Ophrah. It belonged to Joash, from Abiezer's clan. When the angel arrived, Joash's son Gideon was threshing wheat. He was doing it in a winepress because he wanted to hide his food from the Midianites." 
Judges6:12 The Lord 's angel appeared to Gideon. He said to him, ‘The Lord is with you, brave fighter.’" 
Judges6:13 Gideon replied, ‘But sir, if the Lord is with us, why has all this trouble happened to us? Our ancestors told us about all the great things that the Lord did for them. They told us how he brought them safely out of Egypt. But the Lord has not helped us like that. He has turned away from us. He has put us under the power of the Midianites.’" 
Judges6:14 The Lord himself then said to Gideon, ‘Go now and use the strength that you have. Rescue Israel from the power of the Midianites. I myself am sending you to do this.’" 
Judges6:15 Gideon said, ‘But sir, how can I rescue Israel? Look at me! My clan is the weakest in the tribe of Manasseh. And I am the youngest person in my family.’" 
Judges6:16 The Lord answered him, ‘Understand that I will be with you! You will destroy the Midianites as if they were only one man.’" 
Judges6:17 Gideon replied, ‘If you are pleased with me, please do something special. I want to know that you really are the Lord who is speaking to me." 
Judges6:18 Please stay here so that I can bring a gift for you.’ The Lord answered, ‘I will stay here until you come back.’" 
Judges6:19 Gideon went home and he cooked a young goat. He also used an ephah of flour to make some flat bread. He put the meat in a basket and he put the soup in a pot. He took the food to the one who was sitting under the oak tree. 
Judges6:20 God's angel said to him, ‘Put the meat and the bread on this rock. Pour the soup over them.’ Gideon did what the angel told him to do." 
Judges6:21 Then the Lord 's angel touched the meat and the bread with the end of the stick that he held in his hand. Fire came from the rock and it burned up the meat and the bread. Then the Lord 's angel disappeared. 
Judges6:22 Gideon realized that he had been talking to the Lord 's angel. He cried out, ‘Oh no! Almighty Lord, I have seen your angel, face to face.’" 
Judges6:23 But the Lord said to him, ‘Do not worry. Do not be afraid. You will not die because of this.’" 
Judges6:24 So Gideon built an altar there to give honour to the Lord. He called it ‘The Lord is peace ’. The altar is still there, in Ophrah, on the land of Abiezer's clan." 
Judges6:25 On the same night, the Lord said to Gideon, ‘Take your father's bull from among his animals. Also take a second bull, one that is seven years old. Use them to pull down your father's altar to Baal. Also cut down the Asherah pole that is there." 
Judges6:26 Then build an altar in their place to give honour to the Lord your God. Build it in the proper way, on top of that hill. Then use the wood from the Asherah pole to burn the second bull as a burnt offering to me.’" 
Judges6:27 So Gideon took ten of his servants, and he did what the Lord had said. He was afraid of the people in his father's family and the men of the town. So he did this at night, not in the day." 
Judges6:28 Early the next morning, the men of the town saw that someone had destroyed Baal's altar. They saw that someone had cut down the Asherah pole. They saw that someone had burned the second bull as a sacrifice on a new altar." 
Judges6:29 They asked each other, ‘Who has done this?’ They asked many people until someone told them, ‘Joash's son Gideon has done this.’" 
Judges6:30 Then the men of the town said to Joash, ‘Bring Gideon out of your house. We must punish him with death. He has destroyed Baal's altar, and he has cut down the Asherah pole that was beside it.’" 
Judges6:31 Joash said to the angry men who were against him, ‘Are you trying to save Baal because he is in trouble? Why should you do that? Anyone who tries to help Baal will die before tomorrow arrives. If Baal really is a god, he should fight for himself. It is his altar that someone has pulled down!’" 
Judges6:32 So after that, people called Gideon ‘Jerub-Baal’. That was because Joash had said, ‘Baal should fight for himself. He himself should punish the person who pulled down his altar.’" 
Judges6:33 At that time, the Midianites, Amalekites and people of the east made an agreement to fight together. They went across the Jordan River and they made their camp in the Jezreel Valley." 
Judges6:34 Then the Lord 's Spirit came to Gideon with power. Gideon made a loud noise with a trumpet. He called the men of Abiezer's clan to follow him. 
Judges6:35 He sent men to take a message to Manasseh's tribe. He told them to send their men to join him. He also told the men of the tribes of Asher, Zebulun and Naphtali to come and join him too. They all came to meet with Gideon." 
Judges6:36 Gideon said to God, ‘I want to know that you will do what you have promised to me. If you will really use me to rescue Israel, please show me that it is true." 
Judges6:37 I will do this: I will put the wool of a sheep's skin out on the stone floor. During the night, please cause the dew to make it wet. If it is wet but the ground around it is dry, I will know that it is true. You will use me to rescue Israel, as you have promised.’" 
Judges6:38 That is what happened. When Gideon got up the next morning, the wool was wet. Gideon squeezed water out of it. It was enough to fill a bowl!" 
Judges6:39 Then Gideon said to God. ‘Please do not be angry with me. Let me ask you to do one more thing. I will put out the sheep's wool again to see what happens. This time please make the ground wet with dew, but keep only the wool dry.’" 
Judges6:40 That night God did what Gideon had asked. The sheep's wool was dry, but the ground around it was wet with dew." 
Judges7:1 Gideon and his army got up the next morning. They marched to the spring of water at Harod. They made their camp near there. The Midianite army made their camp in the valley near the hill of Moreh. They were north of the Israelite army. 
Judges7:2 The Lord said to Gideon, ‘You have too many men in your army. When I put the Midianites under your power, your soldiers may boast about their own strength. They may say that they have won the battle themselves." 
Judges7:3 So say to the men, “If you are very afraid of the battle and you are shaking with fear, you may go.” ’ So 22,000 men left that place and they went home. But 10,000 soldiers remained with Gideon." 
Judges7:4 Then the Lord said to Gideon, ‘There are still too many men. Take them to the spring of water to drink. I will test them for you there. If I say, “This man should go with you,” then take him. But if I say, “This man should not go with you,” then do not take him.’" 
Judges7:5 So Gideon took the men to the spring of water. The Lord said to Gideon, ‘Put the men who use their tongues to drink like a dog in one group. Put the men who go down on their knees to drink in another group.’" 
Judges7:6 300 men used their tongues to drink the water. The other men all went down on their knees to drink. 
Judges7:7 The Lord said to Gideon, ‘I will use those 300 men to rescue you and put the Midianites under your power. Let all the other men return to their homes.’" 
Judges7:8 Gideon kept the 300 men with him. He took the food and trumpets from the other men and he gave it to the 300 men. Then Gideon sent the other men home. The camp of the Midianite army was in the valley below the Israelites. 
Judges7:9 That night the Lord said to Gideon, ‘Get up now. Go down and attack the camp of the Midianites. I have put them under your power." 
Judges7:10 But if you are afraid to attack them now, take your servant Purah down to their camp." 
Judges7:11 Listen to what the Midianites are saying to each other. That will make you brave enough to attack them.’ So Gideon took Purah with him to the edge of the Midianite army's camp, where they had guards." 
Judges7:12 The valley was full of Midianites, Amalekites and all the people from the east. They covered the ground like locusts. There were too many men to count. Their camels also were more than the sand on the shore of the sea." 
Judges7:13 When Gideon came nearer, he heard a Midianite soldier tell his friend about a dream. The soldier said, ‘In my dream, I saw a loaf of bread that was rolling into our camp. It hit one of our tents and it knocked the tent down to the ground!’" 
Judges7:14 The other soldier replied, ‘This dream is telling us about Joash's son Gideon, the leader of the Israelites. It shows us that he has the power to kill us. God has put Midian and all our army under his power!’" 
Judges7:15 When Gideon heard this news about the dream and its meaning, he praised God. He returned to the Israelites' camp. He shouted to his men, ‘Get up now! The Lord has put Midian's army under your power!’" 
Judges7:16 He divided his 300 men into three separate groups. He gave a trumpet and an empty pot to each soldier. Each man put a burning branch into his pot. 
Judges7:17 Gideon said to his men, ‘Watch me carefully. When we get near to the enemy's camp, you must do the same thing that I do." 
Judges7:18 You will be all around the camp. I and my group of men will make a noise with our trumpets. Then you must also make a noise with your trumpets. Then shout, “We are fighting for the Lord and for Gideon!” ’" 
Judges7:19 Gideon took 100 men with him to the edge of the Midianites' camp. It was the middle of the night. A new group of Midianite guards had just started their work. Gideon's men made a loud noise with their trumpets. They also broke the pots that they were holding. 
Judges7:20 Then all three groups of Israelite soldiers made a noise with their trumpets that they held in their right hands. They broke their pots and they held their burning branches in their left hands. Then they shouted, ‘Fight for the Lord and for Gideon!’" 
Judges7:21 They all stood in their places around the Midianites' camp. Then the whole Midianite army ran away! They were shouting as they ran as fast as they could run. 
Judges7:22 When Gideon's 300 men made a noise with their trumpets, it confused the Midianites everywhere in their camp. The Lord caused them to attack one another with their swords. Their army ran away to Beth Shittah, on the road towards Zererah. They ran as far as the border of Abel Meholah, near Tabbath." 
Judges7:23 Then Gideon told men from the tribes of Naphtali, Asher and Manasseh to chase the Midianites." 
Judges7:24 Then Gideon sent men to the hill country of Ephraim with this message: ‘Come down to the valleys and stop the Midianites from escaping. Put guards on all the places where people go across the streams and rivers. Do that on the Jordan River as far as Beth Barah.’ So all the men of Ephraim's tribe came together. They put guards on the Jordan River and the streams, as far as Beth Barah." 
Judges7:25 They caught the two leaders of the Midianite army, Oreb and Zeeb. They killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb. They killed Zeeb at the winepress of Zeeb. They continued to chase the Midianites. They took the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon, who was now on the east side of the Jordan River." 
Judges8:1 The men of Ephraim's tribe asked Gideon, ‘Why have you insulted us? You should have called us to join with you to fight against the Midianites.’ They were very angry and they argued with Gideon." 
Judges8:2 Gideon said to them, ‘What you did in the fight was more important than what I was able to do. My family started the battle, but your tribe finished the job!" 
Judges8:3 God chose you to take power over the leaders of Midian's army. You killed Oreb and Zeeb! Nothing that I did was as great as that!’ When Gideon said that, the men of Ephraim stopped being angry." 
Judges8:4 Gideon and his 300 men were weak and tired. But they went across the Jordan and they continued to chase the Midianites. 
Judges8:5 Gideon said to the men of Succoth, ‘Please give my soldiers some food to eat. They are very tired. We are chasing the kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, to catch them.’" 
Judges8:6 The city leaders of Succoth said, ‘You have not yet caught Zebah and Zalmunna. We will not give you any food until you have done that.’" 
Judges8:7 Gideon replied, ‘Because you say that, I will return here. When the Lord has put Zebah and Zalmunna under my power, I will come back to punish you. I will beat you with thorn branches that will tear your skin to pieces!’" 
Judges8:8 Gideon continued his journey to Peniel. He asked their people for food too. But they gave him the same answer as the men of Succoth. 
Judges8:9 Gideon also warned the men of Peniel, ‘When I have won the fight against my enemies, I will return. Then I will destroy your strong tower.’" 
Judges8:10 Zebah and Zalmunna had 15,000 men with them in Karkor. They were the only men left of their great army from the east. 120,000 of their soldiers had died in the battle." 
Judges8:11 Gideon went along a road near the desert. It was east of Nobah and Jogbehah. He attacked the enemy's army by surprise. 
Judges8:12 The two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, ran away. Gideon chased after them and he caught them. The whole Midianite army ran away in fear." 
Judges8:13 Then Gideon left the place of the battle to return home. He went along the road across Heres hills. 
Judges8:14 He caught a young man who came from Succoth. He asked him about the leaders of Succoth. The young man wrote down the names of 77 leaders and officers of the city. 
Judges8:15 Gideon went to Succoth with Zebah and Zalmunna. He said to the leaders, ‘Now I have brought these kings to you! You insulted me! You said, “We will not give your tired men any food until you have caught Zebah and Zalmunna.” ’" 
Judges8:16 Then Gideon took hold of Succoth's leaders. He beat them with thorn branches to punish them. 
Judges8:17 He also went to Peniel and he destroyed their tower. He killed the men of that city. 
Judges8:18 Then Gideon said to Zebah and Zalmunna, ‘Tell me about the men that you killed at Tabor. What kind of men were they?’ The kings answered, ‘They were like you. They looked like the sons of kings.’" 
Judges8:19 Gideon said, ‘Those were my brothers, my own mother's sons. If you had not killed my brothers, I would not kill you. I promise you that, as surely as the Lord lives.’" 
Judges8:20 Gideon said to his oldest son, Jether, ‘Kill them now!’ But Jether was only a boy. He was too afraid to do anything." 
Judges8:21 Zebah and Zalmunna said to Gideon, ‘Kill us yourself! Let us see if you are brave enough to do that!’ So Gideon did kill them. He took away the silver images from the necks of their camels." 
Judges8:22 After that, the Israelites said to Gideon, ‘Rule over us as our king! You, your son and your grandson should rule us. You have rescued us from Midian's power.’" 
Judges8:23 But Gideon said to them, ‘I will not agree to rule over you. Nor will my son rule over you. The Lord will rule over you.’" 
Judges8:24 Gideon also said, ‘I will ask you only to do one thing for me. Each of you should give me one ear-ring from the things that you took from our enemies.’ (The Midianites wore gold ear-rings because they were descendants of Ishmael.)" 
Judges8:25 The people replied, ‘We are happy to give them to you.’ So they put a coat on the ground. Each man threw a ring onto it." 
Judges8:26 The weight of all the rings was 20 kilograms. They also had valuable silver images and jewels. They had valuable clothes that the kings of Midian wore and necklaces from the camels. 
Judges8:27 Gideon used the gold to make an image of an ephod. He put it in Ophrah, where he lived. All the Israelites came there and they worshipped the image. It caused them to turn away from the true God. It became like a trap that caught Gideon and his family." 
Judges8:28 The Israelites now had complete power over the Midianites. The Midianites were too ashamed to fight against them. While Gideon was alive, the land of Israel had peace for 40 years." 
Judges8:29 Then Gideon went back home to live. 
Judges8:30 He had many wives. They gave birth to 70 sons for him. 
Judges8:31 Gideon also had a slave wife who lived in Shechem. She gave birth to a son for him. Gideon called him Abimelech. 
Judges8:32 Joash's son Gideon died when he was very old. People buried him in the grave of his father, Joash. That was in Ophrah, on the land of Abiezer's clan." 
Judges8:33 Soon after Gideon died, the Israelites stopped being faithful to the Lord. They started to worship the idols of Baal again. They chose Baal-Berith to be their new god." 
Judges8:34 They no longer served the Lord their God. They forgot that he had saved them from all the enemies who lived around them. 
Judges8:35 The Israelites did not remain faithful to Gideon's family either. They did not remember all the good things that he had done to help Israel. 
Judges9:1 Gideon's son Abimelech went to Shechem to speak to his mother's brothers. He said to them and to her family's clan," 
Judges9:2 ‘Say this to the leaders of Shechem: “You should not agree to let all of Gideon's 70 sons rule over you. It would be better for you to have only one man rule over you. Remember that I belong to your own family.” ’ 
Judges9:3 Abimelech's mother's family told the men of Shechem what Abimelech had said. They agreed that Abimelech would be a good ruler for them. They said, ‘He is our brother.’" 
Judges9:4 So they gave him 70 pieces of silver from the temple of their god, Baal-Berith. Abimelech used this money to pay some wicked men to help him." 
Judges9:5 He went to his father's home in Ophrah. He killed his 70 brothers, the sons of Gideon. He killed them all on one rock. But Jotham, Gideon's youngest son, hid himself and he escaped." 
Judges9:6 Then the leaders of Shechem and Beth Millo met together. They took Abimelech to the oak tree near the pillar of rock in Shechem. There they made Abimelech king. 
Judges9:7 When Jotham heard the news of what had happened, he climbed to the top of Mount Gerizim. He stood there and he shouted to the people, ‘Leaders of Shechem, listen to me! Then perhaps God will listen to you." 
Judges9:8 One day, the trees decided to choose a king for themselves. They said to the olive tree, “Be our king.”" 
Judges9:9 But the olive tree replied, “My oil pleases men and even the gods. I will not stop making my oil so that I can rule over all you other trees!”" 
Judges9:10 Then the trees said to the fig tree, “Come and be our king.”" 
Judges9:11 The fig tree replied, “I will not stop making my good, sweet figs so that I can rule over you.”" 
Judges9:12 Then the trees said to the vine, “Come and be our king.”" 
Judges9:13 But the vine answered, “ Wine from my grapes makes gods and people happy. I will not stop making wine so that I can rule over you.”" 
Judges9:14 Finally, the trees said to the thorn bush, “Come and be our king.”" 
Judges9:15 The thorn bush said to the trees, “If you really want to choose me as your king, come here. Hide under my branches to keep safe. If not, I will cause fire to come out from the thorn bush. It will burn up all the big cedar trees in Lebanon!”" 
Judges9:16 When you chose Abimelech to be your king, you have not been faithful to Gideon and his family. You have not given Gideon the honour that he deserves." 
Judges9:17 My father Gideon fought to save you. He did not try to keep his own life safe. He rescued you from the power of the Midianites. 
Judges9:18 But you have turned against my father's family today. You killed his 70 sons on one rock. You have made Abimelech king because he belongs to your family. He is the son of my father's slave wife. 
Judges9:19 If you have really been faithful to Gideon and his family today, I pray that Abimelech will make you happy! I pray that you will make Abimelech happy, too!" 
Judges9:20 But if you have not been faithful, I pray that Abimelech will destroy you! I pray that his fire will completely burn up the leaders of Shechem and Beth Millo. And I pray that fire from those leaders will completely destroy Abimelech!’" 
Judges9:21 After he said that, Jotham ran away to Beer. He lived there because he was afraid of his brother, Abimelech." 
Judges9:22 Abimelech ruled Israel for three years. 
Judges9:23 Then God caused the leaders of Shechem to turn against Abimelech. They were no longer friends. 
Judges9:24 God did this to punish Abimelech because he had killed his brothers, Gideon's 70 sons. The leaders of Shechem were also guilty for their murder, because they had helped Abimelech." 
Judges9:25 The leaders of Shechem no longer obeyed Abimelech. They sent men to hide in the hills near Shechem. Those men robbed everyone who travelled on that road. But someone told Abimelech about this. 
Judges9:26 Ebed's son Gaal went to live in Shechem with his brothers. The leaders of Shechem started to trust Gaal as their leader. 
Judges9:27 They went out of the city to pick grapes in their fields. They squeezed the grapes to make wine. They went to the temple of their god and they had a party. They ate a lot of food and they drank a lot of wine. At their party, they cursed Abimelech." 
Judges9:28 Gaal said, ‘Why does Abimelech think he is so great? There is no reason why the people of Shechem should serve him! He is a son of Gideon and he does not really belong here. Zebul only serves Abimelech as his officer. Instead we should be faithful to Hamor's descendants. He is the ancestor of Shechem's clan." 
Judges9:29 If I were the leader of these people, I would remove Abimelech as king. I would say to him, “Make your army strong and try to fight against us!” ’" 
Judges9:30 Some people told Zebul, the town's officer, what Gaal had said. Zebul was very angry when he heard this." 
Judges9:31 He sent men secretly to Abimelech with a message. They told him, ‘Ebed's son Gaal and his brothers have come to live in Shechem. They are causing the people of the city to turn against you." 
Judges9:32 So you must come here in the night with your men. Hide in the fields outside the city. 
Judges9:33 When the sun rises in the morning, quickly attack the city. When Gaal and his men come out to fight, you can do to them whatever you want.’" 
Judges9:34 So Abimelech and all his soldiers came out at night. They hid in four groups outside Shechem. 
Judges9:35 The next morning, Gaal stood beside the city gate. Abimelech and his men came out from the places where they were hiding." 
Judges9:36 Gaal saw them. He said to Zebul, ‘Look! There are men coming down from the tops of the hills.’ Zebul replied, ‘No, you are wrong. You can see shadows in the hills. They only look like men.’" 
Judges9:37 Gaal said again, ‘Look! I can really see men who are coming down from the middle of the land. There is another group of men who are coming along the road from the Diviner's Oak Tree.’" 
Judges9:38 Then Zebul said to Gaal, ‘What has happened to your proud words now? You boasted when you said, “Abimelech is nobody! We should not serve him.” Here are the men that you insulted as useless! So now go out and fight them!’" 
Judges9:39 Gaal led the men of Shechem out of the city to fight against Abimelech. 
Judges9:40 Abimelech chased after him. Gaal and his men ran back to the city. But Abimelech and his men caught and killed many of them before they reached the city gate. 
Judges9:41 Abimelech went back to live in Arumah. Zebul made Gaal and his brothers leave Shechem. 
Judges9:42 The next day, the people of Shechem went out into the fields around the city. Abimelech heard about this." 
Judges9:43 He took his men with him. He made them hide in three groups in the fields. When he saw the people coming out of the city, he and his men attacked them." 
Judges9:44 Abimelech and his group of soldiers ran to stand at the city gate. They stopped people going back into the city. The other two groups attacked the people in the fields and killed them. 
Judges9:45 Abimelech attacked the city all that day. He took the city and he killed all the people who lived there. Then he destroyed the city. He put salt all over it as a curse. 
Judges9:46 The city's leaders who lived in the tower of Shechem heard the news. They went to hide in the strong building of El-Berith's temple. 
Judges9:47 Somebody told Abimelech that all the leaders were there together in the temple. 
Judges9:48 He took all his men up to Mount Zalmon. He used an axe to cut some branches off a tree. He put the branches on his shoulders. Then he said to his men, ‘Be quick! Do the same thing as you have seen me do!’" 
Judges9:49 So all the men cut branches and they followed Abimelech. They put the branches around the strong building. Then they brought fire to burn down the building. There were about 1,000 men and women in the tower of Shechem. They all died in the fire." 
Judges9:50 Then Abimelech and his men went to Thebez. They made their camp around the city to attack it. 
Judges9:51 There was a strong tower in the middle of the city. All the leaders of the city, as well as all the men and women, ran there to hide. They locked the door. They went up onto the roof of the tower." 
Judges9:52 Abimelech and his men came to attack the tower. Abimelech went near to the door of the tower, to put a fire there." 
Judges9:53 A woman on the roof dropped a heavy rock down on his head. It broke Abimelech's skull. 
Judges9:54 Abimelech quickly said to the young man who carried his weapons, ‘Take hold of your sword and kill me! I do not want people to say that a woman killed me!’ So the young man killed him with his sword." 
Judges9:55 When the Israelites saw that Abimelech was dead, they went home." 
Judges9:56 That was how God punished Abimelech. He had done an evil thing against his father when he killed his 70 brothers. 
Judges9:57 God was also punishing the people of Shechem for the evil things that they had done. When Gideon's son Jotham had cursed them, he said that these things would happen." 
Judges10:1 After Abimelech's death, another man became Israel's leader, to rescue them. He was Tola, the son of Puah and grandson of Dodo. He belonged to Issachar's tribe. He lived in Shamir, in the hill country of Ephraim." 
Judges10:2 Tola led Israel for 23 years. Then he died and they buried him in Shamir. 
Judges10:3 After Tola, Jair of Gilead became Israel's leader. He led Israel for 22 years." 
Judges10:4 He had 30 sons. They rode on 30 donkeys and they ruled 30 towns in Gilead. These towns are still called Havvoth-Jair (Jair's villages). 
Judges10:5 Then Jair died and they buried him in Kamon. 
Judges10:6 The Israelites again did things that the Lord saw were evil. They worshipped idols of Baal and Ashtoreth. They also worshipped the gods of Syria, Sidon and Moab, as well as the gods of the Ammonites and the Philistines. They turned away from the Lord and they did not serve him any more." 
Judges10:7 The Lord became angry with the Israelites. He put them under the power of the Ammonites and the Philistines. 
Judges10:8 That year they attacked the Israelites who lived in the Gilead region, on the east side of the Jordan River. That was the land where the Amorites lived. They were cruel to the Israelites for 18 years." 
Judges10:9 Then the Ammonites went across the Jordan River to fight against the tribes of Judah, Benjamin and Ephraim. The Israelites were in a lot of trouble." 
Judges10:10 Then the Israelites called out to the Lord for help. They said, ‘We have turned against you. We have worshipped the idols of Baal instead of you.’" 
Judges10:11 The Lord replied, ‘I have saved you many times when you called to me for help. I saved you from the power of the Egyptians, the Amorites, the Ammonites, the Philistines, the Sidonians, the Amalekites and the Midianites." 
Judges10:12  
Judges10:13 But now you have turned away from me and you worship other gods instead. So I will not rescue you again. 
Judges10:14 Go and ask those other gods to help you! They are the gods that you have chosen, so let them rescue you from your trouble!’" 
Judges10:15 But the Israelites said to the Lord, ‘We are guilty. Punish us in whatever way you think is right, but please rescue us now.’" 
Judges10:16 Then they threw away all the idols of foreign gods that they had been worshipping. They began to worship the Lord again. Finally, the Lord decided to help them, because he saw how upset they were." 
Judges10:17 The Ammonite army came to Gilead and they made their camp there. The Israelite army also came and they made their camp in Mizpah. 
Judges10:18 The leaders of the people of Gilead asked each other, ‘Who will lead us to attack the Ammonites? Any man who agrees to do that will become the leader of everyone who lives in Gilead.’" 
Judges11:1 Jephthah of Gilead was a brave soldier. His father's name was Gilead, but his mother was a prostitute." 
Judges11:2 Gilead's wife also gave birth to sons for him. When they were older, they sent Jephthah away from the family home. They said to him, ‘You will not receive any of our father's things when he dies. You are the son of a prostitute, not our mother's son.’" 
Judges11:3 So Jephthah ran away from his brothers. He went to live in the land of Tob. Other men joined the group that Jephthah led. They did not obey any laws. 
Judges11:4 Some time later, the Ammonite soldiers came to fight against Israel." 
Judges11:5 When the Ammonites attacked, the leaders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah from the land of Tob." 
Judges11:6 They said to him, ‘Come and lead our army to fight against the Ammonites.’" 
Judges11:7 Jephthah said to them, ‘Before this, you hated me. You made me leave my father's house. So why do you come to me for help, now that you are in trouble?’" 
Judges11:8 The leaders of Gilead replied, ‘We really need you to help us. Please join us to fight against the Ammonites. Then we will make you the leader of everyone who lives in Gilead.’" 
Judges11:9 Jephthah said to them, ‘So, you are saying that I should come back home to fight with you against the Ammonites. You are saying that if the Lord gives them to me, I will be your leader. Is that really true?’" 
Judges11:10 The leaders of Gilead said, ‘We promise to do that. The Lord will judge between us if we do not do what you have said.’" 
Judges11:11 So Jephthah went back with them to Gilead. The people made him their ruler and leader of their army. In Mizpah, Jephthah repeated his promise to the Lord." 
Judges11:12 Jephthah sent men with a message to the Ammonite king. He asked, ‘Why have you come to fight against our people? What have we done to make you angry?’" 
Judges11:13 The Ammonite king answered Jephthah's men, ‘You Israelites came here from Egypt and you took our land on the east side of the Jordan River. You have taken for yourselves all our land from the Arnon River in the south to the Jabbok River in the north. You have taken it all, as far as the Jordan River in the west. Now give it back to us, so that we do not need to fight for it.’" 
Judges11:14 Jephthah sent the men back to the Ammonite king. 
Judges11:15 They said to him, ‘This is what Jephthah says: “Israel did not take for themselves the land of Moab, or the land of the Ammonites." 
Judges11:16 When the Israelites left Egypt, they went through the desert as far as the Red Sea. Then they travelled to Kadesh." 
Judges11:17 Then they sent a message to the king of Edom. They asked him, ‘Please let us travel through your land.’ But the king of Edom refused to let them do that. The Israelites sent the same message to the king of Moab. He also refused to agree. So the Israelites stayed at Kadesh." 
Judges11:18 Next, the Israelites went through the desert, around the edge of Edom and Moab. They arrived on the east side of Moab's land. They put up their tents on the other side of the Arnon River, which was the border of Moab's land. They did not go into Moab." 
Judges11:19 Sihon was the Amorite king who ruled in Heshbon. The Israelites sent a message to him. They asked him, ‘Please let us travel through your land to our own place.’" 
Judges11:20 But King Sihon did not trust the Israelites. He would not let them travel through his land. He brought his whole army to meet together at Jahaz. Then he fought against the Israelites. 
Judges11:21 The Lord, Israel's God, put Sihon and his whole army under the power of the Israelites. The Israelites won the fight against the Amorites. They took the Amorites' land for themselves." 
Judges11:22 The land went from the Arnon River in the south to the Jabbok River in the north. It went from the desert in the east to the Jordan River in the west. 
Judges11:23 You should realize that the Lord, Israel's God, chased out the Amorites. He has done that so that his own people, the Israelites, can live there. So why do you think that you can take it from them?" 
Judges11:24 You may take the land that your god Chemosh gives to you. We will live in the land that the Lord our God has given to us. 
Judges11:25 Do you think that you are better than Zippor's son Balak, king of Moab? He was not brave enough to argue with the Israelites or to fight against them." 
Judges11:26 Israelites have been living here for 300 years! They have lived in Heshbon and Aroer and the villages around those towns. They have lived in all the towns along the Arnon River too. In all that time, you have not tried to take back those places for yourselves." 
Judges11:27 I have not done anything to hurt you. You are the one who is doing something wrong if you attack us. The Lord himself is the judge! He will decide whether the Israelites or the Ammonites are doing what is right.” ’ 
Judges11:28 The Ammonite king refused to listen to the message that Jephthah had sent to him. 
Judges11:29 Then the Lord 's Spirit took hold of Jephthah. Jephthah travelled through the land of Gilead and of Manasseh. He arrived at Mizpah in Gilead and he prepared to fight against the Ammonites. 
Judges11:30 Jephthah promised the Lord, ‘Please let us win the battle against the Ammonites." 
Judges11:31 Then, when I return home safely, I will give you a burnt offering. Whatever is first to come out through the door of my house as I arrive, I will offer it to you as a sacrifice.’" 
Judges11:32 Then Jephthah went to attack the Ammonites. The Lord put them under his power. 
Judges11:33 Jephthah destroyed them all the way from Aroer to Minnith. He took 20 Ammonite cities, as far as Abel Keramim. He completely destroyed them! So the Israelites had complete power over the Ammonites." 
Judges11:34 After that, Jephthah returned to his home in Mizpah. As he arrived, his daughter came out to meet him. She was dancing and making music with a tambourine. She was Jephthah's only child. He had no other son or daughter." 
Judges11:35 When Jephthah saw her, he was so upset that he tore his clothes. He said, ‘Oh no! My daughter! You have made me very sad. I made a serious promise to the Lord and I must do what I promised.’" 
Judges11:36 She said to her father, ‘You have made a promise to the Lord. You must do to me what you told him you would do. The Lord gave you the power to punish your enemies, the Ammonites. So you must do what you promised him." 
Judges11:37 But please allow me to do this one thing. Let me walk in the hills with my friends for two months. I need time to be sad because I will die before I can marry a man.’ 
Judges11:38 Jephthah said, ‘You may go.’ He sent her away from home for two months. She and her friends walked in the hills. They wept together because she would never marry." 
Judges11:39 After two months she returned to her father, Jephthah. He did what he had promised to the Lord. His daughter never married." 
Judges11:40 Because of that, the young women of Israel now go into the hills for four days every year. They do that to remember the daughter of Jephthah, the man from Gilead." 
Judges12:1 The men of Ephraim's tribe joined together to make an army. They went across the Jordan River to Zaphon. They said to Jephthah, ‘Why did you go to fight against the Ammonites without us? You should have asked us to go with you. Now we will burn down your house with you inside it!’" 
Judges12:2 Jephthah replied, ‘I did ask for your help! That was when my people and I first had a quarrel with the Ammonites. But you refused to rescue us." 
Judges12:3 When I realized that you would not come to help us, we attacked the Ammonites ourselves. I put my life in danger. But the Lord put the Ammonites under my power. So why have you come to attack me now?’" 
Judges12:4 Jephthah brought together all the men of Gilead. They fought against the men of Ephraim's tribe. The men of Gilead won the fight. They were angry because the men of Ephraim had insulted them. They had said, ‘You people of Gilead have run away to live on the land of Ephraim and Manasseh.’" 
Judges12:5 After that, Gilead's army put guards at the places where people could go across the Jordan River. They wanted to stop people from Ephraim going across the river. If one of Ephraim's soldiers was trying to escape, they would ask him, ‘Do you belong to Ephraim's tribe?’ The man would say, ‘No, I do not!’" 
Judges12:6 Then they would tell him, ‘Say, “Shibboleth!” ’ People from Ephraim could not say that word properly. So if the man said, ‘Sibboleth,’ they would take hold of him and kill him. That day, they killed 42,000 soldiers of Ephraim at those places on the Jordan River." 
Judges12:7 Jephthah led Israel for six years. Then he died and they buried him in his own town in Gilead. 
Judges12:8 After Jephthah died, Ibzan of Bethlehem led Israel." 
Judges12:9 He had 30 sons and 30 daughters. He let his daughters marry men from other clans. He also brought 30 young women from other clans to marry his sons. Ibzan led Israel for seven years. 
Judges12:10 Then he died and they buried him in Bethlehem. 
Judges12:11 After he died, Elon from Zebulun led Israel for ten years." 
Judges12:12 Then Elon died and they buried him in Aijalon, a town in the land of Zebulun's tribe." 
Judges12:13 After Elon, Hillel's son Abdon led Israel. He came from Pirathon." 
Judges12:14 He had 40 sons and 30 grandsons. They rode on 70 donkeys. Abdon led Israel for eight years. 
Judges12:15 Then he died. They buried him at Pirathon, a town in the land of Ephraim's tribe. That was in the hill country of the Amalekites." 
Judges13:1 The Israelites again did things that the Lord saw were evil. So he put them under the power of the Philistines for 40 years. 
Judges13:2 There was a man who belonged to Dan's tribe. His name was Manoah and he lived in Zorah. His wife had no children and she could not give birth. 
Judges13:3 The Lord 's angel appeared to her. He said, ‘You have not been able to give birth to any children until now. But you will become pregnant and you will give birth to a son." 
Judges13:4 You must not drink any wine or any beer. You must not eat any food that is unclean. 
Judges13:5 Yes, you will give birth to a son. You must never cut the boy's hair. He is to be a Nazirite. He will belong to God from the time that he is born. He will begin to rescue the Israelites from the power of the Philistines.’" 
Judges13:6 The woman went quickly to tell her husband. She said, ‘A man of God came to me. He looked like an angel that God had sent with a message. I was afraid of him. I did not ask where he came from. He did not tell me his name." 
Judges13:7 He said to me, “You will become pregnant and you will give birth to a son. You must not drink any wine or beer. You must not eat any food that is unclean. The boy will belong to me as a Nazirite from his birth until the day that he dies!” ’" 
Judges13:8 Manoah prayed to the Lord, ‘ Lord, please send the man of God to come to us again. Let him teach us how we should take care of this boy who will be born.’" 
Judges13:9 God did what Manoah had asked. The angel came again to visit Manoah's wife. She was resting in the fields and her husband was not with her. 
Judges13:10 She ran to tell her husband, ‘Come quickly! The man who came to me the other day has appeared to me again!’" 
Judges13:11 Manoah got up and he followed his wife. When he met the man, he asked him, ‘Are you the man who talked to my wife?’ The man said, ‘Yes, I am.’" 
Judges13:12 Then Manoah asked him, ‘When what you promised happens, how should the boy live? What kind of work will he do?’" 
Judges13:13 The Lord 's angel answered, ‘Your wife must be careful to do everything that I told her." 
Judges13:14 She must not eat anything that comes from vines. She must not drink wine or beer. She must not eat any food that is unclean. She must obey everything that I have commanded her to do.’ 
Judges13:15 Manoah said to the Lord 's angel, ‘Please stay here with us. We would like to cook a young goat for you to eat.’" 
Judges13:16 The angel replied, ‘Even if I stay with you, I will not eat your food. But you may prepare a burnt offering as a sacrifice to the Lord.’ The angel said that because Manoah had not realized that he was the Lord 's angel." 
Judges13:17 Then Manoah asked the Lord 's angel, ‘What is your name? When what you have promised happens, we will want to give you honour.’" 
Judges13:18 The angel replied, ‘You should not ask what my name is. It is too great for you to understand.’" 
Judges13:19 Then Manoah took a young goat and a grain offering. He offered them on a rock as a sacrifice to the Lord. While Manoah and his wife watched, the Lord surprised them with a miracle." 
Judges13:20 As the flames of fire rose up from the sacrifice to the sky, the Lord 's angel went up in the flames. When Manoah and his wife saw this, they fell down with their faces towards the ground." 
Judges13:21 The Lord 's angel did not appear to them again. Manoah then realized that their visitor was the Lord 's own angel. 
Judges13:22 He said to his wife, ‘We are sure to die! We have seen God!’" 
Judges13:23 But his wife said to him, ‘The Lord accepted our burnt offering and our grain offering. He would not have done that if he wanted to kill us. He would not have shown us all these great things. He would not have told us about what will happen to us.’" 
Judges13:24 Manoah's wife gave birth to a son. She gave him the name Samson. The child grew to become a man, and the Lord blessed him." 
Judges13:25 The Lord 's Spirit began to give Samson strength when he was living in Mahaneh Dan. That place was between Zorah and Eshtaol. 
Judges14:1 One day Samson went to Timnah. Samson saw a young Philistine woman. 
Judges14:2 When he returned home, he said to his father and mother, ‘I have seen a young Philistine woman in Timnah and I want to marry her. Please get her for me as my wife.’" 
Judges14:3 His parents replied, ‘You do not need to go to the Philistines to get a wife. They are not the Lord 's people. There is surely someone among our own relatives or other Israelites that you would like to marry.’ But Samson said to his father, ‘You must get her for me. She is the right girl for me to marry.’" 
Judges14:4 Samson's parents did not realize that the Lord was causing this to happen. The Lord wanted to prepare a way for the Israelites to attack the Philistines, because the Philistines were ruling over Israel at that time." 
Judges14:5 Samson went to Timnah, and his parents went too. When he reached some vineyards near Timnah, an angry young lion ran out to attack him." 
Judges14:6 The Lord 's Spirit gave Samson great strength. He tore the lion into pieces with his hands. He made it seem very easy, as if he was killing a goat. But he did not tell his father or his mother what he had done." 
Judges14:7 Then Samson continued on his journey to Timnah. He spoke with the young woman, and she pleased him very much." 
Judges14:8 Some time later, Samson returned to Timnah to marry the young woman. He turned off the path to look at the lion's body. Inside it, there was a crowd of bees and some honey." 
Judges14:9 He took the honey out with his hands. He ate it as he walked along. Then he went to his parents. He gave some of the honey to them and they ate it. But he did not tell them that he had taken it from the body of the dead lion. 
Judges14:10 Then Samson's father went to Timnah for Samson's marriage. Samson prepared a party for the people there. All the young men did this when they married. 
Judges14:11 When the Philistines saw what Samson was doing, they sent 30 young men to be his friends." 
Judges14:12 Samson said to them, ‘Listen to this clever question. Try to give me an answer before my party finishes in seven days. If you answer the question, I will give you 30 linen shirts and 30 sets of clothes." 
Judges14:13 But if you cannot tell me the answer, you will give me 30 linen shirts and 30 sets of clothes.’ The young men said, ‘Tell us your question.’" 
Judges14:14 Samson said to them: ‘Out of the one who eats came something to eat. Out of the strong one came something sweet.’ After three days, the Philistine men could not find the answer." 
Judges14:15 On the fourth day they said to Samson's wife, ‘Find a way to make your husband tell you the answer. If you do not, we will use fire to destroy your father's house, with you inside it! Did you ask us to come to your marriage party to make us poor?’" 
Judges14:16 Then Samson's wife went to him and she wept. She said to him, ‘It seems that you hate me. You do not really love me. You have asked my friends a clever question, but you have not told me the answer.’ Samson said to her, ‘I have not told the answer even to my father or mother. So why should I tell you?’" 
Judges14:17 Samson's wife continued to weep like that all the days of the party. Finally, she gave him so much trouble that he told her the answer on the seventh day. Then she told the young men the answer to Samson's question." 
Judges14:18 Before sunset on the seventh day, the men of the town gave their answer to Samson: ‘There is nothing sweeter than honey! There is nothing stronger than a lion!’ Samson said to them, ‘You have used my young cow to do your work! Without her, you would not have found the answer to my question.’" 
Judges14:19 The Lord 's Spirit took hold of Samson. He went to Ashkelon and he killed 30 Philistine men there. He took all their clothes and he gave them to the 30 men who had answered his question. He was still very angry as he went back to his family's home. 
Judges14:20 Samson's wife became the wife of the man who had been his special friend at the party. 
Judges15:1 Later, Samson went to visit his wife at the time of the wheat harvest. He took a young goat with him as a gift. He said to her father, ‘I am going into my wife's room to sleep with her.’ But her father stopped him." 
Judges15:2 He said, ‘I was sure that you hated my daughter. So I have given her to your special friend to be his wife. Look at her younger sister. She is more beautiful. Take her as your wife, instead.’" 
Judges15:3 Samson said, ‘This time I will not be guilty when I punish the Philistines!’" 
Judges15:4 So he went out and he caught 300 foxes. He tied the foxes in pairs by their tails. He tied some dry grass to each pair of tails. 
Judges15:5 Then he lit the grass with fire. He made the foxes run through the fields where the wheat was growing. The fire destroyed all the Philistines' crops, whether they had already cut it down or not. The fire also destroyed their vines and their olive trees." 
Judges15:6 The Philistines asked, ‘Who did this?’ People said to them, ‘It was Samson, the man who married the young woman in Timnah. He did it because her father gave her to Samson's special friend instead of Samson.’ So the Philistines went and burned the man and his daughter to death." 
Judges15:7 Samson said to them, ‘Because you have done this, I will punish you. I will not stop until your punishment is complete.’" 
Judges15:8 He attacked them with great strength. He killed many of them. After that, Samson went to live in a cave in the rock of Etam." 
Judges15:9 The Philistine army went to attack Judah. They made their camp near Lehi and they prepared to fight. 
Judges15:10 The men of Judah asked them, ‘Why have you come to attack us?’ The Philistines replied, ‘We have come to catch Samson and take him as our prisoner. We need to punish him in the same way that he has punished us.’" 
Judges15:11 Then 3,000 men of Judah went to the cave where Samson was hiding. They said to him, ‘You know that the Philistines are our rulers. You are causing them to give us trouble.’ Samson said, ‘I have only done to them as they did to me.’" 
Judges15:12 The men of Judah said to him, ‘We have come to tie you up as our prisoner. We must let the Philistines take you away.’ Samson said, ‘Promise me that you will not kill me yourselves.’" 
Judges15:13 They said, ‘We agree. We will only tie you up and give you to them. We promise that we will not kill you.’ So they tied him up with two new ropes. They took him with them away from the cave." 
Judges15:14 When they arrived at Lehi, the Philistine soldiers shouted happily as they came towards him. But the Lord 's Spirit gave Samson great strength. The ropes that tied his arms broke in pieces. They seemed as weak as grass that burns in a fire. They fell from his hands." 
Judges15:15 He saw a bone from the skull of a donkey that had just died. He picked it up and he used it to kill 1,000 Philistine soldiers." 
Judges15:16 Then Samson sang this song: ‘I have used a donkey's skull to kill 1,000 men. I have made them like many heaps of dead donkeys!’" 
Judges15:17 After that, he threw away the bone from the donkey's skull. So people called that place ‘Ramath Lehi’." 
Judges15:18 Samson was now very thirsty. He called out to the Lord for help. He said, ‘You have helped me to win a great battle. Should I now die because I am so thirsty? Then these Philistines would do whatever they want to me.’" 
Judges15:19 So God caused a hole to open in the ground near Lehi. Water poured out of it. Samson drank some water and he became strong again. Samson called the spring of water ‘En Hakkore’. It is still there in Lehi. 
Judges15:20 Samson led Israel for 20 years while the Philistines continued to rule the land. 
Judges16:1 One day, Samson went to Gaza. He met a prostitute there and he slept with her." 
Judges16:2 The people of Gaza heard that Samson was in their city. The men met together and they waited for Samson to leave. They hid themselves all night at the gate of the city. They waited there quietly and they thought, ‘We will kill him at dawn when he tries to leave the city.’" 
Judges16:3 But Samson only stayed with the woman until the middle of the night. Then he got up and he went to leave through the city gate. He took hold of its doors and the two posts that held them. He pulled them all down together, with the metal bar that locked them. He carried them all in one piece on his shoulders. He left them at the top of the hill near Hebron." 
Judges16:4 Some time later, Samson met a woman who was called Delilah. She lived in Sorek Valley. Samson loved her." 
Judges16:5 The rulers of the Philistines went to visit Delilah. They said to her, ‘Do something clever to discover what makes Samson so strong. We want to find a way to take hold of him and tie him up. If you do that, we will each give you 1,100 pieces of silver.’" 
Judges16:6 So Delilah said to Samson, ‘Please tell me what makes you so strong. How could someone tie you up so that you become helpless?’" 
Judges16:7 Samson replied, ‘Someone would have to use seven new strings for bows. The strings must not have become dry. If they use those strings to tie me up, I will become weak, like other men.’" 
Judges16:8 So the Philistine rulers gave Delilah seven new strings for bows. She used them to tie Samson up while he was asleep. 
Judges16:9 Some Philistine men hid in a room of her house. Then she shouted, ‘Samson, the Philistines are here!’ But he broke the seven strings very easily. They were like thin string that burns in a fire. So they did not discover the secret about his strength." 
Judges16:10 Delilah said to Samson, ‘You have deceived me as if I was a fool! Tell me the truth! How can someone really make you weak?’" 
Judges16:11 Samson said to her, ‘They would have to use new ropes that no one has used. If they tie me up with those, I will become weak, like other men.’" 
Judges16:12 So Delilah took some new ropes and she tied Samson up with them. Some Philistine men were hiding in the room, as they did before. Then she shouted, ‘Samson, the Philistines are here!’ But he broke the ropes off his arms, as if they were thin string." 
Judges16:13 Then Delilah said to Samson, ‘You have deceived me again as if I was a fool. Now you must tell me the truth. Tell me how someone can make you weak.’ Samson replied, ‘You see that my long hair is tied in seven tails. You must tie them into the cloth that is on the loom. Fix them there very strongly. If you do that, I will become weak, like other men.’" 
Judges16:14 Delilah did this while Samson was asleep. She took the seven tails of his hair and she tied them into the cloth on the loom. She fixed them with a strong peg. Then she shouted, ‘Samson, the Philistines are here!’ He woke up and he pulled out the peg. He tore his hair away from the cloth on the loom so that he was free." 
Judges16:15 Then Delilah said to him, ‘I realize that you do not really love me, because you will not tell me your secret. You have deceived me three times, as if I was a fool. You have refused to tell me what makes you so strong.’" 
Judges16:16 She continued to say the same thing to Samson many times. Her words made Samson very upset. He felt that he wanted to die. 
Judges16:17 Finally, Samson told her his secret. He said to her, ‘No one has ever cut my hair. Even before I was born, I belonged to God as a Nazirite. If someone cuts off my hair, I would have no more strength. I would become as weak as any other man.’" 
Judges16:18 Delilah realized that Samson had told her the truth. So she sent a message to the rulers of the Philistines. She told them, ‘Samson has now told me his secret. So come back once more.’ So the Philistine rulers went to visit Delilah again. They took their pieces of silver with them." 
Judges16:19 Delilah made Samson sleep with his head on her knees. She called a man to come and he cut off the seven tails of Samson's hair. This made Samson helpless, so that he had no more strength." 
Judges16:20 Then Delilah shouted, ‘Samson, the Philistines are here!’ Samson woke up and he thought, ‘I will make myself free as I have always done before.’ But he did not realize that the Lord had gone away from him." 
Judges16:21 The Philistines took hold of Samson. They cut out his eyes. They tied him up with bronze chains. They made him do hard work as their prisoner. He had to push a heavy stone to make grain into flour. 
Judges16:22 But after they had cut off Samson's hair, it began to grow again." 
Judges16:23 One day, the rulers of the Philistines met together to have a big feast. They offered a great sacrifice to their god, Dagon. They said, ‘Dagon has put our enemy, Samson, under our power.’" 
Judges16:24 When the people saw what had happened to Samson, they praised their god. They said, ‘Our god has let us catch our enemy. He was the enemy who destroyed our land and who killed many of us.’" 
Judges16:25 The people were very happy at the feast. They shouted, ‘Bring Samson here for us to see him! He can help us to enjoy our party.’ So they brought Samson out of the prison. The people were happy to see him. They made him stand between the pillars of the temple." 
Judges16:26 A young man held Samson's hand to lead him. Samson said to him, ‘Put me where I can touch the pillars which hold up the temple's roof. I want to rest my body on them.’" 
Judges16:27 The temple was full of men and women, as well as all the Philistine rulers. About 3,000 people were on the roof as they watched Samson. They were laughing at him." 
Judges16:28 Samson prayed to the Lord, ‘Remember me, Almighty Lord. Please make me strong again one more time. I want to punish the Philistines because they cut out my two eyes.’" 
Judges16:29 Then Samson put his hands on the two pillars in the centre of the building. He put his right hand on one pillar and his left hand on the other pillar. He got ready to push. 
Judges16:30 Samson shouted out, ‘Let me die with the Philistines!’ Then he pushed the pillars with all his strength. The temple fell down on the rulers and all the other people in it. In that way, Samson killed more people as he died than he had killed while he lived." 
Judges16:31 Then his brothers and all his father's family came to get his body. They carried it back home. They buried him in the grave of his father, Manoah. That was between Zorah and Eshtaol. Samson had led Israel for 20 years." 
Judges17:1 There was a man who lived in the hill country of Ephraim. His name was Micah. 
Judges17:1 There was a man who lived in the hill country of Ephraim. His name was Micah. 
Judges17:2 He said to his mother, ‘I know about the 1,100 pieces of silver that somebody took from you. You cursed the person who had robbed you and I heard you. Look! Here are the pieces of silver. I took them myself. But now I am giving them back to you.’ His mother said, ‘Thank you, my son. I pray that the Lord will bless you.’" 
Judges17:3 When Micah gave the 1,100 pieces of silver back to his mother, she said, ‘I will now give this silver to the Lord. We will use it to make an image and a metal idol. In that way, I will give it back to you, my son.’" 
Judges17:3 When Micah gave the 1,100 pieces of silver back to his mother, she said, ‘I will now give this silver to the Lord. We will use it to make an image and a metal idol. In that way, I will give it back to you, my son.’" 
Judges17:4 So Micah's mother took 200 pieces of silver. She gave them to a man who used silver to make things. He made an image and an idol for her. She put them in Micah's house. 
Judges17:4 So Micah's mother took 200 pieces of silver. She gave them to a man who used silver to make things. He made an image and an idol for her. She put them in Micah's house. 
Judges17:5 Micah had a special room to worship his gods. He made an ephod and some more idols for it. He chose one of his sons to be a priest to serve his gods. 
Judges17:5 Micah had a special room to worship his gods. He made an ephod and some more idols for it. He chose one of his sons to be a priest to serve his gods. 
Judges17:6 At that time, Israel had no king to rule over them. Everyone did what they thought was right." 
Judges17:7 There was a young man who lived in Bethlehem, a town in Judah. He was a Levite." 
Judges17:8 He left Bethlehem to look for another place to live. As he travelled in the hill country of Ephraim, he arrived at Micah's house." 
Judges17:8 He left Bethlehem to look for another place to live. As he travelled in the hill country of Ephraim, he arrived at Micah's house." 
Judges17:9 Micah asked him, ‘Where have you come from?’ The man replied, ‘I am a Levite who was living in Bethlehem in Judah. Now I am looking for a new place to live.’" 
Judges17:9 Micah asked him, ‘Where have you come from?’ The man replied, ‘I am a Levite who was living in Bethlehem in Judah. Now I am looking for a new place to live.’" 
Judges17:10 Micah said, ‘Stay here with me. You will be my advisor and my priest. I will pay you ten pieces of silver each year, as well as your clothes and food.’" 
Judges17:10 Micah said, ‘Stay here with me. You will be my advisor and my priest. I will pay you ten pieces of silver each year, as well as your clothes and food.’" 
Judges17:11 So the Levite agreed to stay with Micah. He became like a son for Micah. 
Judges17:11 So the Levite agreed to stay with Micah. He became like a son for Micah. 
Judges17:12 Micah gave the young man what he needed. The Levite became Micah's priest and he lived in Micah's home. 
Judges17:12 Micah gave the young man what he needed. The Levite became Micah's priest and he lived in Micah's home. 
Judges17:13 Then Micah said, ‘Now I know that the Lord will bless me, because I have this Levite as my own priest.’" 
Judges17:13 Then Micah said, ‘Now I know that the Lord will bless me, because I have this Levite as my own priest.’" 
Judges18:1 At that time, Israel had no king to rule over them. The people of Dan's tribe were looking for some land where they could live. They had not yet taken the land that would be their home among Israel's tribes." 
Judges18:2 So the men of Dan sent five soldiers from the clans of their tribe to explore the land. The leaders sent them out from Zorah and Eshtaol. They told them, ‘Go and find some land for us.’ The five men went into the hill country of Ephraim. They came to Micah's house and they stayed there for a night." 
Judges18:2 So the men of Dan sent five soldiers from the clans of their tribe to explore the land. The leaders sent them out from Zorah and Eshtaol. They told them, ‘Go and find some land for us.’ The five men went into the hill country of Ephraim. They came to Micah's house and they stayed there for a night." 
Judges18:3 While they were at Micah's house, they recognized the voice of the young Levite. So they went in and they asked him, ‘Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place? Why are you here?’" 
Judges18:3 While they were at Micah's house, they recognized the voice of the young Levite. So they went in and they asked him, ‘Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place? Why are you here?’" 
Judges18:4 He told them what Micah had done for him. He said, ‘He pays me to work for him as his priest.’" 
Judges18:4 He told them what Micah had done for him. He said, ‘He pays me to work for him as his priest.’" 
Judges18:5 So they said to him, ‘Please ask God if our journey will have a good result.’" 
Judges18:6 Micah's priest answered, ‘Yes, do not worry. The Lord will be with you on your journey.’" 
Judges18:6 Micah's priest answered, ‘Yes, do not worry. The Lord will be with you on your journey.’" 
Judges18:7 So the five men continued on their journey. They arrived at Laish. They saw that it was a safe place to live. The people of Laish were not afraid of any trouble. They lived in peace, like the Sidonians do. Their land gave them everything that they needed, so they were rich. They lived a long way from the Sidonians, and there were no other people who would help them." 
Judges18:8 The five men of Dan's tribe returned to Zorah and Eshtaol. Their relatives asked them, ‘What did you find?’" 
Judges18:9 The men answered, ‘We should go now and attack them! We saw their land, and it is very good. Do not sit there and wait! Go quickly and take the land for yourselves." 
Judges18:10 When you attack, you will see that the people there think that they are safe. Their land is very big and it has everything that we need. God will surely give it to you.’" 
Judges18:11 So 600 men of Dan's tribe prepared for the fight. They marched out from Zorah and Eshtaol with their weapons. 
Judges18:12 On their way, they made their camp at Kiriath-Jearim in Judah. That place on the west side of Kiriath-Jearim is still called Mahaneh Dan." 
Judges18:13 From there they travelled through the hill country of Ephraim. They arrived at Micah's house. 
Judges18:13 From there they travelled through the hill country of Ephraim. They arrived at Micah's house. 
Judges18:14 The five men who had explored the land of Laish said to their relatives, ‘Do you know that in one of these houses there is an ephod, some small idols, an image and a metal idol? Think carefully and decide what to do.’" 
Judges18:15 So they went into Micah's house, where the young Levite was living. They said ‘hello’ to him." 
Judges18:15 So they went into Micah's house, where the young Levite was living. They said ‘hello’ to him." 
Judges18:16 The 600 men of Dan stood at the gate with their weapons. 
Judges18:17 The five men who had explored the land went inside. They took all the idols, the image and the priest's ephod. While they did that, the Levite priest was standing at the gate with the 600 soldiers." 
Judges18:18 When the priest saw that the five men were taking the things from the house, he asked them, ‘What are you doing?’" 
Judges18:19 They said to him, ‘Be quiet! Do not say a word. Come with us. You will be our advisor and our priest. That will be much better for you. You will serve a whole Israelite tribe, instead of only one man's family.’" 
Judges18:20 So the priest was happy. He joined the group of men from Dan's tribe. He took the ephod, the idols and the image with him." 
Judges18:21 They left Micah's house to continue their journey. They followed after their children, their animals and all their other things." 
Judges18:21 They left Micah's house to continue their journey. They followed after their children, their animals and all their other things." 
Judges18:22 After they had travelled some way, Micah realized what had happened. He brought together his neighbours and they chased after the men of Dan. When they reached them," 
Judges18:22 After they had travelled some way, Micah realized what had happened. He brought together his neighbours and they chased after the men of Dan. When they reached them," 
Judges18:23 they shouted to them. The men of Dan turned around and they said to Micah, ‘What is the problem? Why have you brought all these men?’" 
Judges18:23 they shouted to them. The men of Dan turned around and they said to Micah, ‘What is the problem? Why have you brought all these men?’" 
Judges18:24 Micah replied, ‘You have taken away the gods that I made. You have also taken my priest. Now I have nothing left. You should not ask me, “What is the problem?” ’" 
Judges18:24 Micah replied, ‘You have taken away the gods that I made. You have also taken my priest. Now I have nothing left. You should not ask me, “What is the problem?” ’" 
Judges18:25 The men of Dan said to Micah, ‘Do not argue with us! If you say any more, some of our men may become very angry. They might attack you. You and your family might all die!’" 
Judges18:25 The men of Dan said to Micah, ‘Do not argue with us! If you say any more, some of our men may become very angry. They might attack you. You and your family might all die!’" 
Judges18:26 Then the men of Dan continued on their journey. Micah realized that they were too strong for him. So he turned around and he went home. 
Judges18:26 Then the men of Dan continued on their journey. Micah realized that they were too strong for him. So he turned around and he went home. 
Judges18:27 The men of Dan took the idols that Micah had made, as well as his priest. Then they arrived at Laish. The people who lived there were not expecting any trouble. The soldiers of Dan attacked the people with their weapons and they killed them. They destroyed the city with fire." 
Judges18:27 The men of Dan took the idols that Micah had made, as well as his priest. Then they arrived at Laish. The people who lived there were not expecting any trouble. The soldiers of Dan attacked the people with their weapons and they killed them. They destroyed the city with fire." 
Judges18:28 No one came to rescue the people of Laish. The city was a long way from Sidon. They had no other friends to help them. Laish was in a valley near Beth Rehob. The people of Dan built the city again and they lived there. 
Judges18:29 They called the city Dan, because that was the name of their ancestor. He had been one of Israel's 12 sons. Before that, the city's name was Laish." 
Judges18:30 The people of Dan worshipped Micah's idol. Jonathan served as priest for the tribe of Dan. He was a descendant of Moses' son, Gershom. He and his descendants served there as priests until Israel's enemies took them away into exile." 
Judges18:30 The people of Dan worshipped Micah's idol. Jonathan served as priest for the tribe of Dan. He was a descendant of Moses' son, Gershom. He and his descendants served there as priests until Israel's enemies took them away into exile." 
Judges18:31 They continued to worship Micah's idol in Dan all the time that God's special tent was in Shiloh. 
Judges18:31 They continued to worship Micah's idol in Dan all the time that God's special tent was in Shiloh. 
Judges19:1 At that time, Israel had no king to rule over them. There was a Levite who was living in the hill country of Ephraim, far away from any towns. He took a woman from Bethlehem in Judah to be his slave wife." 
Judges19:2 But she became angry with him. She left him and she returned to her father's house in Bethlehem. After she had been there four months," 
Judges19:3 her husband went to find her. He wanted to ask her to return home with him. He took his servant and two donkeys with him. When he arrived, she took him into her father's house. Her father was happy to see him." 
Judges19:4 He asked the Levite to stay there with them, and he stayed for three days. They ate food and they drank wine together. The Levite slept there." 
Judges19:5 On the fourth day they got up early. The Levite was ready to leave with his wife. But the woman's father said to the Levite, ‘Eat some food so that you are strong for your journey. Then you may go.’" 
Judges19:6 So the two men sat down and they ate a meal together. Then the woman's father said to the Levite, ‘Stay here one more night. Then we can continue to be happy together.’" 
Judges19:7 The Levite got up to go, but his wife's father made him stay." 
Judges19:8 The Levite got up early in the morning of the fifth day. He was ready to leave. But the woman's father said, ‘Make yourself strong with some food. Wait until this afternoon and then you can go.’ So the two of them ate a meal together." 
Judges19:9 The Levite prepared to leave with his wife and his male servant. Then her father said, ‘Look! It is nearly evening already. Sleep here tonight. The day is almost over. Stay one more night and enjoy yourself. Early tomorrow morning you can leave on your journey to go home.’" 
Judges19:10 But the Levite did not want to stay there for another night. So he left with his two donkeys and his wife. They travelled as far as Jebus, which is now called Jerusalem." 
Judges19:11 When they arrived near to Jebus, it was getting dark. The servant said to his master, ‘Let us stay in this city of the Jebusites. We can sleep here for the night.’" 
Judges19:12 The Levite replied, ‘No, we should not stay in a foreign city. The people who live here are not Israelites. We will go on to Gibeah.’" 
Judges19:13 He said to his servant, ‘Let us try to reach Gibeah or Ramah. Then we can stay in one of those places for the night.’" 
Judges19:14 So they continued on their journey. It was sunset when they came near to Gibeah, in Benjamin's land." 
Judges19:15 They decided to stay there for the night. They went into the city. They sat down in the public place in the middle of the city. But no one took them into their home to sleep for the night. 
Judges19:16 That evening, there was an old man who was returning home from his work in the fields. He was from the hill country of Ephraim but he was living in Gibeah at that time." 
Judges19:17 He saw the Levite traveller in the public place. He asked, ‘Where are you travelling to? Where have you come from?’" 
Judges19:18 The Levite answered, ‘We are travelling from Bethlehem in Judah to the hill country of Ephraim, far from other towns. That is where I live. I needed to go to Bethlehem and now I am returning home. But no one has taken me into his house to sleep." 
Judges19:19 We have straw and food for our donkeys. We have food and wine for myself, my wife and my servant. We have everything that we need.’" 
Judges19:20 The old man said, ‘Do not worry. I will take care of you. Please come into my house. Do not stay for the night in this public place.’" 
Judges19:21 So the old man took the Levite into his house, and he fed the donkeys. When they had washed their feet, they ate a meal." 
Judges19:22 They were enjoying their time together. Suddenly, some wicked men who lived in the city came to the house. They stood all around it and they hit the door hard. They shouted to the old man who lived there, ‘Bring out the man who came to visit you. We want to have sex with him.’" 
Judges19:23 The old man went outside to them. He said to them, ‘Friends, do not try to do this very evil thing! This man is a visitor in my house. Do not do such a wicked thing." 
Judges19:24 Look! Here is my daughter. She has never had sex with anyone before. Here is my visitor's slave wife too. I will bring them outside to you. Then you can do whatever cruel things you want to do to them. But do not do such a terrible thing to this man.’ 
Judges19:25 But the men would not agree to this. So the Levite took hold of his slave wife and he pushed her outside. They made her have sex with them all night and they were very cruel to her. At dawn, they let her go." 
Judges19:26 She went back to the house where her master was staying. She fell down at the door and she lay there until it became light. 
Judges19:27 When her master got up in the morning, he opened the door. He was ready to continue his journey. He saw the woman who was his wife lying on the ground outside the door. She was trying to reach the door with her hands." 
Judges19:28 He said to her, ‘Get up. It is time to go!’ But she did not answer. Then he put her on his donkey and he started on his way home." 
Judges19:29 When he arrived home, he picked up a knife. He cut his slave wife's body into 12 pieces. Then he sent them to each of Israel's 12 tribes." 
Judges19:30 Everyone who saw what he had done said, ‘In all the time since the Israelites left Egypt, nothing as bad as this has ever happened before. We have never seen anything like it. Think carefully about it. We must decide what to do!’" 
Judges20:1 Then all the Israelites agreed to come together. They came from everywhere in Israel, from Dan in the north as far as Beersheba in the south. They also came from the Gilead region on the east side of the Jordan River. They all came together at Mizpah, to meet with the Lord." 
Judges20:2 The leaders of all Israel's tribes stood there with the people of God. There were 400,000 Israelite men who had their weapons, ready to fight." 
Judges20:3 By this time, the people of Benjamin's tribe had heard the news that the other tribes were meeting in Mizpah. Then the Israelites asked, ‘Tell us how this evil thing happened.’" 
Judges20:4 So the Levite, the husband of the dead woman, told them. He said, ‘My slave wife and I arrived in Gibeah to sleep there for the night. It is a town that belongs to the people of Benjamin's tribe." 
Judges20:5 That night some important men of Gibeah came to the house to attack me. They stood all around the house. They wanted to kill me, but they took hold of my wife instead. They made her have sex with them, and she died." 
Judges20:6 I took her body home and I cut it into 12 pieces. I sent the pieces everywhere in the land of Israel. I did this to show what a terrible thing these men had done. 
Judges20:7 So now all you people of Israel must decide what you will do about it.’ 
Judges20:8 All the people stood up together. They all promised, ‘None of us will go home. Not one of us will return to his house." 
Judges20:9 Instead, this is what we will do to the people of Gibeah. We will use lots to decide who should attack the city." 
Judges20:10 We will take ten men from every 100 men in each tribe. We will take 100 men from every 1,000 men, and 1,000 men from every 10,000 men. Those men will find food for the other soldiers. That will be their job. Then the other soldiers will be able to attack Gibeah. They will punish Gibeah's people as they deserve for the terrible thing that they have done.’" 
Judges20:11 So all the Israelites agreed together that they would attack Gibeah, in the land of Benjamin." 
Judges20:12 The Israelite tribes sent men with a message to all the places in Benjamin. They said, ‘You must know that some of your men have done an evil thing." 
Judges20:13 Send those wicked men of Gibeah out to us. We must punish them with death. Only that will remove this terrible sin from Israel.’ But the people of Benjamin did not agree to do that. 
Judges20:14 Instead, they came from all their towns and they met together at Gibeah to fight against the other Israelites." 
Judges20:15 26,000 soldiers came to Gibeah with their weapons, ready to fight. There were also 700 brave soldiers already in Gibeah." 
Judges20:16 In Benjamin's army there were 700 men who used their left hands to fight. Each of them could use a sling to throw a stone at a very small thing. They could even hit a hair! 
Judges20:17 The other Israelite tribes, without Benjamin, had an army of 400,000 soldiers who knew how to use their weapons." 
Judges20:18 They went to Bethel. They asked God which tribe should go first to attack Benjamin's army. The Lord replied, ‘Judah must go first.’" 
Judges20:19 The next morning, the Israelites got up and they prepared to attack Gibeah." 
Judges20:20 The Israelite army marched forward to fight against Benjamin's army. They stood in their places around the city. 
Judges20:21 Benjamin's soldiers came out of Gibeah to attack. They killed 22,000 Israelites in the battle that day." 
Judges20:22 The Israelite soldiers told each other to be brave. They went to meet with the Lord and they wept until the evening. They asked the Lord, ‘Should we march out again to fight against our relatives, the men of Benjamin?’ The Lord said, ‘Yes, attack them.’ So they went to stand in the same places around the city as they had done the day before." 
Judges20:23  
Judges20:24 The Israelites went to fight against Benjamin's army on the second day. 
Judges20:25 This time, when the soldiers of Benjamin came out of Gibeah to attack them, they killed another 18,000 Israelite soldiers in the battle." 
Judges20:26 Then the whole Israelite army went back to Bethel to meet with the Lord. They sat there and they wept. They did not eat any food that day until evening. They offered burnt offerings and peace offerings to the Lord. 
Judges20:27 The Covenant Box was in Bethel at that time. Phinehas, son of Eleazar and grandson of Aaron, was the priest who served the Lord there. The Israelites asked the Lord, ‘Should we march out to fight against our relatives, the men of Benjamin, again? Or should we leave them?’ The Lord said, ‘Attack them. Tomorrow I will put them under your power.’" 
Judges20:28  
Judges20:29 This time, the Israelites made some of their soldiers hide in places around Gibeah." 
Judges20:30 On the third day, their other soldiers stood in the same places as before. They were ready to fight." 
Judges20:31 The soldiers of Benjamin came out of Gibeah to attack them. But the Israelites moved away from the city so that Benjamin's soldiers chased after them. The men of Benjamin began to kill the Israelites, as they had done before. They killed about 30 Israelites in the fields and on the roads that went to Bethel and Gibeah." 
Judges20:32 The soldiers of Benjamin were saying, ‘We are winning against them, as we have done before!’ But the Israelites were saying, ‘We will continue to run away so that their soldiers chase us. We will lead them away from the city onto the roads.’" 
Judges20:33 When the men of Israel reached Baal Tamar, they stopped there. They stood in their places, ready to fight. At the same time, the Israelite soldiers who had hidden themselves on the west side of Gibeah ran out of their places." 
Judges20:34 10,000 Israelite soldiers who knew how to fight well attacked Gibeah. There was a big battle. The men of Benjamin did not realize that they were in a lot of trouble." 
Judges20:35 The Lord destroyed Benjamin's army as the Israelites attacked them. Israel's soldiers killed more than 25,000 soldiers of Benjamin's army that day." 
Judges20:36 Finally, the men of Benjamin realized that they had lost the battle. This is how it happened: Israel's soldiers let Benjamin's army chase after them. They trusted the soldiers who were hiding around Gibeah to attack the city." 
Judges20:37 The Israelites had agreed a sign with their men who were hiding. When those men ran into Gibeah and they destroyed everything there, they would make the sign. They would light a big fire so that the smoke went up into the sky." 
Judges20:38  
Judges20:39 Then the other Israelite soldiers would turn round to attack the soldiers who were chasing them. Benjamin's soldiers had begun to kill the Israelites. When they had killed about 30 of them, they said, ‘Look! We are winning again, as we always do!’" 
Judges20:40 Then they turned and they saw the tall pillar of smoke. It was rising from their city up to the sky. 
Judges20:41 The Israelite soldiers saw the sign and they attacked the soldiers of Benjamin. The men of Benjamin suddenly became very afraid. They realized that they were in a lot of trouble. 
Judges20:42 So they ran away on the road towards the desert while the Israelites chased after them. But they could not escape from the Israelites. Israelite men came out from their towns and killed them in the battle. 
Judges20:43 They attacked Benjamin's soldiers from all sides and they continued to chase them. They were killing them all the way to a place on the east of Gibeah. 
Judges20:44 They killed 18,000 strong soldiers of Benjamin's tribe." 
Judges20:45 The rest of Benjamin's soldiers ran towards the desert, as far as the rock of Rimmon. The Israelites killed 5,000 of them as they ran along the roads. They chased them to Gidom, and they killed 2,000 more of Benjamin's soldiers there." 
Judges20:46 On that day, 25,000 soldiers of Benjamin's tribe died. They were all brave men who knew how to fight well." 
Judges20:47 But 600 soldiers turned and ran away to the rock of Rimmon. They stayed there for four months. 
Judges20:48 The Israelites returned to the land that belonged to Benjamin's tribe. They killed the people and animals in all the towns there. As they came to each town, they destroyed it with fire." 
Judges21:1 The Israelites had made a promise to the Lord at Mizpah. They agreed together, ‘None of us will allow our daughters to marry a man of Benjamin's tribe.’" 
Judges21:2 After the war against Benjamin's army, the people went to Bethel to meet with God. They sat there until evening. They could not stop weeping loudly." 
Judges21:3 They said, ‘ Lord, Israel's God, why has this terrible thing happened in Israel? We have lost one whole tribe of Israel.’" 
Judges21:4 The next morning, the people got up early. They built an altar. They offered burnt offerings and peace offerings to the Lord there." 
Judges21:5 Then the Israelites asked, ‘Which people from Israel's tribes did not join us when we all met together at Mizpah?’ They asked this because they had made a serious promise at Mizpah. They had said, ‘We must punish with death anyone who does not join us here to meet with the Lord.’" 
Judges21:6 The Israelites were very upset about what had happened to Benjamin's tribe. They said, ‘We have destroyed a whole tribe of Israel. They were our relatives." 
Judges21:7 How can we find women to marry the few men who are left? We all made a serious promise to the Lord that we would not let them marry our daughters.’ 
Judges21:8 So they asked, ‘When we met with the Lord at Mizpah, which people from all Israel's tribes did not come with us?’ They realized that no one from Jabesh Gilead had come to the meeting." 
Judges21:9 When they had counted the people, there had been no men from Jabesh Gilead among them." 
Judges21:10 So all the Israelites decided to send an army of 12,000 soldiers to attack Jabesh Gilead. They commanded them, ‘Use your swords to kill everyone there, including the women and children." 
Judges21:11 This is what you must do: Kill every male and every woman who has slept with a man. But do not kill the women who have never had sex.’ 
Judges21:12 The Israelite army attacked Jabesh Gilead. They found 400 young women who had not had sex with anyone. They took the women back to their camp at Shiloh in Canaan. 
Judges21:13 Then all the Israelites sent a message of peace to the men of Benjamin who were still at the rock of Rimmon. 
Judges21:14 So the men returned from the rock at that time. The Israelites gave the women of Jabesh Gilead that they had not killed to them. But there were not enough women for all the men of Benjamin. 
Judges21:15 The Israelite people were very sad about what had happened to Benjamin's tribe. The Lord had caused their tribe to become very weak. 
Judges21:16 The Israelite leaders asked, ‘How can we find wives for the other men of Benjamin? We killed all their own women." 
Judges21:17 Benjamin's people who are still alive must have children. If they do not, their whole tribe will disappear." 
Judges21:18 But we cannot allow our daughters to marry them. We promised that we would never do that. We said, “God himself will punish anyone who allows his daughter to marry a man of Benjamin.”" 
Judges21:19 But every year there is a big feast at Shiloh to give honour to the Lord. That will happen soon.’ Shiloh is north of Bethel and south of Lebonah. It is on the east side of the road from Bethel to Shechem. 
Judges21:20 The Israelites told the men of Benjamin, ‘Go there and hide in the vineyards." 
Judges21:21 Watch carefully. When the young women of Shiloh come out to dance at the feast, run out from the vineyards. Each of you should catch one of the young women of Shiloh. Take them home to the land of Benjamin to be your wives." 
Judges21:22 Their fathers or their brothers may come to us and complain. If they do, we will say, “Please agree to help the men of Benjamin. We could not find a wife for each of them in the war. You did not choose to give your daughters to them, so you will not be guilty. The men of Benjamin caught them and took them away.” ’" 
Judges21:23 So that is what the 200 men of Benjamin did. Each of them caught a young woman as she was dancing at the feast. They took them home to their own land to be their wives. They built their towns again and they lived in them. 
Judges21:24 After that, the Israelites left there. They went back home to the places where their tribes and their clans lived." 
Judges21:25 At that time, Israel had no king to rule over them. Everyone did what they thought was right." 
Ruth1:1 There was a time when judges ruled Israel. During that time there was a famine in Judah. A man who lived in Bethlehem, in Judah, had a wife and two sons. His name was Elimelech. Elimelech's wife was called Naomi, and his sons were called Mahlon and Kilion. They were from Ephrathah's clan. Because there was not enough food in Judah, Elimelech and his family left Bethlehem. They went to live as strangers in Moab." 
Ruth1:2  
Ruth1:3 Elimelech died while they were living in Moab. Naomi and her two sons remained there alone. 
Ruth1:4 Then Naomi's sons married women from Moab. Mahlon married a woman called Ruth. Kilion married a woman called Orpah. 
Ruth1:5 After they had all lived in Moab for about ten years, both Mahlon and Kilion died. Now Naomi was completely alone, without her husband or her sons." 
Ruth1:6 Naomi received news from Judah that the Lord had helped his people. There was now enough food in Judah again. So Naomi decided to leave Moab and return to Judah with Ruth and Orpah. 
Ruth1:7 Naomi and her sons' wives left their home in Moab. They began to travel together on the way back to Judah. 
Ruth1:8 On the way, Naomi said to Ruth and Orpah, ‘Listen! You should return to your mothers' homes in Moab and stay there. Your husbands are dead now. You have been kind to them and to me. I pray that the Lord will be as kind to you." 
Ruth1:9 I also pray that God will give to each of you another husband and a new home.’ Naomi kissed them and said ‘goodbye’. Ruth and Orpah began to weep loudly. 
Ruth1:10 They said to Naomi, ‘No! We will go with you to live with your people.’" 
Ruth1:11 But Naomi said, ‘My daughters, you should return to your own country. You should not choose to come back to Judah with me. I will not give birth to any more sons for you to marry them." 
Ruth1:12 Return to your own country, my daughters. I am too old to marry another husband. Even if I did marry a man immediately, when might I give birth to sons?" 
Ruth1:13 I am sure that you do not want to wait until they are old enough for you to marry them! Would you wait all that time and not marry anyone else? So, my daughters, you must not return to Judah with me. You should not have to share my pain. The Lord has turned against me.’" 
Ruth1:14 Ruth and Orpah wept loudly again. Orpah kissed Naomi and she said ‘goodbye’. But Ruth would not leave Naomi. She held on to Naomi. 
Ruth1:15 Naomi said to Ruth, ‘Look! Orpah has returned to her family. She has returned to serve the gods of Moab. Go back home with her.’" 
Ruth1:16 Ruth said to Naomi, ‘Do not say that I must leave you. I will go with you, wherever you go. I will live wherever you live. You belong to Israel's people. I will belong to them too. Your God will be my God." 
Ruth1:17 I will die in the same place that you die. That is where people will bury me. I will stay beside you until death makes us separate. If I ever leave you, the Lord should punish me.’" 
Ruth1:18 Then Naomi understood that Ruth would not agree to return to her own country. So she stopped saying that Ruth should leave her. 
Ruth1:19 Naomi and Ruth travelled together to Bethlehem. When they arrived there, the people were very surprised. The women from the town said, ‘Is this really Naomi?’" 
Ruth1:20 Naomi said to them, ‘Do not call me Naomi. Instead, call me Mara. The Almighty God has made my life very sad." 
Ruth1:21 I left here with everything that I needed. Now the Lord has brought me back here with nothing. The Almighty Lord has turned against me, so that I have suffered. It is not right for you to call me Naomi.’" 
Ruth1:22 That is how Naomi returned from Moab with Ruth. Ruth was from Moab. She was the wife of Naomi's son, Mahlon. Naomi and Ruth arrived in Bethlehem when the harvest time for barley was beginning." 
Ruth2:1 Boaz was a rich and important man who lived in Bethlehem. He was from the family of Naomi's husband, Elimelech." 
Ruth2:2 One day, Ruth, the woman from Moab, said to Naomi, ‘Let me go to the fields to pick up some grains from the harvest. I will walk behind anyone who lets me do that.’ Naomi said, ‘Yes, my daughter, go and do that.’" 
Ruth2:3 So Ruth went to the fields. She began to pick up the grains of barley that the men dropped on the ground. It happened that she was in part of a field that belonged to Boaz. Boaz was from Elimelech's clan. 
Ruth2:4 At that moment, Boaz arrived from Bethlehem. He said ‘hello’ to the workers. He said, ‘May the Lord help you.’ The men replied, ‘May the Lord bless you!’" 
Ruth2:5 Boaz asked the leader of his workers, ‘Who is that young woman? Which family does she belong to?’" 
Ruth2:6 The man said, ‘She is that young woman from Moab, who returned from Moab with Naomi." 
Ruth2:7 She asked me, “Please let me walk behind your workers. Then I can pick up the grains of barley that they leave on the ground.” She has worked very hard in the field since she arrived this morning. She only had a short rest in the hut.’" 
Ruth2:8 So Boaz said to Ruth, ‘Young woman, listen to me. Do not go and pick up grains of barley in any other field. Stay here in this field and work beside my servant girls." 
Ruth2:9 Watch carefully where the men are working. Then follow behind the other women. I have told the male workers not to touch you. Whenever you are thirsty, go and drink water from the jars. My servants fill those jars with water to drink.’" 
Ruth2:10 Ruth went down on her knees with her head towards the ground in front of Boaz. She said, ‘I am a foreign woman. So why do you choose to be so kind to me? Why are you taking care of me?’" 
Ruth2:11 Boaz replied, ‘People have told me all about you. When your husband died, you helped Naomi very much. You chose to leave your father, your mother and your country. You came here to live with people who were strangers to you." 
Ruth2:12 You have done many good things. So I pray that the Lord will do good things for you in return. You have come here to be safe with the Lord, who is Israel's God. I pray that he will bless you.’" 
Ruth2:13 Ruth said, ‘Thank you, sir. You are being very kind to me. Your words cause me to feel happy and strong. I am not even as important as one of your servant girls, but you have been kind to me.’" 
Ruth2:14 When it was time to eat a meal, Boaz said to Ruth, ‘Come here and eat with us. Take some bread and mix it with the wine.’ So Ruth sat down to eat with the workers. Boaz gave her some grain that someone had cooked. She ate all that she wanted and she still had some with her." 
Ruth2:15 After the meal, Ruth returned to work in the field. Boaz said to his workers, ‘Let her pick up grains anywhere, even near the heaps of barley that you have cut down. Do not chase her away." 
Ruth2:16 You should also pull out some barley and drop it for her to pick up. Do not be angry with her.’ 
Ruth2:17 Ruth picked up grains in Boaz's field until that evening. Then she threshed the grains so that the seeds came out. The grains of barley that she took home filled a large basket. 
Ruth2:18 She carried the barley back to Naomi's home in the town. Naomi saw how much Ruth had picked up. Ruth also took the grains that she did not eat at the meal and she gave them to Naomi. 
Ruth2:19 Naomi asked Ruth, ‘Where did you work today, to pick up all this barley? I want God to bless the man who was so kind to you.’ So Ruth told Naomi about the man whose field she had worked in. She said, ‘The man that I worked with today is called Boaz.’" 
Ruth2:20 Naomi said to Ruth, ‘He has been kind to us! He has thought about our husbands who have died and he has helped us who are still alive. I pray that the Lord will bless him in return. That man is our relative. He is one of our family-redeemers.’" 
Ruth2:21 Then Ruth said, ‘Boaz even said to me, “Stay with my workers until they have finished the work in my fields.” ’" 
Ruth2:22 Naomi said to Ruth, ‘Yes, my daughter, it will be good for you to work beside the young women in his fields. You will be safe there, but in another field the workers might hurt you.’" 
Ruth2:23 So Ruth worked beside Boaz's women workers until they finished the harvest of barley and wheat. She continued to live with Naomi. 
Ruth3:1 One day, Naomi said to Ruth, ‘My daughter, I must find a home for you. Then you will have everything that you need." 
Ruth3:2 You have worked with Boaz's women workers, and he is our relative. Tonight, he will be at the threshing floor where he prepares the barley seeds." 
Ruth3:3 So wash yourself carefully. Put some perfume on yourself. Put on your best clothes. Then go down to the threshing floor. Do not let Boaz know that you are there. Wait quietly until he has finished his food and drink. 
Ruth3:4 After that, he will lie down to sleep. Then you will see where he is lying. Go and lift the cloth from over his feet. Lie down there. Then he will tell you what you should do.’" 
Ruth3:5 Ruth said, ‘I will do what you have said to me.’" 
Ruth3:6 So she went down to the threshing floor. She did everything that Naomi had told her to do. 
Ruth3:7 Boaz felt very happy when he had finished his food and drink. He lay down next to the heap of barley seeds. Ruth went to him very quietly. She lifted the cloth that covered his feet. Then she lay down there. 
Ruth3:8 In the middle of the night, something caused Boaz to wake up suddenly. When he turned over, he saw a woman who was lying there at his feet!" 
Ruth3:9 He asked, ‘Who are you?’ Ruth replied, ‘I am your servant, Ruth. You are our family-redeemer, so please cover me with the corner of your cloth.’" 
Ruth3:10 Boaz replied, ‘Young woman, I pray that the Lord will bless you. You have already been very kind to Naomi. Now you have been even more kind to me. You have not tried to marry a man who is younger than me, whether he is rich or poor." 
Ruth3:11 So, young woman, do not be afraid. All the people in this town know that you are a good woman. I will do everything for you that you have asked me to do." 
Ruth3:12 It is true that I am a family-redeemer for your family. But there is another relative who is nearer to your family than I am. 
Ruth3:13 Stay here for this night. In the morning, we will see what to do. If this relative wants to take care of you, let him do it. If he does not agree, then I will do it. As surely as the Lord lives, I will do it. So just lie here until the morning.’" 
Ruth3:14 So Ruth lay beside Boaz's feet until morning arrived. Then she got up before anyone could see her. Boaz said to her, ‘Nobody must know that a woman came here to the threshing floor.’" 
Ruth3:15 He said to Ruth, ‘Bring me the coat that you are wearing.’ She brought the coat to him. Then Boaz poured six bowls of barley seeds onto it. He tied it together and put it on her shoulder. Later, he returned to the town." 
Ruth3:16 When Ruth returned home to Naomi, Naomi asked her, ‘My daughter, what happened last night?’ Then Ruth told her everything that Boaz had done for her." 
Ruth3:17 She said to Naomi, ‘He also gave me all this barley. He said, “Do not return to Naomi with nothing to give to her.” ’" 
Ruth3:18 Naomi said, ‘My daughter, you must be patient. We must wait to see what will happen. Boaz will surely do what he needs to do today.’" 
Ruth4:1 In the morning, Boaz went to the gate of the town and he sat down there. Later, the family-redeemer that Boaz had talked about to Ruth came there. Boaz said to him, ‘Come here, my friend, and sit down.’ So the man went to sit with Boaz." 
Ruth4:2 Boaz chose ten of the town's leaders and he said to them, ‘Come and sit here.’ So they sat down." 
Ruth4:3 Then Boaz said to the family-redeemer, ‘Naomi has returned from Moab. She wants to sell the piece of land that belonged to our relative, Elimelech." 
Ruth4:4 I thought that I should tell you about this, in front of the leaders of our town. Tell us if you will buy this land from Naomi, so that all the people who sit here know what you decide. If you want to buy it, then you should buy it. If you do not want to buy it, then you must tell me. Then I will know what to do. You are the person who must decide. If you do not choose to buy the land, then I can buy it.’ The relative said, ‘I will buy it.’" 
Ruth4:5 Then Boaz said, ‘You should also know this: When you buy the land from Naomi, you also have to marry the Moabite woman, Ruth. She is the widow of Elimelech's son. She will give birth to your children and Elimelech's land will continue to belong to his family.’" 
Ruth4:6 When Boaz said that, the relative replied, ‘If that is true, I cannot buy the land. It would not belong to my own children when I die. You may buy the land instead of me. I cannot buy it myself.’" 
Ruth4:7 In Israel at this time, when somebody agreed to sell land, he removed his shoe. He gave it to the man who was buying the land. Then everyone could see that they both agreed. They could not change their minds." 
Ruth4:8 So the relative said to Boaz, ‘You may buy the land.’ When he said that, he removed his shoe." 
Ruth4:9 Boaz said to the town's leaders and to all the people there, ‘You have all seen today that I have bought the land from Naomi. I have bought all the land that belonged to Elimelech, Kilion and Mahlon." 
Ruth4:10 I will also marry Ruth, who came here from Moab. She was Mahlon's wife. In that way, the land will still belong to Elimelech's family. Ruth's descendants will still have his family's name. His family will continue to belong to this town where he lived. Today you have seen that this is what we have agreed together.’" 
Ruth4:11 Then all the leaders and the other people at the gate said, ‘We have seen that this is true. We pray that the Lord will bless the woman who is coming into your home as your wife. We pray that he will bless her as he blessed Rachel and Leah. They gave birth to many children for the family of Israel. We pray that you will become a rich man in Ephrathah's clan. And we pray that you will become famous in Bethlehem town." 
Ruth4:12 We pray that this woman will give birth to many children for you. Then the Lord will give you many descendants, so that you have a large family. We pray that your family will be like the family of Perez, who was the son of Judah and his wife, Tamar.’" 
Ruth4:13 So Boaz married Ruth. He lived with her as his wife. The Lord blessed her so that she became pregnant. She gave birth to a son. 
Ruth4:14 The women of Bethlehem said to Naomi, ‘We praise the Lord! Today, he has given you a relative to take care of you! We pray that the child will become famous everywhere in Israel!" 
Ruth4:15 He will help you to feel young again. He will take care of you when you are old. Your son's wife, Ruth, has given birth to this boy. She loves you and she has helped you more than seven sons could ever do.’" 
Ruth4:16 Naomi took the child and she held him near to her. She took care of him as if he was her own son. 
Ruth4:17 The women who lived there said, ‘Now Naomi has a son again!’ They called the boy Obed. He became the father of Jesse, who became the father of David." 
Ruth4:18 These are the descendants of Perez: Perez was the father of Hezron. 
Ruth4:19 Hezron was the father of Ram. Ram was the father of Amminadab. 
Ruth4:20 Amminadab was the father of Nahshon. Nahshon was the father of Salmon. 
Ruth4:21 Salmon was the father of Boaz. Boaz was the father of Obed. 
Ruth4:22 Obed was the father of Jesse. Jesse was the father of David. 
1Samuel1:1 There was a man whose name was Elkanah. He lived in a town called Ramah. This town was in the hill country where Ephraim's tribe lived. Elkanah was the son of Jeroham. Jeroham was the son of Elihu. Elihu was the son of Tohu. Tohu was the son of Zuph. Zuph belonged to the tribe of Ephraim. 
1Samuel1:2 Elkanah had two wives. One wife was called Hannah and the other wife was called Peninnah. Peninnah had children but Hannah did not have any children. 
1Samuel1:3 Every year, Elkanah left his home in Ramah to go to the town of Shiloh. He went there to worship the Lord Almighty and to offer sacrifices to him. Hophni and Phinehas served the Lord at Shiloh as his priests. Eli was their father." 
1Samuel1:4 Every year, when Elkanah offered his sacrifices to God, he gave some of the meat to his wife Peninnah and to her sons and daughters." 
1Samuel1:5 Because Elkanah loved Hannah very much, he always gave twice as much meat to her. But the Lord had not let Hannah give birth to any children." 
1Samuel1:6 Peninnah was not kind to Hannah and she made Hannah very upset. She did this because the Lord had not let Hannah give birth to any children. 
1Samuel1:7 This happened every year when they went to the Lord 's house in Shiloh. Peninnah would cause Hannah to be upset. Then Hannah would weep. She would refuse to eat anything. 
1Samuel1:8 Hannah's husband, Elkanah, said to her, ‘Why should you weep and refuse to eat? Do not be so sad. I love you, and that is better than ten sons.’" 
1Samuel1:9 One day they had offered sacrifices at Shiloh. They had finished eating and drinking. Hannah stood up to pray to God. Eli the priest was sitting on his chair beside the door of the Lord 's temple. 
1Samuel1:10 Hannah was very upset as she prayed to the Lord. She could not stop weeping. 
1Samuel1:11 She made a promise to God. She prayed, ‘ Lord Almighty, you can see how sad I am. Please be kind to me, your servant. Remember me and do not forget me. Please give a son to me, your servant. If you do that, I will give him to serve you for all of his life. Nobody will ever cut his hair.’" 
1Samuel1:12 Hannah continued to pray to the Lord. Eli watched her mouth while it moved. 
1Samuel1:13 Hannah was praying quietly inside herself. Her lips moved but Eli could not hear her voice. So he thought that she was drunk. 
1Samuel1:14 He said to her, ‘Are you always drunk like that? Throw away your wine.’" 
1Samuel1:15 Hannah replied, ‘No, sir, I have not drunk any wine or strong drink. I have much trouble deep inside myself. I have told the Lord about all my problems." 
1Samuel1:16 Please sir, do not think that I am a bad woman. I am praying like this because I am very sad and upset.’" 
1Samuel1:17 Eli said to Hannah, ‘Go and let your mind have peace. I pray that Israel's God will give you what you have asked him for.’" 
1Samuel1:18 Hannah said to him, ‘I will try to do what pleases you, sir.’ Then Hannah went away and she ate some food. Her face was not sad now." 
1Samuel1:19 Elkanah and his family got up early the next morning and they worshipped the Lord. Then they went back to their home in Ramah. Elkanah had sex with his wife Hannah. The Lord remembered what she had asked him for. 
1Samuel1:20 Hannah became pregnant. Later, she gave birth to a son. She gave him the name ‘Samuel’. She said, ‘His name is Samuel because I asked the Lord for him.’" 
1Samuel1:21 Next year, Elkanah went to Shiloh to offer sacrifices to the Lord, as he had promised to do. His family went with him." 
1Samuel1:22 But Hannah did not go as well. She said to her husband, ‘I will not go until the boy is older. When he can eat proper food, I will take him to Shiloh to give him to the Lord. Then he will live there for all his life.’" 
1Samuel1:23 Elkanah said to Hannah, ‘You must do what seems right to you. Stay here at home until the boy begins to eat proper food. May the Lord help you, as he has promised.’ So Hannah stayed at home with her son while he continued to drink milk from her breasts." 
1Samuel1:24 When Samuel started to eat proper food, Hannah took him to Shiloh. She took him to the Lord 's house there when he was still a young boy. She took with her a bull that was three years old. She also took a big bag of flour and a leather bag full of wine." 
1Samuel1:25 They killed the bull for the sacrifice. Then Hannah took Samuel to Eli. 
1Samuel1:26 Hannah said to Eli, ‘Please believe me sir. I am the woman who stood here before. You saw me when I was praying to the Lord." 
1Samuel1:27 I prayed that the Lord would give me a son and he answered my prayer. 
1Samuel1:28 Now I will give this child to serve the Lord. He will be the Lord 's servant for his whole life.’ Then Elkanah's family worshipped the Lord there. 
1Samuel2:1 Hannah prayed and she said, ‘I am very happy when I think about what the Lord has done. The Lord has made me very strong. I can laugh at my enemies because you, Lord, have saved me. That makes me very happy." 
1Samuel2:2 Nobody else is holy like the Lord. There is no other God except you, our God. You are the only Rock where we can be safe." 
1Samuel2:3 Do not boast or speak proud words! The Lord is a God who knows everything. He judges everything that people do. 
1Samuel2:4 The weapons of brave soldiers may break. But weak people who fall become strong again. 
1Samuel2:5 People who once had plenty of food to eat have to work hard for it now. But the people who were hungry now have enough food. Women who could not have any children have now given birth to seven children. But those who had many children are now alone. 
1Samuel2:6 The Lord gives both life and death. He sends some people to their graves, and he raises other people up." 
1Samuel2:7 The Lord makes some people poor and he makes other people rich. He causes some people to be important and he puts other people low down. 
1Samuel2:8 He raises up weak people from the ground. He lifts poor people up out of the dirt. He makes them become friends of princes. He puts them in places of honour. The deep places of the earth belong to the Lord. He built the world on a strong foundation. 
1Samuel2:9 He takes care of his faithful people. But he puts wicked people in a dark place where they can do nothing. It is not a person's own strength that makes him great. 
1Samuel2:10 The Lord will destroy his enemies. He will shout against them from heaven like loud thunder. The Lord will judge everyone on earth. He will make his king strong. He will give power to the king that he has chosen to rule.’ 
1Samuel2:11 Then Elkanah went back to his home at Ramah with his family. But the young boy Samuel stayed in Shiloh. He served the Lord there, while Eli the priest took care of him." 
1Samuel2:12 Eli's sons were wicked men. They did not respect the Lord. 
1Samuel2:13 They did not do what the priests should do. People brought sacrifices to offer to the Lord at Shiloh. When the meat was still cooking in a pot of water, a servant of the priest would come. He would bring a fork that had three points." 
1Samuel2:14 He then pushed the fork into the pot. The priest took for himself any meat that came out on the fork. The priests did that to all the Israelites when they came to Shiloh to offer sacrifices. 
1Samuel2:15 Their servant would even come before the fat was removed from the meat to be burned as a sacrifice. He would say to the person who had brought the sacrifice, ‘Give me some of the meat for the priest to cook. He will not accept meat that has already cooked. He will only accept meat that is fresh.’" 
1Samuel2:16 Sometimes, the person said, ‘We must burn the fat first. Then you can take any meat that you want.’ The servant would reply, ‘No. Give the meat to me now, or I will take it from you anyway.’" 
1Samuel2:17 The Lord knew what Eli's sons were doing. They did not respect the sacrifices that people were offering to the Lord. The Lord saw that their sin was very bad. 
1Samuel2:18 But Samuel served the Lord faithfully, as a young boy. He wore a linen ephod." 
1Samuel2:19 Every year, Samuel's mother made a little coat for him. She took it to him when she went to Shiloh. She and her husband went there every year to offer their sacrifice to God." 
1Samuel2:20 Each year, Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife. He said, ‘I pray that the Lord will give you more children to take the place of Samuel. Hannah has given her son to serve the Lord, so may she give birth to other children too.’ Then they would return to their own home." 
1Samuel2:21 The Lord blessed Hannah. She gave birth to three more sons and two daughters. The boy Samuel continued to grow as he served at the Lord 's house in Shiloh. 
1Samuel2:22 Eli was very old now. He heard about everything that his sons were doing to all the Israelites. He knew that his sons had sex with some of the women helpers. Those women worked at the door of the Tent of Meeting. 
1Samuel2:23 Eli said to his sons, ‘People have told me about all the wicked things that you do." 
1Samuel2:24 No, my sons, you should not do these terrible things. The Lord 's people all complain about you." 
1Samuel2:25 If you do something bad to another person, God can speak on your behalf. But if you do something bad against the Lord, nobody can speak on your behalf.’ Eli's sons did not listen to their father. The Lord had already decided to kill them." 
1Samuel2:26 The young boy Samuel continued to grow. The Lord was pleased with him, and so were the people." 
1Samuel2:27 A servant of God came and he spoke to Eli. This is what he said: ‘The Lord says, “A long time ago, when your ancestors were in Egypt, I showed myself to them. At that time they were slaves of Egypt's king." 
1Samuel2:28 I chose your ancestor, Aaron, out of all the tribes of Israel. I chose him and his descendants to be my priests. I chose them to offer sacrifices on my altar, to burn incense and to wear the special ephod. I also gave them authority to eat part of the sacrifices and burnt offerings that the Israelites offered to me." 
1Samuel2:29 But you and your sons do not respect the sacrifices that I have commanded people to offer in my house. Eli, you give more honour to your sons than you give to me. Your family eat all the best parts of the offerings that the Israelites bring to me. You have all become fat!”" 
1Samuel2:30 Because of what you have done, the Lord, Israel's God, says this to you: “I promised your family and your ancestors that they would serve me as priests for ever.” But now the Lord says, “That will never happen! I will give honour to people who respect me. But I will curse people who insult me." 
1Samuel2:31 So you and your family will soon come to an end. No one in your family will live to become old men. 
1Samuel2:32 You will see how trouble comes to my home here. Good things will happen to the Israelite people, but there will never be an old man in your family." 
1Samuel2:33 One of your descendants may continue to serve me as a priest. But he will be very sad and his eyes will become weak. Anyone who is born in your family will die when they are young. 
1Samuel2:34 This will show you that what I have said is true: Your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, will both die on the same day." 
1Samuel2:35 I will choose another priest to serve me. He will be faithful. He will do everything that I want him to do. I will give him a strong family and he will serve my chosen king for ever. 
1Samuel2:36 Everyone in your family who continues to live will have to bend down low to this priest. They will ask him for a few coins and a piece of bread. They will say, ‘Please let me help the priests so that I can have something to eat.’ ” ’" 
1Samuel3:1 The boy Samuel continued to serve the Lord. Eli the priest taught him what to do. In those days, the Lord did not often give his messages to people. He did not often show things to them in visions." 
1Samuel3:2 Eli's eyes had become weak. He could not see very well. One night, he was sleeping in his usual place." 
1Samuel3:3 The lamp of God was still burning. Samuel was lying down to sleep near the Covenant Box in the Lord 's house. 
1Samuel3:4 Then the Lord called out to Samuel. Samuel answered, ‘Here I am.’" 
1Samuel3:5 Samuel ran to Eli and he said, ‘You called my name. Here I am.’ But Eli said, ‘I did not call your name. Go back and lie down again.’ So Samuel went and he lay down again." 
1Samuel3:6 Again the Lord called out, ‘Samuel’. So Samuel went to Eli and he said, ‘You called my name. Here I am.’ Eli answered, ‘My son, I did not call your name. Go back and lie down again.’" 
1Samuel3:7 Samuel did not know the Lord yet. The Lord had not spoken to him before. 
1Samuel3:8 Then the Lord called Samuel's name for the third time. Samuel got up again. He went to Eli and he said, ‘You called my name. Here I am.’ Then Eli realized that it was the Lord who was calling the boy's name." 
1Samuel3:9 So Eli said to Samuel, ‘Go back and lie down again. If he calls your name again, you must say, “Speak, Lord. I am your servant and I am listening.” ’ So Samuel went back and he lay down in his place." 
1Samuel3:10 The Lord came and he stood near to Samuel. He called Samuel's name again, as he had done before. He said, ‘Samuel, Samuel.’ Samuel said, ‘Speak. I am your servant and I am listening.’" 
1Samuel3:11 Then the Lord said to Samuel, ‘Listen to me. I am ready to do something great among the Israelite people. When people hear about it, they will shake with fear." 
1Samuel3:12 When that day arrives, I will punish Eli and his family in all the ways that I have said. I will start at the beginning and I will continue to the end." 
1Samuel3:13 I have warned Eli that I would punish his family for all time. He knew that his sons were doing very bad things. They were insulting me, God, and Eli did not stop them." 
1Samuel3:14 So I made a strong promise and I said, “I will never forgive the sins of Eli's family. No sacrifices or offerings will ever take away those sins.” ’" 
1Samuel3:15 Samuel lay down again until the morning. Then he opened the doors of the Lord 's house. He was afraid to tell Eli about the vision that he had received from God. 
1Samuel3:16 But Eli called out to Samuel, ‘Samuel, my son.’ Samuel answered, ‘Here I am.’" 
1Samuel3:17 Eli asked Samuel, ‘What message did the Lord speak to you? You must not hide it from me. God will certainly punish you if you do not tell me everything that he said to you.’" 
1Samuel3:18 So Samuel told Eli everything. He did not hide any of God's message. Then Eli said, ‘The Lord must do what he thinks is right.’" 
1Samuel3:19 The Lord was with Samuel while he continued to grow up. So every message that Samuel spoke became true. 
1Samuel3:20 In all Israel, from the north to the south, everyone realized that Samuel was truly the Lord 's prophet." 
1Samuel3:21 The Lord continued to appear at Shiloh. He showed himself to Samuel and he spoke to him there. 
1Samuel4:1 Samuel spoke the Lord 's messages to all the Israelites. The Israelites went out to fight against the Philistines. The Israelite army put up their tents near the place called Ebenezer. The Philistine army put up their tents at Aphek. 
1Samuel4:2 The Philistines went to attack the Israelites. As the battle continued, the Philistines won the fight and they killed about 4,000 Israelites." 
1Samuel4:3 The Israelite soldiers returned to their tents. The leaders of Israel said to each other, ‘Why did the Lord let the Philistines win against us today? We should bring the Lord 's Covenant Box here from Shiloh. We will take it with us into the battle. Then it will save us from our enemies.’" 
1Samuel4:4 So the people sent men to Shiloh and they brought back the Lord 's Covenant Box. That is where the Lord Almighty sits between the cherubs. Eli's two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, also came with God's Covenant Box." 
1Samuel4:5 The men brought the Lord 's Covenant Box into the place where the soldiers' tents were. When the Israelites saw it, they shouted so loudly that the ground shook." 
1Samuel4:6 The Philistines heard the loud noise. They asked each other, ‘What is happening there among the Hebrew people's army?’ Then they realized that the Lord 's Covenant Box had arrived there." 
1Samuel4:7 They were afraid and they said, ‘Their gods have come to help them fight! We are in bad trouble. Nothing like this has happened to us before." 
1Samuel4:8 This is terrible! Nobody can save us from those powerful gods. Those gods punished the Egyptians with many bad diseases in the desert. 
1Samuel4:9 Philistine soldiers, you must be brave! You must fight as strong men! If not, we will become slaves of these Hebrew people, as they were once our slaves. So be ready to fight bravely!’" 
1Samuel4:10 So the Philistines did fight strongly and they won again. They killed 30,000 Israelite soldiers in the battle. The other Israelite soldiers all ran home." 
1Samuel4:11 The Philistines took God's Covenant Box for themselves. Eli's two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, also died." 
1Samuel4:12 That same day, a soldier of the tribe of Benjamin ran from the battle. He ran to Shiloh. He had torn his clothes and he had put dirt on his head." 
1Samuel4:13 Eli was sitting on his chair at the side of the road in Shiloh. He was waiting for news of the battle. He was worried about God's Covenant Box. He wanted to know if it was safe. When the soldier arrived in the city, he told the people what had happened in the battle. All the people started to cry loudly." 
1Samuel4:14 Eli heard the people's loud voices. He asked, ‘What is causing all the noise?’ The soldier quickly went to tell Eli the news." 
1Samuel4:15 Eli was now 98 years old and he could not see at all. 
1Samuel4:16 The soldier said to Eli, ‘I am the man who ran here today from the battle.’ Eli asked him, ‘What happened, my son?’" 
1Samuel4:17 The soldier replied, ‘The Israelites ran away while the Philistines chased them. The Philistines killed many of our soldiers. Your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead. And the Philistines have taken away God's Covenant Box.’" 
1Samuel4:18 Eli was sitting near the city's gate. He was old and fat. When the soldier spoke about God's Covenant Box, Eli fell back off his chair. His neck broke and he died. He had been a leader of Israel's people for 40 years." 
1Samuel4:19 At that time, Phinehas' wife was pregnant. She was ready to give birth. She heard the news that the Philistines had taken away God's Covenant Box. She heard that her husband Phinehas and his father Eli were dead. When she heard this news, she started to give birth to her baby. But she had a lot of pain." 
1Samuel4:20 She was dying. The women who were helping her said, ‘Do not be afraid. You have given birth to a son!’ But this did not make her happy. She did not answer them." 
1Samuel4:21 She called the boy's name Ichabod, because she said, ‘God's glory has gone away from Israel.’ She said this because the Philistines had taken away God's Covenant Box, and because her husband and his father had died." 
1Samuel4:22 She said, ‘God's glory has gone away from Israel because the Covenant Box has gone.’" 
1Samuel5:1 When the Philistines took God's Covenant Box, they took it from Ebenezer to the town of Ashdod." 
1Samuel5:2 They carried it into the temple of Dagon, their god. They put the box next to the idol of Dagon." 
1Samuel5:3 The next morning, the people in Ashdod got up early. They saw that Dagon had fallen down in front of the Lord 's Covenant Box. The idol's face was touching the ground. So they took Dagon and they put him back in his place." 
1Samuel5:4 The next morning, they got up early again. They saw that Dagon had fallen down in front of the Lord 's Covenant Box again! His head and both his hands had broken off. They were lying on the step of the temple's door. Only his body remained together." 
1Samuel5:5 Because of that, even today Dagon's priests and other people never walk on the step of Dagon's temple in Ashdod." 
1Samuel5:6 The Lord punished the people who lived in Ashdod. He caused them to have a lot of pain, as well as the people in the places near Ashdod. He caused tumours to grow on their bodies." 
1Samuel5:7 When the people in Ashdod saw what was happening, they said, ‘The Covenant Box of Israel's God must not stay here with us. He is punishing us and our god Dagon.’" 
1Samuel5:8 So the Philistine rulers met together. Ashdod's people asked them, ‘What should we do with the Covenant Box of Israel's God?’ The rulers answered, ‘Take it away to Gath.’ So the men took it to that city." 
1Samuel5:9 After they had moved the Covenant Box to Gath, the Lord punished the people in that city too. He made them all very afraid. He caused tumours to grow on them, young people as well as old people." 
1Samuel5:10 So then they took God's Covenant Box to Ekron. When God's Covenant Box arrived in Ekron, the people screamed. They said, ‘They have brought the Covenant Box of Israel's God here! They want to kill us all!’" 
1Samuel5:11 They called the Philistine rulers to meet together. Ekron's people said to them, ‘Take away the Covenant Box of Israel's God! Send it back to its proper place. If you leave it here, it will kill us and all our families.’ All the people in the town were afraid of death. God had already started to punish them a lot." 
1Samuel5:12 Many people had already died. All the other people in the town had tumours on their bodies. So they cried loudly up to the skies for help. 
1Samuel6:1 The Philistines had the Lord 's Covenant Box in their country for seven months. 
1Samuel6:2 Then they called their priests and their magicians to meet with them. The people asked them, ‘What must we do with the Lord 's Covenant Box? Tell us how we should send it back to its home.’" 
1Samuel6:3 The priests and magicians answered, ‘Send the Covenant Box of Israel's God back with a special offering. You must not send it back without anything. Send an offering so that their God will forgive you. Then you will get well again. You will understand why he has continued to punish you.’" 
1Samuel6:4 The people asked, ‘What offering should we send to their God, so that he will forgive us?’ The priests and magicians replied, ‘You must send gold images of five tumours and five mice. You must make five images of each one because the Philistines have five rulers. They have the same disease that all of you have." 
1Samuel6:5 Make images of the tumours and the mice that are destroying everything in the country. Do that to give honour to the God of Israel. Maybe then he will stop punishing you, your gods and your land." 
1Samuel6:6 Do not be like the Egyptians and Pharaoh, their king. They did not agree to obey God. So God punished them until they let the Israelites leave Egypt." 
1Samuel6:7 You must make a new cart. Find two cows that have just given birth to calves. It must be the first time that those cows have pulled a cart. Tie them to the cart with ropes so that they can pull it. Then take their calves away from them. 
1Samuel6:8 Put the Lord 's Covenant Box on the cart. Put another box on the cart with the gold images inside it. Those are your offerings to their God so that he will forgive you. Then send the cart away. 
1Samuel6:9 But continue to watch it carefully. The cows may pull it across our border to Beth Shemesh in Israel. If that happens, we will know that the God of Israel has punished us with this great trouble. But if the cart goes somewhere else, we will know that it was not their God who did this to us. We will know that our disease happened only by chance.’" 
1Samuel6:10 So the Philistines did what the priests and magicians told them. They took two cows that had just given birth to calves. They tied the cows to a cart. They took away their calves and they kept them at home. 
1Samuel6:11 They put the Lord 's Covenant Box on the cart. They put the other box beside it on the cart. That box contained the gold images of the mice and the tumours. 
1Samuel6:12 The cows pulled the cart straight along the road towards Beth Shemesh. They did not turn off the road at all, to the left side or the right side. As they went, they made a lot of noise. The Philistine rulers walked behind the cart all the way, as far as the edge of Beth Shemesh." 
1Samuel6:13 The people who lived in Beth Shemesh were working in their fields in the valley. They were cutting their wheat at harvest time. They looked up and they saw the Lord 's Covenant Box. They were very happy to see it. 
1Samuel6:14 The cows pulled the cart into a field. It belonged to Joshua, who lived in Beth Shemesh. The cows stopped next to a large rock. The Levites took the Lord 's Covenant Box off the cart. They put it on the large rock. They also put the box which contained the gold images on the rock. The people from Beth Shemesh cut up the cart. They used the wood to make a fire. Then they killed the cows. They burnt them on the fire as a burnt offering to the Lord. That day the people of Beth Shemesh offered many burnt offerings and other sacrifices to the Lord." 
1Samuel6:14 The cows pulled the cart into a field. It belonged to Joshua, who lived in Beth Shemesh. The cows stopped next to a large rock. The Levites took the Lord 's Covenant Box off the cart. They put it on the large rock. They also put the box which contained the gold images on the rock. The people from Beth Shemesh cut up the cart. They used the wood to make a fire. Then they killed the cows. They burnt them on the fire as a burnt offering to the Lord. That day the people of Beth Shemesh offered many burnt offerings and other sacrifices to the Lord." 
1Samuel6:15  
1Samuel6:16 The five Philistine rulers watched them as they did that. Then they returned to Ekron on the same day. 
1Samuel6:17 The Philistines had sent the gold tumours as an offering to the Lord. They wanted him to forgive them. There was one gold tumour for each of their five towns: Ashdod, Gaza, Ashkelon, Gath and Ekron." 
1Samuel6:18 The Philistines also sent five gold mice. There was one gold mouse for each of the five towns that had a ruler. Those were strong cities that had walls around them. Each town also had villages near to it. The large rock where the Levites put the Lord 's Covenant Box is still there. So we remember what happened that day in Joshua's field in Beth Shemesh. 
1Samuel6:18 The Philistines also sent five gold mice. There was one gold mouse for each of the five towns that had a ruler. Those were strong cities that had walls around them. Each town also had villages near to it. The large rock where the Levites put the Lord 's Covenant Box is still there. So we remember what happened that day in Joshua's field in Beth Shemesh. 
1Samuel6:19 But some of the men from Beth Shemesh looked inside the Lord 's Covenant Box. So God killed 70 of them. The people were very sad because the Lord had punished them so much. 
1Samuel6:20 The people of Beth Shemesh said, ‘The Lord is a holy God! Nobody can go near to him! We must send his Covenant Box away from us. But who can ever take care of it?’" 
1Samuel6:21 So they sent people to Kiriath-Jearim with a message. They said, ‘The Philistines have sent the Lord 's Covenant Box back to Israel. Please come and take it from us. Take it to your town.’" 
1Samuel7:1 So men came from Kiriath-Jearim to get the Lord 's Covenant Box. They took it to Abinadab's house. His house was on a hill. They chose his son, Eleazar, to take care of the Lord 's Covenant Box as his special job." 
1Samuel7:2 The Covenant Box stayed at Kiriath-Jearim for a long time. It was there for 20 years. During this time, the Israelites were sad. They prayed for the Lord to help them again." 
1Samuel7:3 Then Samuel said to all the Israelite people, ‘If you truly want to turn back to the Lord, you must show that you mean it. You must remove all your foreign gods and the images of Ashtoreth. You must give your lives completely to the Lord. You must worship only the Lord. If you do that, he will save you from the power of the Philistines.’" 
1Samuel7:4 So the Israelites removed all their idols of the false gods called Baal and Ashtoreth. They only worshipped the Lord. 
1Samuel7:5 Then Samuel told all the Israelites, ‘Meet together at Mizpah. I will pray to the Lord for you there.’" 
1Samuel7:6 So they all met together at Mizpah. They got water from a well and they poured it out for the Lord. They did not eat food that day. They prayed and they said, ‘We have done bad things against the Lord.’ Samuel became leader of the Israelite people at Mizpah." 
1Samuel7:7 The Philistines heard the news that the Israelites had met together at Mizpah. So the Philistine rulers led their people to attack the Israelites. When the Israelites heard about this, they became very afraid of the Philistines." 
1Samuel7:8 They said to Samuel, ‘Pray to the Lord our God. Do not stop. Ask him to help us. Ask him to save us from the Philistines.’" 
1Samuel7:9 So Samuel took a baby lamb. He gave it as a whole burnt offering to the Lord. Samuel asked the Lord to help the Israelites. The Lord answered his prayer in this way: 
1Samuel7:10 While Samuel was giving the burnt offerings to the Lord, the Philistines moved nearer to attack the Israelites. But the Lord caused a very loud noise of thunder to frighten the Philistines. They became very confused and they started to run away from the Israelites." 
1Samuel7:11 Then the Israelite men came out from Mizpah. They chased the Philistines as far as a place near Beth-Kar. They killed the Philistines as they chased them. 
1Samuel7:12 After that, Samuel took a stone. He fixed it in the ground between Mizpah and Shen. He called the stone Ebenezer. He said, ‘The Lord has helped us all this way.’" 
1Samuel7:13 That is how the Israelites won the fight against the Philistines. The Philistines did not attack Israel land again. All the time that Samuel was alive, the Lord stopped the Philistines from attacking Israel." 
1Samuel7:14 The Israelites took back the towns and the land that the Philistines had taken from them. These towns were between Ekron and Gath. Also, the Israelites and the Amorites did not fight against each other." 
1Samuel7:15 Samuel continued to be the leader of the Israelites while he was alive. 
1Samuel7:16 Every year, he travelled to Bethel, Gilgal and Mizpah. In all those towns he was a judge for the Israelite people." 
1Samuel7:17 But he always returned to his home at Ramah. He was a judge for the Israelite people there too. He built an altar in Ramah to worship the Lord there. 
1Samuel8:1 When Samuel was old, he made his sons judges for the Israelites." 
1Samuel8:2 The name of his firstborn son was Joel. The name of his second son was Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba town. 
1Samuel8:2 The name of his firstborn son was Joel. The name of his second son was Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba town. 
1Samuel8:3 But Samuel's sons did not live in a good way, as Samuel had done. They took money from people in ways that were not honest. They accepted bribes so that they did not judge in a fair way." 
1Samuel8:4 So all of Israel's leaders went together to meet Samuel at Ramah. 
1Samuel8:5 They said to him, ‘You are old. Your sons do not live in the way that you have done. All the other nations have kings to lead them. So choose a king to rule over us, like they have.’" 
1Samuel8:6 When Israel's leaders said, ‘Choose a king who will lead us,’ Samuel was not happy. So he prayed to the Lord." 
1Samuel8:7 The Lord said to Samuel, ‘Listen to everything that the people are saying to you. I myself should be their king. So it is not you that they refuse to accept. It is me that they do not accept to be their king." 
1Samuel8:8 They are doing what they have always done. Since I brought them out of Egypt they have continued to turn away from me. They have chosen to serve other gods. Now they are turning against you in the same way. 
1Samuel8:9 So do what they are asking you to do. But warn them about what will happen. Tell them how their kings will rule over them.’ 
1Samuel8:10 Samuel spoke to the people who had asked him to give them a king. He told them everything that the Lord had said to him. 
1Samuel8:11 Samuel said to them, ‘This is how the king will rule over you: He will take your sons to be his soldiers. They will ride his horses and they will drive his chariots. They will have to run in front of his own chariot." 
1Samuel8:12 The king will choose some of your sons to be officers in his army. Some will be leaders of 1,000 soldiers. Others will be leaders of 50 soldiers. Some of your sons will have to plough the king's fields. They will have to cut his crops at harvest time. They will have to make weapons for the king to fight wars. They will have to fix his chariots." 
1Samuel8:13 The king will take your daughters to serve him. They will have to make perfume for him. They will also have to cook and bake bread for him. 
1Samuel8:14 The king will take your best fields, vines and olive trees away from you. He will give all these to his own officers." 
1Samuel8:15 He will take a tenth part of all your seeds and grapes. He will give them to his officers and servants. 
1Samuel8:16 He will take your male and female servants for himself. He will take your best cows and your donkeys. He will use them for his own work. 
1Samuel8:17 He will take a tenth of all your sheep and your goats. You yourselves will become his servants too. 
1Samuel8:18 Then you will complain loudly to the Lord about your king that you have chosen to lead you. But the Lord will not answer you when you do that.’ 
1Samuel8:19 But the people would not listen to Samuel. They said, ‘No! We want a king to rule us." 
1Samuel8:20 We want to be like all the other nations! We want a king to rule us. He will be our leader when we go to fight our enemies.’ 
1Samuel8:21 Samuel listened to everything that the people said. Then he told the Lord about it all. 
1Samuel8:22 The Lord said to Samuel, ‘You must do what they want. You must give a king to them.’ Then Samuel told Israel's people, ‘Return to your own towns, each of you.’" 
1Samuel9:1 Kish was an important man from the tribe of Benjamin. He was the son of Abiel. Abiel was the son of Zeror. Zeror was the son of Becorath. Becorath was the son of Aphiah. Aphiah was a descendant of Benjamin. 
1Samuel9:2 Kish had a son whose name was Saul. Saul was a handsome young man. No other Israelite was more handsome than he was. When Saul stood with other people, you could see his head above everyone else." 
1Samuel9:3 Some of Kish's donkeys had run away. Kish said to Saul, ‘Go and look for my donkeys. Take one of the servants with you.’" 
1Samuel9:4 So Saul and the servant travelled through the hill country of Ephraim. They went across Shalisha region. But they did not find the donkeys there. Then they went to Shaalim region. The donkeys were not there either. They travelled through all the tribe of Benjamin's land. They still did not find the donkeys anywhere. 
1Samuel9:5 They reached the land of Zuph's clan. Saul said to his servant, ‘We must return home now. We have been away for a long time. My father will start to think that we have become lost. He will not be thinking about the donkeys any more.’" 
1Samuel9:6 The servant replied, ‘There is a servant of God who lives in this town. Everything that he says will happen really happens. So people respect him very much. We should go to meet him. Perhaps he will tell us which way we should go from here.’" 
1Samuel9:7 Saul said to his servant, ‘That is good, but what will we give to him? We have eaten all the food that we brought with us in our bags. What else do we have? We must give him something.’" 
1Samuel9:8 The servant answered, ‘I still have one small silver coin. I will give that to the servant of God. Then he will tell us which way we should go.’" 
1Samuel9:9 (That was the custom in Israel. If someone needed to hear a message from God, he would say, ‘We should go and talk with the seer.’ The man that we now call a prophet was called a ‘seer’ at that time.)" 
1Samuel9:10 Saul said to his servant, ‘That is a good idea. We should go now and see him.’ So they went to the town where the servant of God lived." 
1Samuel9:11 They went up the hill to the town. Some young women came out of the town to get some water at a well. Saul and his servant asked them, ‘Is the seer here?’" 
1Samuel9:12 They said, ‘Yes, he is here. Go straight along this road. You must hurry. The seer came to the town today because the people will offer a sacrifice. He will go with them to the altar on the hill." 
1Samuel9:13 When you go into the town, you will find him before he goes up there. The people will not start to eat until he comes. First, he must bless the sacrifice. Then he will eat with the people who are there. Go up into the town now and you will find him.’" 
1Samuel9:14 Saul and his servant went up towards the town. When they arrived there, Samuel came towards them. He was going up to the altar on the hill." 
1Samuel9:15 The day before Saul arrived, the Lord had already spoken to Samuel. He had said," 
1Samuel9:16 ‘Tomorrow I will send a man to you who comes from the land of Benjamin. He will arrive at about this time of day. Anoint him to be the ruler over my people, Israel. He will save my people from the power of the Philistines. My people have called out to me for help. Now I have decided to help them.’" 
1Samuel9:17 When Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him, ‘Here is the man that I told you about. He will rule over my people.’" 
1Samuel9:18 Saul met Samuel at the gate of the town. Saul said to him, ‘Please tell me where the seer's house is.’" 
1Samuel9:19 Samuel said to him, ‘I am the seer! Go in front of me now to the altar on the hill. You and your servant will eat a meal with me there. Tomorrow morning I will send you back to your home. Before that, I will tell you what you want to know." 
1Samuel9:20 Someone has already found the donkeys that you lost three days ago. Do not think any more about them. The only thing that the Israelite people want now is you! They want you and all your father's family.’ 
1Samuel9:21 Saul answered, ‘I belong to the tribe of Benjamin. It is the smallest tribe in the nation of Israel. And my family belongs to the smallest clan in that tribe. So why do you speak like this to me?’" 
1Samuel9:22 Then Samuel took Saul and his servant into the room where they would eat the meal. He made them sit in the most important seats in front of all the other people. About 30 people had come to eat the meal. 
1Samuel9:23 Samuel said to the cook, ‘Please bring me the special piece of meat that I gave to you. I told you to keep that piece separate.’" 
1Samuel9:24 So the cook brought the leg of meat and he put it down in front of Saul. Samuel said to Saul, ‘I kept this special piece of meat for you to eat. Eat it now. I kept it separate for this time when we would eat together. I chose it for you when I asked the people to come and eat this special meal.’ So Saul ate the meal with Samuel that day." 
1Samuel9:25 They came down from the hill and they went into the town. Samuel took Saul onto the roof of his house and they talked together. 
1Samuel9:26 They got up at dawn the next day. Saul had been sleeping on the roof. Samuel shouted up to him, ‘Get up and prepare to leave. I will send you on your journey.’ Saul got ready to leave to go home. Saul and Samuel went out into the street together." 
1Samuel9:27 They walked to the edge of the town. Samuel said to Saul, ‘Tell your servant to go on in front of us.’ So he did that. Then Samuel said, ‘Stay here for a moment. I need to tell you God's message.’" 
1Samuel10:1 Then Samuel took a jar of oil and he poured the oil on Saul's head. He kissed Saul. He said: ‘The Lord has anointed you as the leader of his people, the Israelites. You will rule over them and you will rescue them from the power of their enemies. This is how you will know that the Lord has chosen you to be the leader of his people:" 
1Samuel10:2 After you leave me today, you will meet two men at Zelzah on the border of Benjamin's land. They will be near the grave where Rachel is buried. The men will say to you, “Someone has found the donkeys that you were looking for. Your father is no longer thinking about his donkeys. Now he is upset because he does not know where you are. He continues to ask, ‘What can I do about my son?’ ”" 
1Samuel10:3 After you leave there, you will reach the big tree at Tabor. Three men will meet you there. They are going to Bethel to worship God there. One of the men will have three young goats with him. One of them will have three loaves of bread. The third man will have a bag full of wine." 
1Samuel10:4 They will say “hello” to you and they will offer you two loaves of bread. You must accept the bread. 
1Samuel10:5 Then you must go to God's special hill at Gibeah. Some Philistine soldiers have their camp there. When you reach the town, you will meet a group of prophets. They will be coming down from the hill where people worship God. They will be making music with their harps, tambourines, flutes and lyres. They will be prophesying as they go along." 
1Samuel10:6 Then the Lord 's Spirit will come to you with power. You will start to prophesy too. You will change to become like a different person. 
1Samuel10:7 After you see these things happen, you must do whatever seems right to you. God will be with you." 
1Samuel10:8 You must go to Gilgal and then I will come there. I will join with you there to offer burnt offerings and peace offerings to God. You must wait for seven days until I come. When I arrive at Gilgal, I will tell you what you should do.’" 
1Samuel10:9 Saul turned away to leave Samuel. At that moment, God gave Saul a new nature. Everything that Samuel had said to Saul happened that day." 
1Samuel10:10 When Saul and his servant arrived at Gibeah, a group of prophets met them. God's Spirit came on Saul with power. He started to prophesy as the prophets were doing." 
1Samuel10:11 People who already knew Saul could not understand what was happening. When they saw him prophesying along with the prophets, they asked each other, ‘What has happened to this son of Kish? Has Saul himself become a prophet?’" 
1Samuel10:12 A man who lived in Gibeah asked, ‘Do you know who is the father of all these prophets?’ Because of what happened, it became a proverb to say, ‘Has Saul himself become a prophet?’" 
1Samuel10:13 When Saul had finished prophesying, he went up to the hill where people worshipped God." 
1Samuel10:14 When Saul's uncle saw Saul and his servant, he asked them, ‘Where have you been?’ Saul said, ‘We went to look for the donkeys. We could not find them so we went to visit Samuel.’" 
1Samuel10:15 Saul's uncle said, ‘What did Samuel say to you?’" 
1Samuel10:16 Saul replied, ‘He told us that someone had found the donkeys.’ But Saul did not tell his uncle that Samuel had said that he would become the king." 
1Samuel10:17 Samuel sent a message to all Israel's people. He told them to come to Mizpah to meet with the Lord. 
1Samuel10:18 He said to them, ‘This is a message from the Lord, Israel's God: “I led you Israelites out from Egypt. I saved you from the power of the Egyptians. I also saved you from other kingdoms that were cruel to you." 
1Samuel10:19 I am the one who saves you from all your pain and troubles. But now you have turned against me, your God. You have said, ‘No! We want a king to rule over us instead.’ So now come and stand in front of the Lord. Stand together in your tribes and in your clans.” ’" 
1Samuel10:20 So each tribe came forward to Samuel, tribe by tribe. God chose Benjamin's tribe." 
1Samuel10:21 Then each family from Benjamin's tribe went forward. God chose the family of Matri. Then God chose Kish's son Saul from the family of Matri. They looked for Saul but nobody could find him. 
1Samuel10:22 So they asked the Lord, ‘Has Saul arrived here yet?’ The Lord said, ‘Yes, but he is hiding among the luggage.’" 
1Samuel10:23 So they ran to find Saul. They brought him out from there. When Saul stood among the people, you could see his head above everyone else." 
1Samuel10:24 Samuel said to all the people, ‘Look! Here is the man that the Lord has chosen. There is nobody like him among all the people.’ Then the people shouted, ‘May the king live for a long time!’" 
1Samuel10:25 Then Samuel explained to the people all the rules about a king. He wrote everything in a book. He put the book in a special place where they worshipped the Lord. Then Samuel told all the people to go to back to their homes. 
1Samuel10:26 Saul himself went back to his home at Gibeah. A group of brave men went with him. God had caused them to want to do that. 
1Samuel10:27 But some wicked men were complaining. They said, ‘This man will never be able to save us.’ They did not respect Saul. They did not bring him any gifts. But Saul did not say anything against them." 
1Samuel11:1 One month later, Nahash went with his army to attack Jabesh, a town in Gilead region. Nahash was an Ammonite. The people in Jabesh said to him, ‘Make an agreement with us so that we will serve you.’" 
1Samuel11:2 Nahash said, ‘I will make an agreement with you only if you let me do this. I must cut out the right eye of every person in your town. I want to bring shame on all Israel's people.’" 
1Samuel11:3 The leaders of Jabesh said to him, ‘Wait for seven more days. We will send a message to all the people in Israel. We will ask them to rescue us. If nobody comes to save us, we will agree to whatever you say.’" 
1Samuel11:4 Men took the message to Gibeah, the town where Saul lived. When they told the news to the people there, the people started to weep loudly." 
1Samuel11:5 Saul had been out on his farm. As he was returning home with his cows, he asked, ‘What has happened here? Why are the people weeping?’ They told Saul what the men from Jabesh had said." 
1Samuel11:6 When Saul heard the news, God's Spirit came on him with power. He became very angry." 
1Samuel11:7 He killed two of his oxen. He cut their bodies into pieces. He sent men with the pieces to all the towns in Israel. In each town, the men said, ‘Everyone must join Saul and Samuel to fight in their army. If you do not agree to join them, they will cut up your oxen just like this!’ The people became very afraid of what the Lord would do. So they all came together as one army." 
1Samuel11:8 They met together at Bezek. Saul counted 300,000 men from Israel and 30,000 men from Judah." 
1Samuel11:9 Saul said to the men who had brought the news from Jabesh, ‘Return to Jabesh. Tell the people, “We will come to rescue you tomorrow, before midday.” ’ So the men took the message to the people in Jabesh. The people were very happy." 
1Samuel11:10 The men there said to Nahash, ‘Tomorrow we will come out of the town to you. Then you can do anything that you want to us.’" 
1Samuel11:11 Early the next day, Saul put his soldiers into three groups. At dawn, they attacked the camp of the Ammonite soldiers. The Israelite soldiers continued to kill the Ammonites until midday. The Ammonite soldiers who were still alive ran away in different directions. Each man ran off by himself." 
1Samuel11:12 The Israelite people said to Samuel, ‘Bring to us those men who said, “We do not want Saul to rule over us.” We must kill them!’" 
1Samuel11:13 Saul said, ‘No, you must not kill anyone today. It is the day when the Lord has rescued Israel's people.’" 
1Samuel11:14 Samuel said to the people, ‘Now we will all go to Gilgal. We must all agree that Saul will continue to be our king.’" 
1Samuel11:15 So everyone went to Gilgal. They went to the place where they worshipped the Lord. They all agreed that Saul would be their king. They offered peace offerings to the Lord. Saul and all the Israelites were very happy. 
1Samuel12:1 Samuel said to all the Israelites, ‘I have done everything that you asked me to do. I have given you a king to rule over you." 
1Samuel12:2 Listen! You now have a king to be your leader, instead of me. I am old and my hair is grey. My sons are here with you. I have been your leader from the time when I was young until now." 
1Samuel12:3 Look at me. I stand here where the Lord and his chosen king can see me. Speak now if I have done any wrong thing against you. Have I taken anyone's cow or anyone's donkey? Have I cheated anyone? Have I been cruel to anyone? Have I received bribes from anyone to say that they are not guilty? If I have done any of those things, tell me! Then I will pay back my debt.’" 
1Samuel12:4 The Israelites answered, ‘You have not cheated us. You have not been cruel to us. You have not robbed any of us.’" 
1Samuel12:5 Samuel said to them, ‘The Lord and his chosen king have heard what you have said today. They know that I have not done a wrong thing against any of you.’ The people replied, ‘Yes, the Lord knows what we have said.’" 
1Samuel12:6 Then Samuel said to the people, ‘The Lord chose Moses and Aaron to lead his people. He brought your ancestors out from Egypt." 
1Samuel12:7 You must stand up now for the Lord to judge you. You need to remember all the great things that the Lord has done to help you and your ancestors. 
1Samuel12:8 After Jacob and his family went to Egypt, your ancestors called to the Lord for help. The Lord sent Moses and Aaron to help them. They led your ancestors out of Egypt. They brought them to live here in this land." 
1Samuel12:9 But your ancestors forgot about the Lord their God. So he let their enemies win against them. Sisera led an army from Hazor to attack the Israelites. The Philistines and the king of Moab also attacked them. 
1Samuel12:10 Then the Israelites called out to the Lord for help. They said, “We have done bad things. We have turned away from the Lord and we have worshipped idols of Baal and images of Ashtoreth. Please save us from our enemies and we will worship you.”" 
1Samuel12:11 So the Lord sent Gideon, Barak, Jephthah and Samuel to help you. The Lord saved you from all your enemies so that you could live safely." 
1Samuel12:12 But then you saw that Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, was coming to attack you. So you said to me, “Now we want a king to rule over us.” You forgot that the Lord your God is your king." 
1Samuel12:13 Look! Here is the king that you chose. He is the man that you asked to have. The Lord has made him your king. 
1Samuel12:14 You must respect the Lord with fear. You must obey what he commands you to do. You and the king who rules over you must serve only the Lord your God. If you do that, everything will go well for you." 
1Samuel12:15 But the Lord will punish you and your king if you do not obey him. You must not turn against him again. 
1Samuel12:16 Now stand where you are and watch! The Lord will do a great thing and you will see it. 
1Samuel12:17 This is the time of the wheat harvest. I will ask the Lord to send thunder and rain. Then you will understand that you have done an evil thing against the Lord. You asked for a king to rule over you.’ 
1Samuel12:18 Samuel prayed to the Lord. That same day the Lord sent thunder and rain. All the people became afraid of the Lord and of Samuel. 
1Samuel12:19 They said to Samuel, ‘Please pray to the Lord your God for us. We do not want to die! We realize that we have done many bad things in past times. Now we have added to those sins when we asked to have a king.’" 
1Samuel12:20 Samuel said to the people, ‘Do not be afraid. It is true that you have done an evil thing. But do not turn away from the Lord. Instead, serve him with all your strength." 
1Samuel12:21 Do not worship idols. They are useless things. They cannot help you. They will never save you. 
1Samuel12:22 The Lord was pleased to choose you to be his own people. He will show that he is faithful and he will not leave you alone. 
1Samuel12:23 As for me, I will not stop praying for you. That would be a sin against the Lord. I will teach you how to live in the right way." 
1Samuel12:24 But you must respect and obey the Lord. You must serve him faithfully with all your strength. Remember the great things that he has done for you. 
1Samuel12:25 If you continue to do evil things, that will be the end of you and your king.’" 
1Samuel13:1 Saul was 30 years old when he became king. He ruled Israel as king for 42 years. 
1Samuel13:2 He chose 3,000 men from Israel's army to be with him. 2,000 of those men stayed with him at Michmash and in the hill country of Bethel. Then 1,000 men were with his son Jonathan at Gibeah, in the land of Benjamin's tribe. Saul sent all the other men of the army back to their homes." 
1Samuel13:3 Some Philistine soldiers had a camp at Geba. Jonathan attacked them there and all the Philistines heard about it. Saul sent a message through all Israel to warn people of the danger. He said, ‘Listen, all you Hebrew people!’" 
1Samuel13:4 Everyone in Israel heard this message: ‘Saul has attacked the Philistines' camp. Now the Philistines hate the Israelites even more than they did before.’ So all the soldiers in Israel came to join Saul at Gilgal. 
1Samuel13:5 The Philistines' army came together to fight against the Israelites. The Philistines had 3,000 chariots. They had 6,000 soldiers who rode on horses. Their whole army had more soldiers than the sand on the shore of the sea! The Philistine army went to make their camp at Michmash, which was east of Beth Aven." 
1Samuel13:6 The Israelites realized that they would be in big trouble if the Philistines attacked them. Some of them went and hid in caves or among the bushes. Others hid among the rocks, in holes in the ground or in wells." 
1Samuel13:7 Some of the Israelite soldiers went across the Jordan River. They escaped to the land of Gad and Gilead. Saul himself stayed at Gilgal. All the soldiers that were still with him were shaking with fear. 
1Samuel13:8 Samuel had told Saul that he must wait for him to come to Gilgal. Saul waited for seven days as Samuel had said. But Samuel still had not arrived. Saul's army began to leave him. 
1Samuel13:9 So Saul said, ‘Bring the burnt offering and the peace offerings to me.’ Then Saul offered the burnt offering to God." 
1Samuel13:10 Just as he finished doing that, Samuel arrived. Saul went to meet Samuel and to say ‘hello’." 
1Samuel13:11 Samuel asked Saul, ‘What have you done?’ Saul replied, ‘The soldiers were starting to leave me. You had not arrived here at the time that you said you would come. I could see that the Philistine soldiers were preparing for battle at Michmash." 
1Samuel13:12 I thought that they would come to attack me at Gilgal. I thought, “Before they do that, I must ask the Lord to help us in the fight.” Because of that, I had to offer the burnt offering to him.’" 
1Samuel13:13 Samuel said, ‘You have done a foolish thing. You have not obeyed the command of the Lord your God. If you had obeyed the Lord, he would have let you and your family rule Israel for ever." 
1Samuel13:14 But because of what you have done, your kingdom will not continue. Instead, the Lord will find a man who pleases him. The Lord has decided that this man will become the leader of his people, instead of you. He will do that because you have not obeyed his command.’" 
1Samuel13:15 After that, Samuel left Gilgal. He went to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin's tribe. Saul counted the soldiers who were still with him. There were about 600 men." 
1Samuel13:16 Saul and his son Jonathan were staying in Geba, in the land of Benjamin's tribe. They had their soldiers with them there. The Philistines had their camp at Michmash." 
1Samuel13:17 The Philistines sent out three small groups of soldiers to attack towns in Israel. One group went towards Ophrah in the land of Shual. 
1Samuel13:18 The second group went towards Beth Horon. The third group went to Israel's border where they could see across Zeboim Valley towards the wilderness. 
1Samuel13:19 At that time, there were no people in Israel who could use iron to make things. The Philistines had said, ‘We must not let the Hebrew people make swords and spears.’" 
1Samuel13:20 So the Israelites had to ask the Philistines to mend their ploughs, axes, hoes and knives that they used on their farms." 
1Samuel13:21 The Israelites had to pay eight grams of silver for the Philistines to make each plough or hoe sharp again. They paid four grams of silver for each axe, knife or ox-goad." 
1Samuel13:22 So when the fight started, the soldiers that were with Saul and Jonathan did not have any swords or spears. Only Saul and his son Jonathan had them." 
1Samuel13:23 A group of Philistine soldiers went to the narrow road across the hills at Michmash. 
1Samuel14:1 A young man carried the armour of Saul's son Jonathan. One day, Jonathan said to the young man, ‘Come with me. We will go over to the place where the Philistine soldiers have their camp.’ But Jonathan did not tell his father what he was doing." 
1Samuel14:2 Saul was staying near Gibeah. He sat under a big fruit tree at Migron. There were about 600 soldiers with him. 
1Samuel14:3 The priest Ahijah was with Saul. Ahijah wore the priest's ephod. Ahijah was the son of Ichabod's brother, Ahitub. Ahitub was the son of Phinehas and the grandson of Eli. Eli was the priest who had served the Lord in Shiloh. Nobody knew that Jonathan had left." 
1Samuel14:4 To reach the Philistines, he had to go along a narrow valley. There were high rocks on both sides of the road. The name of one rock was ‘Bozez’. The name of the other rock was ‘Seneh’." 
1Samuel14:5 The rock on the north side of the road was near Michmash. The rock on the south side was near Geba. 
1Samuel14:6 Jonathan said to the young man who carried his armour, ‘Now we will go to the camp of those foreign people. Perhaps the Lord will help us to win the fight. He can win a battle whether there are many soldiers or only a few.’" 
1Samuel14:7 The young man said, ‘You must do whatever you think is right. I will serve you faithfully all the way.’" 
1Samuel14:8 Jonathan said, ‘Listen! We will go across to the Philistines now. We will let them see us." 
1Samuel14:9 They may tell us to stop and wait for them to come to us. If they say that, we will stay here." 
1Samuel14:10 But they may ask us to go up and fight against them. Then we will do that. We will know that the Lord has put them under our power. It will be his sign to us.’ 
1Samuel14:11 Jonathan and the young man stood where the Philistine soldiers could see them. The Philistines said, ‘Look! The Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have been hiding.’" 
1Samuel14:12 They shouted to Jonathan and the young man, ‘Come up here to fight against us! We will teach you how to fight!’ Jonathan said to the young man, ‘Follow me as I climb up to them. The Lord has put those men under Israel's power!’" 
1Samuel14:13 Jonathan climbed up the rock wall on his hands and his feet. The young man climbed up behind him. Jonathan attacked and killed some of the Philistines. The young man followed behind Jonathan and killed more of them. 
1Samuel14:14 In the first fight, Jonathan and his young man killed about 20 Philistines in a small area." 
1Samuel14:15 All the other soldiers in the Philistine army then became very afraid. This included the soldiers in the camp, those in the fields, those who were guards, and the groups who were attacking other towns. Even the ground shook because God had made them all very afraid." 
1Samuel14:16 Some of Saul's soldiers who were with him in Gibeah were watching the Philistines. They saw that their soldiers were running away in different directions. 
1Samuel14:17 Saul said to his men, ‘Count our soldiers. Find out who is not here.’ When they did that, Jonathan and the young man who carried his armour were not there." 
1Samuel14:18 Saul said to Ahijah the priest, ‘Bring the ephod here.’ At that time, Ahijah was wearing the ephod." 
1Samuel14:19 While Saul was saying this, the Philistine soldiers were making more and more noise. They were all very confused. So Saul said to the priest, ‘Take your hand out of the ephod. It is time to go!’" 
1Samuel14:20 Then Saul and all the soldiers who were with him marched out to battle. They found that the Philistines were completely confused. They were fighting each other with their swords. 
1Samuel14:21 Before this time, some of the Hebrew men had gone to join with the Philistine army. Now they went back to join the Israelite army with Saul and Jonathan." 
1Samuel14:22 The Israelite soldiers who had hidden in the hill country of Ephraim also heard the news. When they knew that the Philistine soldiers were running away, they chased after them as well." 
1Samuel14:23 In that way, the Lord saved Israel's people on that day. The battle moved all the way to Beth Aven and beyond it." 
1Samuel14:24 The Israelite soldiers became very weak and hungry that day. Saul had told his army to agree to this promise: ‘Nobody may eat any food before this evening. By then I will have won against my enemies. If anyone eats anything before then, may God curse him!’ So no soldier in Saul's army ate any food." 
1Samuel14:25 Saul's army went into a forest. There was honey on the ground. 
1Samuel14:26 The men saw all the honey but none of them ate any of it. They were afraid that God would curse them. 
1Samuel14:27 But Jonathan had not heard about the soldiers' promise to his father. He pushed the end of his stick into the honey. He took some honey on his fingers and he ate it. Then he felt stronger. 
1Samuel14:28 One of the soldiers told Jonathan, ‘Your father made us promise not to eat any food today. We all agreed that God should curse anyone who eats anything. That is why we are all so weak.’" 
1Samuel14:29 Jonathan said, ‘My father has caused a lot of trouble for all the people. Look what happened when I ate only a little bit of honey. I became strong again!" 
1Samuel14:30 When our army won against our enemies today, we could have eaten the food that they left. Then our soldiers would have been strong enough to kill many more Philistines.’" 
1Samuel14:31 That day, the Israelite army killed many Philistine soldiers. They chased the Philistines all the way from Michmash to Aijalon. After this, the Israelites became tired and weak." 
1Samuel14:32 So they quickly took sheep, cows and calves from the Philistines as food to eat. The soldiers were so hungry that they killed the animals on the ground. Then they ate the meat with the blood still in it." 
1Samuel14:33 Someone told Saul, ‘Look at what the army is doing. They are eating meat that still has blood in it. That is a sin against the Lord.’ Saul said to his soldiers, ‘You have turned against the Lord! Find a large stone and roll it here to me.’" 
1Samuel14:34 Then Saul said, ‘Go around to tell all the soldiers, “Bring the cows and the sheep here. Kill them properly and eat them here. Do not eat meat which still has blood in it. That is a sin against the Lord.” ’ So that night every soldier brought an animal. They killed their animals on the stone." 
1Samuel14:35 Then Saul built an altar to worship the Lord. It was the first time that he had built an altar for the Lord. 
1Samuel14:36 Then Saul said, ‘We will go tonight and we will attack the Philistines again. We will chase them all night until dawn. We will kill all of them.’ The men answered, ‘Do whatever you think is right.’ But the priest said, ‘We should ask God first.’" 
1Samuel14:37 Saul asked God, ‘Should we attack the Philistines? Will you give us power over them?’ But God did not answer Saul that day." 
1Samuel14:38 So Saul said to all the leaders of the army, ‘Come here. Someone has done a bad thing today. We must find out who has done it." 
1Samuel14:39 The Lord is the one who rescues Israel. As surely as the Lord lives, I promise that I will punish the man who has done this bad thing. Whoever it is must die, even if it is my own son Jonathan.’ But nobody in the army said anything." 
1Samuel14:40 Saul said to all the Israelites, ‘You stand on this side. My son Jonathan and I will stand on the other side.’ The people answered, ‘Do what you think is right.’" 
1Samuel14:41 Then Saul prayed to the Lord, Israel's God. He said, ‘Please show us who has done this sin. Let the special stones, Urim and Thummim, show who has done it.’ The stones chose Jonathan and Saul. They did not choose the soldiers of the army." 
1Samuel14:42 Then Saul said, ‘Let the stones show whether it was Jonathan or me.’ The stones chose Jonathan." 
1Samuel14:43 Saul said to Jonathan, ‘Tell me what you have done.’ Jonathan told him, ‘I pushed the end of my stick into some honey. I ate a little bit. You have said that I must die.’" 
1Samuel14:44 Saul said, ‘Jonathan, you must surely die! I ask God to kill me if I do not punish you with death.’" 
1Samuel14:45 But the soldiers said to Saul, ‘No! Jonathan must not die! He has rescued Israel in battle. As surely as the Lord lives, we promise that he will not lose even one hair on his head. It is God who has helped Jonathan to win the fight today.’ In that way, the army saved Jonathan from death." 
1Samuel14:46 After that, Saul stopped fighting against the Philistines. The Philistines returned to their homes." 
1Samuel14:47 After Saul became king of Israel, he fought against all their enemies. He fought against the Moabites, the Ammonites and the Edomites. He fought against the kings who ruled in Zobah. He also fought against the Philistines. Saul won against all Israel's enemies, wherever they were." 
1Samuel14:48 He fought very bravely and he won against the Amalekites. Saul kept Israel safe from all the people who attacked them. 
1Samuel14:49 Saul's sons were Jonathan, Ishvi and Malki-Shua. Saul had two daughters. Merab was his older daughter. Michal was his younger daughter." 
1Samuel14:50 The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam. She was the daughter of Ahimaaz. Abner was the leader of Saul's army. He was the son of Saul's uncle, Ner." 
1Samuel14:51 Abiel was the father of both Saul's father, Kish, and Abner's father, Ner." 
1Samuel14:52 During all of Saul's life there were wars between the Philistines and the Israelites. If Saul found a strong soldier or a brave man, he caused the man to join his army." 
1Samuel15:1 Samuel said to Saul, ‘The Lord sent me to anoint you as king to rule his people, the Israelites. So now listen to this message from the Lord." 
1Samuel15:2 This is what the Lord Almighty says: “It is time to punish the Amalekites! When the Israelites came out of Egypt, the Amalekites attacked them." 
1Samuel15:3 Now go and attack the Amalekites. Completely destroy everything that they have. Do not save anything. Kill the men and women, as well as their children and babies. Kill their cows, sheep, camels and donkeys.” ’" 
1Samuel15:4 So Saul called his army to come together. The men met at Telaim and Saul counted them. There were 200,000 soldiers from Israel and another 10,000 men from Judah's tribe." 
1Samuel15:5 Saul and his army went to the city of the Amalekites. They waited in a small valley to attack their enemy. 
1Samuel15:6 Saul said to the Kenite people, ‘Go away from here! I will kill the Amalekites, but I do not want to kill you. You were kind to the Israelites when they came out from Egypt.’ So the Kenites moved away from the Amalekites." 
1Samuel15:7 Then Saul attacked the Amalekites. He fought them all the way from Havilah to Shur, which is east of Egypt." 
1Samuel15:8 Saul caught their king, Agag, while he was still alive. Saul's soldiers used their swords to kill all of Agag's people." 
1Samuel15:9 But Saul and the army let King Agag live. Also, they did not kill the best sheep, lambs, cows and fat calves. They kept all the good things and they did not agree to destroy them. But they killed everything that was weak and useless." 
1Samuel15:10 Then the Lord gave this message to Samuel: 
1Samuel15:11 ‘I am sorry that I chose Saul to be king. He has turned away from me. He has not obeyed my commands.’ When Samuel heard that, he was very upset. He prayed aloud to the Lord all that night." 
1Samuel15:12 Samuel got up early the next morning. He went to meet Saul. Someone told Samuel, ‘Saul went to Carmel. He has put up a tall stone to give himself honour. Now he has left there and he has gone to Gilgal.’" 
1Samuel15:13 Samuel went to Gilgal and he found Saul. Saul said to Samuel, ‘I pray that the Lord will bless you. I have obeyed the Lord 's command.’" 
1Samuel15:14 But Samuel said, ‘If that is true, why can I hear the noise of sheep and cows?’" 
1Samuel15:15 Saul answered, ‘My soldiers took them from the Amalekites. They saved the best sheep and cows. They will offer them to the Lord your God as sacrifices. We killed all the other animals.’" 
1Samuel15:16 Samuel said to Saul, ‘Listen to me! I will tell you what the Lord said to me last night.’ Saul said, ‘Tell me.’" 
1Samuel15:17 Samuel said, ‘At one time, you thought that you were not an important person. Now you have become the leader of all the tribes of Israel. The Lord chose you to be king of Israel." 
1Samuel15:18 He gave you a job to do. He told you, “Go and kill all those wicked Amalekites. Fight against them until you have destroyed them all.”" 
1Samuel15:19 Why did you not obey the Lord? Instead you have been greedy. You have hurried to take things for yourself. You have done something evil that does not please the Lord.’ 
1Samuel15:20 Saul said to Samuel, ‘I did obey the Lord! I did the job that the Lord told me to do. I killed all the Amalekites and I brought back Agag, their king." 
1Samuel15:21 But the army did not kill all the sheep and cows that they took from the Amalekites. They brought the best animals to offer as a sacrifice to the Lord your God at Gilgal.’ 
1Samuel15:22 But Samuel said, ‘What makes the Lord happy? Which is better? Is he more pleased when people offer burnt offerings and sacrifices to him? Or is he more pleased when people obey him? Listen! It is better to obey the Lord than to offer sacrifices to him. That is true even if you offer to him the best animals that you have." 
1Samuel15:23 You have turned against God. That is worse than using magic. You think that you know what is right better than God does. That is as bad as worshipping idols. You decided not to obey the Lord 's command. Now the Lord has decided that you will not be king any longer.’ 
1Samuel15:24 Then Saul said to Samuel, ‘It is true, I have done a bad thing. I did not obey the Lord 's command. I did not do what you told me to do. I was afraid of the army. I agreed to do what they wanted." 
1Samuel15:25 Please forgive my sin. Return with me so that I can worship the Lord.’ 
1Samuel15:26 But Samuel said to Saul, ‘I will not return with you. You refused to obey the Lord 's command. So now the Lord has decided that you will no longer be king of Israel.’" 
1Samuel15:27 Samuel turned away to leave Saul. But Saul pulled the edge of Samuel's coat and it tore. 
1Samuel15:28 Samuel said to him, ‘The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel away from you today. He has given it to a man who is better than you." 
1Samuel15:29 The great God who rules over Israel always does what he says he will do. He does not change his mind. People may change their minds, but he does not!’" 
1Samuel15:30 Saul said again, ‘I have done a bad thing. But please show Israel's leaders and people that you respect me. Please return with me so that I can worship the Lord your God.’" 
1Samuel15:31 So Samuel went back with Saul. Saul worshipped the Lord. 
1Samuel15:32 Then Samuel said, ‘Bring Agag, king of the Amalekites, to me.’ Agag came to Samuel. Agag was happy because he thought, ‘I am sure that now I will not have to die a painful death.’" 
1Samuel15:33 But Samuel said to Agag, ‘You have used your sword to kill the children of many mothers. Now your own mother will have no children that are still alive.’ Then Samuel cut Agag into pieces at the Lord 's altar in Gilgal." 
1Samuel15:34 Then Samuel left Gilgal and he went to his home in Ramah. Saul went to his home in Gibeah. 
1Samuel15:35 Until Samuel died, he never saw Saul again. Samuel was very sad about Saul. But the Lord was sorry that he had chosen Saul to be king of Israel." 
1Samuel16:1 The Lord said to Samuel, ‘Stop being sad about Saul. I have decided that he will no longer be the king of Israel. Fill your horn with olive oil and go. I am sending you to a man whose name is Jesse. He lives in Bethlehem. I have chosen one of his sons to become king.’" 
1Samuel16:2 Samuel said, ‘If I go to do that, people will tell Saul about it. Then he will kill me.’ The Lord said, ‘Take a calf with you. Tell the people that you have come to offer a sacrifice to the Lord." 
1Samuel16:3 Then ask Jesse to come to the sacrifice. I will show you what to do after that. I will show you the person that you must anoint with the oil.’ 
1Samuel16:4 Samuel obeyed the Lord. He went to Bethlehem. The leaders of the town went to meet Samuel, but they were very afraid. They asked him, ‘Have you come to visit us as a friend?’" 
1Samuel16:5 Samuel replied, ‘Yes. I do not bring any trouble. I have come to offer a sacrifice to the Lord. Make yourselves clean. Then come to the sacrifice with me.’ Samuel made Jesse and his sons clean to worship the Lord. Then he took them with him to the sacrifice." 
1Samuel16:6 When they arrived, Samuel saw Jesse's son Eliab. Samuel thought, ‘I am sure that the Lord has chosen this man to be king.’" 
1Samuel16:7 But the Lord said to Samuel, ‘Do not look at how handsome or how tall Eliab is. I have not chosen him. The Lord does not look at people in the way that people do. People look at the face and body of a person. But the Lord sees what they are like inside.’" 
1Samuel16:8 Then Jesse called his son Abinadab. Jesse caused him to stand in front of Samuel. But Samuel said, ‘The Lord has not chosen this man either.’" 
1Samuel16:9 Jesse caused his son Shammah to stand in front of Samuel. But Samuel said, ‘The Lord has not chosen this man.’" 
1Samuel16:10 Jesse caused seven of his sons to stand in front of Samuel. But Samuel said to Jesse, ‘The Lord has not chosen any of these men.’" 
1Samuel16:11 Samuel asked Jesse, ‘Are those all of your sons?’ Jesse answered, ‘I have one more son. He is the youngest. He is taking care of my sheep.’ Samuel said, ‘Send someone to bring him here. We cannot continue to offer the sacrifice until he arrives.’" 
1Samuel16:12 So Jesse told his men to bring his youngest son for Samuel to see. This young man was handsome and strong and he had beautiful eyes. The Lord said to Samuel, ‘I have chosen this man. Now anoint him as king.’" 
1Samuel16:13 Samuel took the horn that was full of olive oil. He poured the oil over David's head to anoint him. Samuel did this in front of David's brothers. From that moment, the Spirit of the Lord came on David with great power. Then Samuel returned to his home in Ramah." 
1Samuel16:14 The Spirit of the Lord had now gone away from Saul. The Lord sent an evil spirit to Saul. It gave Saul trouble and fear in his mind. 
1Samuel16:15 Saul's servants said to him, ‘We know that God has sent an evil spirit which is giving you much trouble." 
1Samuel16:16 If you agree, we will look for a man who can make music on a harp. When the evil spirit gives you trouble, this man can make music. Then you will not feel so upset.’" 
1Samuel16:17 Saul agreed and he said to his servants, ‘Find someone who can make good music with a harp. Then bring him to me.’" 
1Samuel16:18 One of the servants said, ‘I know one man who can play a harp very well. He is one of Jesse's sons, who lives in Bethlehem. This man is a brave soldier. He speaks well and he is handsome. The Lord is with him.’" 
1Samuel16:19 So Saul sent his men to Jesse with this message: ‘Tell your son David to come to me. That is your son who takes care of your sheep.’ 
1Samuel16:20 So Jesse took some loaves of bread, a bag with wine in it, and a young goat. He put them on the back of a donkey and he sent them to Saul with his son David." 
1Samuel16:21 David went to Saul. He became Saul's servant. Saul loved David. David carried Saul's armour for him. 
1Samuel16:22 Then Saul sent a message to Jesse. He said, ‘I am very pleased with David. Let him stay here as my servant.’" 
1Samuel16:23 So, when the evil spirit brought trouble to Saul, David made music on his harp. Then Saul would feel happier and the evil spirit would leave him." 
1Samuel17:1 The Philistine army came together. They were ready to fight the Israelites. They met together near Sokoh, a town in Judah. They put up their tents at Ephes Dammim between Sokoh and Azekah." 
1Samuel17:2 Saul and the Israelite army put up their tents in Elah Valley. The soldiers prepared to fight against the Philistines. 
1Samuel17:3 The Philistines were standing on one hill. The Israelites were on another hill. The valley was between the two armies. 
1Samuel17:4 The Philistines had a strong, brave soldier. His name was Goliath and he came from a town called Gath. He was nearly three metres tall!" 
1Samuel17:5 He wore a helmet and armour that were made of bronze. The armour for his body weighed about 57 kilograms. 
1Samuel17:6 He had pieces of bronze to protect his legs. He had a bronze sword that he tied on his back. 
1Samuel17:7 He also carried a heavy spear. It was as thick as a tree. The iron point on the spear weighed about seven kilograms. A man who carried Goliath's shield walked in front of him. 
1Samuel17:8 Goliath stood up and he shouted to the Israelite soldiers, ‘Why have you all got ready to fight against us? I am the great soldier of the Philistine army. You serve Saul as his soldiers. Is that not true? So you must choose one of your men to come and fight against me." 
1Samuel17:9 If he can kill me in a fight, we Philistines will become your slaves. But if I knock him down and I kill him, then you Israelites will become our slaves.’" 
1Samuel17:10 Then Goliath said, ‘I am not afraid of any of your soldiers! Choose one of your men and we will fight against each other.’" 
1Samuel17:11 King Saul and all the Israelite soldiers heard what Goliath said. It made them very upset and afraid. 
1Samuel17:12 At this time, David's father Jesse was a very old man. Jesse belonged to the clan of Ephrathah. He came from Bethlehem town in Judah. He had eight sons." 
1Samuel17:13 Jesse's three oldest sons had joined Saul's army to fight the war. They were Eliab, Jesse's oldest son, his second son, Abinadab, and his third son, Shammah." 
1Samuel17:14 David was Jesse's youngest son. While Jesse's three oldest sons were in Saul's army," 
1Samuel17:15 David would sometimes leave Saul and go back home to Bethlehem. He did that to take care of his father's sheep. 
1Samuel17:16 For 40 days, Goliath would stand up and insult the Israelite army every morning and every evening." 
1Samuel17:17 One day, Jesse said to his son David, ‘Take some food to your brothers in the army. Here is a large bag of grain that we have cooked, and ten loaves of bread. Take them quickly to the army camp." 
1Samuel17:18 Also take these ten pieces of cheese to the officer who leads their group of soldiers. Find out whether your brothers are well. Bring something back to me to show how they are. 
1Samuel17:19 They are in Elah Valley with Saul and the Israelite army, where they are fighting against the Philistines.’" 
1Samuel17:20 So David got up early the next morning. He left his father's sheep with another shepherd to take care of them. He did what his father had told him to do. He took the food to give to his brothers. When David arrived at the camp of the Israelite army, the soldiers were going out to fight. They were shouting their war songs while they went." 
1Samuel17:21 The Israelite army and the Philistine army stood in their places ready for the fight. They looked towards each other across the valley. 
1Samuel17:22 David gave his gifts to the officer who took care of the army's food. Then he ran to the place where the Israelite soldiers were standing. He said ‘hello’ to his brothers to see if they were well. 
1Samuel17:23 While David was talking to his brothers, Goliath marched out from the Philistine army. He was the great Philistine soldier from Gath. As he came, Goliath was insulting the Israelites as he did every day. David heard what he said." 
1Samuel17:24 When all the Israelite soldiers saw Goliath, they were very afraid. They ran away from him." 
1Samuel17:25 The Israelites said to each other, ‘Look at this man! He is so strong! He comes every day to insult us. King Saul will give great riches to any man who can kill Goliath. The king will give his daughter to that man, for him to marry her. His family will never again have to pay taxes to the king.’" 
1Samuel17:26 David asked the men who were standing near him, ‘If someone kills this Philistine soldier and takes away the shame from Israel, what gift will he get? He is an unclean Philistine! He must stop insulting the army of our God, who lives for ever.’" 
1Samuel17:27 The men then told David what the king had promised to do. They said, ‘This is what the king will do to help the man who kills that Philistine soldier.’" 
1Samuel17:28 When David was speaking with the soldiers, his oldest brother, Eliab, heard him. He became angry with David. He asked David, ‘Why have you come here? You should be taking care of a few sheep in the wilderness. Who is taking care of them now? I know how proud you are! I know about your wicked ideas! You came here only to watch the battle.’" 
1Samuel17:29 David said, ‘Have I done anything wrong? I only asked a question.’" 
1Samuel17:30 So David went away and he asked other people the same question. All the men gave him the same answer. 
1Samuel17:31 Some of the soldiers went to King Saul and they told him what David had said. Saul told David to come to him. 
1Samuel17:32 David said to King Saul, ‘We should not be afraid of this Philistine! I am your servant. I am ready to go and fight against him.’" 
1Samuel17:33 Saul replied, ‘You could not fight against this strong Philistine. You are only a boy! He has been a brave soldier since he was a young man.’" 
1Samuel17:34 But David said to Saul, ‘Sir, I have been a shepherd who takes care of his father's sheep. Sometimes a lion or a bear would come to take a lamb from among the sheep." 
1Samuel17:35 Then I would chase after the lion or the bear. I would knock it down and I would save the lamb from its mouth. If the wild animal turned to attack me, I would take hold of its neck. Then I would hit it and kill it." 
1Samuel17:36 I have killed lions and bears like that. I will do the same to this unclean Philistine. He has insulted the army of our God, who lives for ever." 
1Samuel17:37 The Lord has kept me safe from lions and bears. He will also save me from the power of this Philistine soldier.’ So Saul said to David, ‘Then do it! I pray that the Lord will help you.’" 
1Samuel17:38 Saul took his own clothes and armour and he put them on David. He put his bronze helmet on David's head. 
1Samuel17:39 David tied Saul's sword on top of the armour. Then he tried to walk. But he had not worn heavy armour like that before. So David said to Saul, ‘I cannot wear all this armour to fight. I have not used armour before.’ So David took it all off." 
1Samuel17:40 Instead, David picked up his shepherd's stick. He picked up five round stones from the stream. He put them in the pocket of his shepherd's bag. He held his sling in his hand. Then he walked towards the Philistine soldier." 
1Samuel17:41 The Philistine slowly walked towards David. The man who was carrying his shield walked in front of him. 
1Samuel17:42 As he came nearer, the Philistine looked carefully at David. He saw that David was no more than a healthy, handsome boy. That made him laugh at David." 
1Samuel17:43 He said to David, ‘Do you think that I am just a dog? Can you knock me down with a little stick?’ Then he prayed to his gods that they would curse David." 
1Samuel17:44 The Philistine said to David, ‘Come nearer to me. I will feed the birds and the wild animals with your dead body.’" 
1Samuel17:45 David said to him, ‘You have come to fight against me with a sword, a knife and a spear. But I come to fight against you with the authority of the Lord Almighty. He is the God who leads Israel's army, and you have insulted him!" 
1Samuel17:46 Today the Lord will make me strong to win against you. I will knock you down and I will cut off your head. Today I will feed the birds and the wild animals with the dead bodies of the Philistine soldiers. Then everyone on the earth will know that there is a God who takes care of Israel. 
1Samuel17:47 The Lord does not need swords or spears to save his people. Everyone here will soon know that! The Lord is the one who fights our battles. He will put you under our power.’ 
1Samuel17:48 The Philistine soldier started to move nearer to David to attack him. David ran forward quickly to fight against him. 
1Samuel17:49 David reached into his bag and he took out a stone. He put the stone into his sling and he threw it. The stone hit the Philistine man's head, above his eyes. It went in very deep. Goliath fell down with his face on the ground." 
1Samuel17:50 In that way, David used a sling and a stone to win against the Philistine soldier. He knocked down the Philistine and he killed him. And David did not even hold a sword in his hand!" 
1Samuel17:51 David then ran and stood over Goliath. He pulled Goliath's sword out and he killed him. Then he used it to cut off Goliath's head. The Philistines saw that their best soldier was now dead. So they ran away. 
1Samuel17:52 When the soldiers from Israel and Judah saw what had happened, they chased after the Philistines. They shouted their war song as they ran. They chased the Philistines all the way to Gath, and then to the gates of Ekron town. The dead bodies of the Philistine soldiers were lying everywhere on the road to Shaaraim, as far as Gath and Ekron." 
1Samuel17:53 When the Israelite soldiers had finished chasing and killing the Philistines, they returned. They went into the Philistines' camp and they took their things for themselves." 
1Samuel17:54 David picked up Goliath's head to take it to Jerusalem. But he put Goliath's weapons in his own tent. 
1Samuel17:55 Saul had watched David when he went out to fight the strong Philistine soldier. Saul said to Abner, the leader of his army, ‘Tell me Abner, who is that young man? Who is his father?’ Abner replied, ‘My king, I cannot tell you a lie. I do not know who he is.’" 
1Samuel17:56 The king said, ‘You must find out the name of that man's father.’" 
1Samuel17:57 When David returned after he had killed Goliath, Abner took him to Saul. David was still holding Goliath's head in his hand." 
1Samuel17:58 Saul asked him, ‘Young man, who is your father?’ David answered, ‘I am the son of your servant Jesse, who lives in Bethlehem.’" 
1Samuel18:1 David finished talking with Saul. After that, Saul's son Jonathan became a very good friend of David. Jonathan loved David as much as he loved his own life." 
1Samuel18:2 Saul kept David with him from that day. He did not let David go home to his father's house. 
1Samuel18:3 Jonathan made a special promise to be David's friend, because he loved David as much as he loved his own life." 
1Samuel18:4 Jonathan took off his coat and he gave it to David. He also gave his armour to David, as well as his sword, his bow and his belt." 
1Samuel18:5 David did whatever Saul asked him to do. And he always did it well. So Saul made David an officer to lead his army. That made the soldiers happy, and it also pleased Saul's officers." 
1Samuel18:6 After David had killed the Philistine, Goliath, he and the soldiers returned to their homes. Women came out from all the towns in Israel to meet King Saul. The women were happy as they sang songs and they danced. They made music with tambourines and lyres." 
1Samuel18:7 They sang this song while they danced: ‘Saul has killed thousands of his enemies. But David has killed tens of thousands of his enemies.’ 
1Samuel18:8 Saul did not like this song. He became very angry. He thought, ‘The women say that David has killed tens of thousands of men. But they say that I have only killed thousands of men. They will soon want David to be their king.’" 
1Samuel18:9 After that, Saul was jealous of David and he watched David carefully." 
1Samuel18:10 The next day God caused an evil spirit to come and control Saul. Saul started to prophesy in his house. David was making music on his harp as he did every day. Saul had a spear in his hand. 
1Samuel18:11 He threw the spear at David. He thought, ‘I will hit David so that it fixes him to the wall.’ He tried to do this twice, but David moved out of the way." 
1Samuel18:12 The Lord was with David. But the Lord had left Saul. So Saul was afraid of David. 
1Samuel18:13 So Saul sent David away from him. He made David the leader of 1,000 soldiers. David led the soldiers into battles, but he always came back again." 
1Samuel18:14 David won all his fights because the Lord was with him. 
1Samuel18:15 Saul saw that David was a great soldier. So he became more afraid of David. 
1Samuel18:16 All the people in Israel and Judah loved David because he led the army in their battles. 
1Samuel18:17 Saul said to David, ‘Here is my oldest daughter Merab. I will let you marry her. But you must be a brave soldier and you must fight battles for the Lord.’ Saul thought to himself, ‘I will not have to kill David myself. The Philistines will do that.’" 
1Samuel18:18 But David said to Saul, ‘I am not an important person. My family and my father's clan are not important either. I do not deserve to marry the king's daughter.’" 
1Samuel18:19 When the time came for Merab to marry David, Saul told her to marry a different man. He gave her to Adriel from Meholah to be his wife." 
1Samuel18:20 Saul had another daughter, Michal, and she loved David. When somebody told Saul about this, he was very happy." 
1Samuel18:21 He thought, ‘I will let David marry her. I will use her as a trap that will catch him. I will give the Philistines a chance to kill him.’ So Saul said to David, ‘Now you have another chance to marry one of my daughters.’" 
1Samuel18:22 Saul told his servants to say secretly to David, ‘The king is pleased with you. His servants all like you. You should now marry the king's daughter.’" 
1Samuel18:23 Saul's servants said this to David. But David replied, ‘It is a great honour for someone to marry the king's daughter. But I am poor. I am not important enough.’" 
1Samuel18:24 Saul's servants told him what David had said. 
1Samuel18:25 Saul said, ‘Tell David this: The king does not want David to pay money to marry the king's daughter. He can pay for her with the foreskins of 100 dead Philistines. Saul wants David to punish his enemies.’ In this way, Saul thought that he would use the Philistines to kill David." 
1Samuel18:26 Saul's servants told David what Saul wanted. It made David happy to think that he could marry the king's daughter. Before the time for the wedding arrived," 
1Samuel18:27 David and his men left their homes. They went and they killed 200 Philistines. David brought all their foreskins to Saul. David gave them to Saul so that he could marry the king's daughter. So Saul agreed to let David marry his daughter Michal. 
1Samuel18:28 Saul realized that the Lord was with David. He knew that his daughter Michal loved David. 
1Samuel18:29 So Saul became even more afraid of David. Saul was David's enemy for the rest of his life. 
1Samuel18:30 The Philistine army continued to march out and attack the Israelites. Every time that they fought, David won more fights than any of Saul's other officers. So David became very famous." 
1Samuel19:1 Saul told his son Jonathan and all his servants to kill David. But Jonathan liked David very much. 
1Samuel19:2 So he told David, ‘My father Saul is trying to kill you. Be careful tomorrow morning. Hide in a secret place and stay there." 
1Samuel19:3 I will go out with my father. I will stand with him in the field where you are hiding. I will talk to him about you. Then I will tell you what he says.’ 
1Samuel19:4 Jonathan spoke to his father Saul. He said good things about David. He said to Saul, ‘The king should not do anything bad against David. David is your servant. He has not done anything that is bad against you. Everything that he does really helps you." 
1Samuel19:5 David was not afraid to die when he fought against the Philistine, Goliath. When David killed Goliath, the Lord helped Israel to win a great battle. When you saw it, you were very happy. So why do you now want to kill David? He is not guilty of anything that is wrong. You have no reason to kill him.’" 
1Samuel19:6 Saul agreed with Jonathan. He made a promise in the Lord 's name that he would not kill David. 
1Samuel19:7 Then Jonathan called to David. He told David everything that the king had said. Jonathan took David back to Saul. So David served King Saul as he had done before. 
1Samuel19:8 The war with the Philistines started again. David went out with his soldiers to fight against them. He attacked them so strongly that the Philistine soldiers ran away. 
1Samuel19:9 Then the Lord caused an evil spirit to control Saul. Saul was sitting in his house. He had a spear in his hand. David was making music with his harp. 
1Samuel19:10 Saul threw his spear at David. He wanted to fix David to the wall. But David moved out of the way and the spear hit the wall. That night, David ran away to escape from Saul." 
1Samuel19:11 Saul sent some of his servants to watch David's house. Saul told them to kill David when he came out in the morning. But David's wife Michal warned him. She said, ‘You must run away tonight. If you do not escape, tomorrow you will die!’" 
1Samuel19:12 So Michal helped David to leave the house through a window. He ran away and he escaped. 
1Samuel19:13 Then Michal took an idol and she put it on the bed. She covered the idol with a blanket and she put a pillow of goat's hair at its head. 
1Samuel19:14 Saul sent some of his men to take hold of David. Michal told them that David was ill. 
1Samuel19:15 Saul then told the men to go back to David's house. He said to them, ‘Bring David to me on his bed. Then I will kill him.’" 
1Samuel19:16 The men returned to David's house. They found the idol on the bed and the pillow of goat's hair at its head. 
1Samuel19:17 Saul said to Michal, ‘You have deceived me! You have helped my enemy to escape!’ Michal said to him, ‘David told me that I must help him to escape. He said that he would kill me if I did not help him.’" 
1Samuel19:18 David ran away and he escaped from Saul. He went to visit Samuel at Ramah. David told Samuel everything that Saul had done to him. Then David and Samuel went to live in Naioth. 
1Samuel19:19 Somebody told Saul that David was living at Naioth in Ramah. 
1Samuel19:20 So Saul sent men to take hold of David. When the men arrived, they saw a group of prophets. Samuel was their leader. They were all prophesying. Then the Spirit of God came on Saul's men. They also started to prophesy." 
1Samuel19:21 When people told Saul about this, he sent more men to Naioth. But they prophesied too. So Saul sent a third group of men. These men also started to prophesy." 
1Samuel19:22 Then Saul himself went to Ramah. He went as far as the large well at Secu. He asked the people, ‘Where are Samuel and David?’ The people replied, ‘They are at Naioth in Ramah.’" 
1Samuel19:23 Saul went to Naioth. The Spirit of God came on him also. He started to prophesy as he walked towards Naioth. 
1Samuel19:24 When he met Samuel, he took off his clothes and he continued to prophesy. He lay on the ground with no clothes all that day and all that night. So people still say, ‘Has Saul really become one of the prophets?’" 
1Samuel20:1 Then David ran away from Naioth at Ramah. He went to Jonathan and he asked him, ‘What bad things have I done? What have I done to hurt your father? Why is he trying to kill me?’" 
1Samuel20:2 Jonathan replied, ‘No. You will not die. My father tells me everything that he does, even the little things. So it is not true that he is trying to kill you. He would not hide this from me.’" 
1Samuel20:3 But David answered, ‘Your father knows that you like me very much. He has decided that he will not tell you. He does not want to make you upset. I promise that my words are true, as truly as the Lord lives and you live. I know that I am very near to death.’" 
1Samuel20:4 Jonathan said to David, ‘I will do anything that you want me to do for you.’" 
1Samuel20:5 David said to Jonathan, ‘Tomorrow we have a special meal because of the new moon. I should go and eat this meal with the king. Instead, let me go and hide in the field. I will stay there until the third evening." 
1Samuel20:6 Your father may see that I am not at the meal. If he does, say to him, “David asked me to let him go to his home in Bethlehem. His family offer a sacrifice there at this time every year.”" 
1Samuel20:7 Your father may say, “That is good.” If he says that, I will know that I am safe. But if he becomes very angry, we will know that he has decided to hurt me." 
1Samuel20:8 Jonathan, please show that you love me. The Lord knows about the promise that you made to be my friend. If I am guilty of a sin, please kill me yourself. Do not let your father kill me.’" 
1Samuel20:9 Jonathan said, ‘No, that will never happen! If I ever find out that my father wants to kill you, I will surely tell you.’" 
1Samuel20:10 David asked Jonathan, ‘If your father answers you in an angry way, who will tell me?’" 
1Samuel20:11 Jonathan said, ‘Come with me into the field.’ So they went there together." 
1Samuel20:12 Then Jonathan said to David, ‘I make this promise to you, and the Lord, Israel's God, knows that it is true. Tomorrow or the next day I will find out what my father is thinking about you. If he is feeling friendly to you, I will send someone to tell you." 
1Samuel20:13 But if my father wants to hurt you, I will tell you clearly. I ask the Lord to punish me, if I do not tell you. I will help you to escape and be safe. I pray that the Lord will bless you, as he blessed my father." 
1Samuel20:14 While I am still alive, please be kind to me. Continue to love me, as the Lord loves his people. And if I die," 
1Samuel20:15 continue to be kind to my family. Even when the Lord removes every one of your enemies from the earth, do not forget about my family.’" 
1Samuel20:16 So Jonathan made an agreement with David's family. He said, ‘I am asking the Lord to destroy all David's enemies.’" 
1Samuel20:17 Jonathan asked David to promise again that they would be friends. That was because Jonathan loved David as much as he loved his own life. 
1Samuel20:18 Then Jonathan said to David, ‘Tomorrow we will have the special meal because of the new moon. Nobody will be sitting in your seat, so people will know that you are not there." 
1Samuel20:19 The day after tomorrow, go back to the place where you hid the other time. Wait beside the rock called Ezel." 
1Samuel20:20 I will shoot three arrows towards the rock to see where they go. 
1Samuel20:21 Then I will send a boy to find the arrows. If you are not in danger I will say to the boy, “The arrows are on this side of you. Come and bring them here.” That will mean that you are safe. You can then come out from the place where you are hiding. As surely as the Lord lives, I promise that you will not be in trouble." 
1Samuel20:22 But if I say to the boy, “Look, the arrows are beyond you,” you must run away. It will mean that the Lord has sent you away." 
1Samuel20:23 But never forget the promise that we have made to each other. The Lord will make sure that we are faithful to each other.’ 
1Samuel20:24 So David hid in the field. At the time of the new moon, the king sat down to eat the special meal." 
1Samuel20:25 He sat beside the wall in his usual place. Jonathan sat with his face towards him. Abner sat beside the king. David's seat was empty. 
1Samuel20:26 Saul did not say anything about it that day. He thought, ‘Perhaps something has happened to David that has made him unclean. I am sure that is why he is not here.’" 
1Samuel20:27 The next day after the new moon, David's seat was still empty at the meal. So Saul said to his son Jonathan, ‘Why has Jesse's son not come to the meal? He did not come yesterday or today.’" 
1Samuel20:28 Jonathan answered, ‘David asked me very strongly to let him go to Bethlehem." 
1Samuel20:29 He said, “Please let me go. My family is offering a sacrifice to God in the town. My brother told me that I must be there. If you agree as my friend, let me go to visit my brothers.” That is why David has not come to eat this meal with the king.’" 
1Samuel20:30 Saul became very angry with Jonathan. He said, ‘You stupid man! I see that you have turned against me! You have become a friend of that son of Jesse. You have brought shame on yourself. Your mother should be ashamed that she gave birth to you!" 
1Samuel20:31 You will never rule as king while that son of Jesse is still alive. Send men to go and bring him to me now. He must die!’ 
1Samuel20:32 Jonathan said to his father, King Saul, ‘Why must David die? What wrong thing has he done?’" 
1Samuel20:33 Then Saul threw his spear at Jonathan and tried to kill him. So Jonathan knew that his father had decided to kill David. 
1Samuel20:34 Jonathan was very angry. He got up from the table. He did not eat anything on that second day of the special meal. He was very upset because his father had insulted David. 
1Samuel20:35 The next morning, Jonathan went out to the field to meet David. He took a young boy with him." 
1Samuel20:36 He said to the boy, ‘I will shoot some arrows. You must run and find them.’ While the boy was running, Jonathan shot an arrow beyond him." 
1Samuel20:37 The boy ran to the place where the arrow had reached. Jonathan shouted to him, ‘I think that the arrow is beyond you.’" 
1Samuel20:38 Then he shouted, ‘Hurry now! Go quickly. Do not wait.’ The boy picked up the arrow and he brought it back to Jonathan." 
1Samuel20:39 (The boy did not understand what this meant. Only Jonathan and David knew.) 
1Samuel20:40 Then Jonathan gave his bow and arrows back to the boy. He said to the boy, ‘Go now and take these things back to the town.’" 
1Samuel20:41 When the boy had left, David came out from beside the rock. He went down on his knees in front of Jonathan. He bent down on the ground three times. Then David and Jonathan kissed each other and they wept. David wept even more than Jonathan did." 
1Samuel20:42 Jonathan said to David, ‘Go now and God will keep you safe. We have promised each other in the Lord 's name that we will always be friends. The Lord will watch us to make sure that we always keep this promise. He will watch our descendants too, for ever.’ Then David left. Jonathan returned to the town." 
1Samuel21:1 David went to visit Ahimelech the priest. He lived in the town of Nob. Ahimelech shook with fear when he saw David. He asked David, ‘Why are you alone? Why is nobody with you?’" 
1Samuel21:2 David answered, ‘The king has asked me to do something special. He said to me, “Do not tell anyone where I have sent you. Do not say what I have told you to do.” So I have sent my soldiers to wait for me at a certain place." 
1Samuel21:3 Do you have anything to eat here? Give me five loaves of bread or anything else that you have.’ 
1Samuel21:4 The priest answered David, ‘I do not have any ordinary bread that I can give to you. There is only the special holy bread. You can take it for your men to eat only if they have not had sex with women.’" 
1Samuel21:5 David replied, ‘We have not been near women since we left our homes. The young men always keep themselves clean, even on ordinary journeys. So for today's important journey, they will certainly be clean.’" 
1Samuel21:6 So the priest gave the holy bread to David because he did not have any other bread. This was the bread which had been on the table in the Lord 's tent. The priest would take it from there each day and he would put hot, fresh bread in its place." 
1Samuel21:7 One of Saul's servants was there that day. His name was Doeg. He came from Edom. He was the leader of Saul's shepherds. He was staying in Nob to make offerings to the Lord. 
1Samuel21:8 David asked the priest, Ahimelech, ‘Is there any sword or spear here that I could take? The king sent me quickly to do an important job. So I left home without my sword or any other weapon.’" 
1Samuel21:9 Ahimelech answered, ‘The sword of Goliath the Philistine is here. After you killed him in Elah Valley, we kept the sword here. We covered it with a cloth and we put it behind the ephod. If you want it, you can take it. We do not have any other weapon except that one.’ David said, ‘Give it to me. There is no sword as good as that one.’" 
1Samuel21:10 So on that day, David escaped from Saul. He went to Gath and he visited King Achish there." 
1Samuel21:11 The servants of King Achish said to him, ‘This man is David, the king of his country! The people sing this song about him when they dance: “Saul has killed thousands of his enemies. But David has killed tens of thousands of his enemies.” ’" 
1Samuel21:12 David thought carefully about what King Achish's servants were saying. It caused him to be very afraid of Achish, king of Gath." 
1Samuel21:13 So when David was with them, he pretended to be crazy. He made marks with his fingers on the doors of the city's gate. He let water run out of his mouth and go down his beard." 
1Samuel21:14 King Achish said to his servants, ‘Look at this man! He is completely crazy! Why did you bring him to me?" 
1Samuel21:15 I have enough fools around me already. I do not need to see this crazy man as well. Keep him away from my house.’ 
1Samuel22:1 Then David left Gath and he went to a cave near Adullam. His brothers and his father's family discovered where he had gone. So they all went to visit him. 
1Samuel22:2 Everybody who had trouble went to stay with David. People who had debts and those who were angry also went to him. About 400 men went to be with David and he became their leader. 
1Samuel22:3 David then went to Mizpah, a town in the land of Moab. David said to the king of Moab, ‘Please let my father and my mother stay with you for a short time. I need to learn what God will do to help me.’" 
1Samuel22:4 So David left his parents and they stayed with the king of Moab. They stayed there all the time that David was hiding near there. 
1Samuel22:5 The prophet Gad said to David, ‘Do not stay and hide here. Go to the land of Judah.’ So David left his safe place and he went to Hereth forest." 
1Samuel22:6 One day, Saul was on the hill near Gibeah. He was sitting under a tamarisk tree. He was holding a spear. All his officers stood round him. Then someone told Saul that they knew where David and his men were hiding." 
1Samuel22:7 Saul said to his officers, ‘Listen to me, you men of Benjamin's tribe. Do you really think that this son of Jesse will give fields and vineyards to all of you? Will he make you all officers and leaders in his army? No!" 
1Samuel22:8 So why are you trying to deceive me? None of you told me when my own son promised to be a friend of this son of Jesse. You do not feel sorry for me. Now my son is helping one of my own servants to attack me! Yes, he is waiting for his chance to kill me!’" 
1Samuel22:9 Doeg, the man from Edom, was standing there with Saul's officers. He said, ‘I saw that son of Jesse when he came to Nob town. He visited Ahitub's son, Ahimelech." 
1Samuel22:10 Ahimelech asked the Lord what David should do. Then he gave some food and the sword of Goliath the Philistine to David.’ 
1Samuel22:11 Then King Saul told his men to bring Ahitub's son, Ahimelech, the priest. They also brought all his father's family who were priests at Nob. They all came to the king." 
1Samuel22:12 Saul said to Ahimelech, ‘Listen to me, son of Ahitub.’ Ahimelech answered, ‘I am listening, my king.’" 
1Samuel22:13 Saul said to him, ‘You and this son of Jesse have been trying to kill me! You gave him bread and a sword. You prayed to God on his behalf. Now, at this moment, he is waiting for his chance to kill me!’" 
1Samuel22:14 Ahimelech answered the king, ‘David is the most faithful servant that you have. He is your daughter's husband. He is the captain of the soldiers who keep you safe. Everyone in your house respects him." 
1Samuel22:15 I have often prayed to God on David's behalf. This was not the first time. King Saul, do not say that my family or I have done anything wrong. I do not know anything about what is happening.’" 
1Samuel22:16 But King Saul said, ‘Ahimelech, you must die, together with all your family.’" 
1Samuel22:17 Then the king said to the guards who were near him, ‘Now kill the Lord 's priests! They have been helping David. They knew that he was running away from me. But they did not tell me.’ But the king's officers refused to hurt the Lord 's priests." 
1Samuel22:18 So the king said to Doeg, ‘You must kill the priests.’ So Doeg, the man from Edom, killed the priests that same day. He killed 85 priests who wore linen ephods." 
1Samuel22:19 He also killed all the people in Nob, which was the town where the priests lived. He killed the men and women, children and babies. He also killed the cows, donkeys and sheep." 
1Samuel22:20 But one man called Abiathar escaped. He was one of Ahimelech's sons. Abiathar ran away to see David. 
1Samuel22:21 Abiathar told David that Saul had killed the Lord 's priests. 
1Samuel22:22 David said to him, ‘When I went to see your father at Nob, Doeg was there too. I knew that he would tell Saul about me. So I have caused the death of everybody in your father's family." 
1Samuel22:23 Please stay here with me. Do not be afraid. Saul wants to kill you and he wants to kill me too. You will be safe with me.’ 
1Samuel23:1 The Philistines were attacking the town of Keilah. They were taking away the grain that the people had brought from their fields. Someone told David about this. 
1Samuel23:2 So David asked the Lord, ‘Should I go and attack those Philistines?’ The Lord answered him, ‘Go and attack the Philistines. Save Keilah town.’" 
1Samuel23:3 But David's men said to him, ‘We are afraid when we are here in Judah. If we go to attack the Philistine army at Keilah, we will be in even more danger.’" 
1Samuel23:4 Then David asked the Lord again. The Lord answered again, ‘Go to Keilah. I will put the Philistines under your power.’" 
1Samuel23:5 So David and his men went to Keilah. They fought against the Philistines and they killed many of them. Also, they took away their animals. In that way, David saved the people who lived in Keilah." 
1Samuel23:6 When Ahimelech's son Abiathar had run away, he had come to David at Keilah. And he had brought the priests' ephod with him." 
1Samuel23:7 Someone told Saul that David was now at Keilah. Saul said, ‘God has now put David under my power. David has gone into a town that has high walls and strong gates. He will not be able to leave that place.’" 
1Samuel23:8 So Saul called his army to join him. They prepared to go to Keilah and to attack David and his men. 
1Samuel23:9 Somebody told David that Saul was preparing to attack him. David said to Abiathar the priest, ‘Bring the ephod here.’" 
1Samuel23:10 David prayed, ‘ Lord, Israel's God. I am your servant. I have heard news that Saul is preparing to attack Keilah. He wants to destroy this town because I am here." 
1Samuel23:11 Will the leaders in Keilah give me to Saul? Will Saul really come here, as I have heard that he will? Lord, Israel's God, please tell me what will happen.’ The Lord said, ‘Saul will come.’" 
1Samuel23:12 David asked the Lord again, ‘Will the leaders in Keilah give me and my men to Saul?’ The Lord said, ‘They will do that.’" 
1Samuel23:13 So David and his 600 men left Keilah. They moved around to stay in different places. People told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah. So Saul decided that he would not go there. 
1Samuel23:14 David stayed in places where he would be safe. They were in the wilderness, and in the hill country of Ziph. Saul always tried to find David. But God did not let Saul catch David." 
1Samuel23:15 David was at Horesh in the Ziph Desert. He heard news that Saul was coming there to kill him. 
1Samuel23:16 Saul's son, Jonathan, went to visit David at Horesh. He told David to be brave, because God would keep him safe." 
1Samuel23:17 Jonathan said to David, ‘Do not be afraid. My father will never be able to hurt you. You will be the next king to rule over Israel. I will be your most important officer. My father Saul also knows that is true.’" 
1Samuel23:18 Jonathan and David promised again in the Lord 's name that they would be faithful friends of one another. Then Jonathan went to his home. David stayed at Horesh. 
1Samuel23:19 Some people from Ziph went to visit Saul at Gibeah. They said to Saul, ‘David is hiding among our people. He is on Hakilah hill, south of Jeshimon. He is hiding in the Horesh hills." 
1Samuel23:20 Now, King Saul, we know that you want to catch David. So you can come to our land at any time. We will help you to catch him.’" 
1Samuel23:21 Saul replied, ‘I ask the Lord to bless you, because you have been kind to me." 
1Samuel23:22 Do a bit more to help me now. Make sure that you know where he is. Find the people who have seen him there. I have heard that David is very clever. 
1Samuel23:23 Find all the places where he hides. When you know all about him, come back and tell me. Then I will come with you. If he is still in that region, I will surely find him. I will look through all the land of Judah and I will catch him.’" 
1Samuel23:24 So the people returned to Ziph before Saul himself went there. David and his men were in the Maon Desert. This was south of Jeshimon, in the Jordan Valley." 
1Samuel23:25 Saul and his men started to look for David. But David heard about this. So he and his men went to hide at a great rock in the Maon Desert. When Saul heard about this, he and his men went into the Maon Desert to find David." 
1Samuel23:26 Saul and his men were going along one side of the mountain. David and his men were on the other side of the mountain. They were moving quickly to escape from Saul. Saul and his men were getting very near to David and his men. They would soon catch them. 
1Samuel23:27 But then a man arrived with a message for Saul. He said to Saul, ‘Come quickly. The Philistines are attacking our land!’" 
1Samuel23:28 So Saul stopped chasing after David. Instead, he went to fight against the Philistines. So people call that place ‘The rock where they escaped’." 
1Samuel23:29 David left that place. He went to hide in the safe places at En Gedi. 
1Samuel24:1 When Saul had finished fighting against the Philistines, he returned to his home. Someone told him that David was in the desert at En Gedi." 
1Samuel24:2 So Saul chose 3,000 of the best soldiers in Israel. They went to look for David and his men near Wild Goat Rocks." 
1Samuel24:3 Saul came to the place near the road where the shepherds keep their sheep. There was a cave near to this place. Saul went in there to use it as a toilet. David and his men were hiding at the back of the same cave. 
1Samuel24:4 David's men said to him, ‘This is the day that the Lord told you about! The Lord said to you, “I will give your enemy to you. Then you can decide what is the right thing to do to him.” ’ So David stood up very quietly. He went and he cut off a small piece of cloth from Saul's coat. Saul did not know what had happened." 
1Samuel24:5 After that, David thought that he had done something wrong. He felt sorry that he had cut a piece of cloth from Saul's coat." 
1Samuel24:6 David said to his men, ‘May the Lord not allow me to do anything wrong to my master. The Lord has chosen him to be Israel's king. I must never do anything to hurt him. He is the king that the Lord has chosen.’" 
1Samuel24:7 David spoke like this to stop his men from attacking Saul. Then Saul left the cave and he started to travel along the road. 
1Samuel24:8 After that, David went out of the cave. He shouted to Saul, ‘My master and my king!’ Saul looked behind him. David went down on his knees with his face on the ground to respect the king." 
1Samuel24:9 David said to Saul, ‘You should not listen to the people who say, “David wants to hurt you.”" 
1Samuel24:10 You can see that the Lord has kept you safe today when I had a chance to hurt you in the cave. Some of my men wanted me to kill you, but I did not agree. I said, “I will not hurt my master, because the Lord has chosen him to be king.”" 
1Samuel24:11 My father, look at what I have in my hand! It is a small piece of your coat. I cut this off the corner of your coat, but I did not kill you. So you must know that I do not want to do anything bad against you. I have not turned against you. I am not guilty of anything, but you are chasing after me so that you can kill me." 
1Samuel24:12 The Lord is the judge who will decide which of us is guilty. I pray that he will punish you for what you are doing to me. But I myself will never do anything to hurt you. 
1Samuel24:13 You know the proverb, “ Evil people do evil things.” But I will never try to hurt you." 
1Samuel24:14 You are Israel's king. So why are you chasing after someone like me? I am less important than a dead dog or a little fly! 
1Samuel24:15 The Lord will be the judge to decide who is right. I pray that he will see that I am not guilty. I pray that he will save me from your power.’ 
1Samuel24:16 When David stopped speaking, Saul said, ‘Is that really you, David my son?’ Then Saul started to weep loudly." 
1Samuel24:17 He said to David, ‘You are a better man than I am. You have been kind to me even when I have tried to hurt you." 
1Samuel24:18 You have shown me today how kind you have been to me. The Lord gave you a chance to hurt me, but you did not kill me." 
1Samuel24:19 If someone catches his enemy, he does not let him escape. But you have not tried to hurt me today. So I ask that the Lord will bless you in return." 
1Samuel24:20 I know that you will be the king of Israel one day. The kingdom will be strong when you rule. 
1Samuel24:21 So promise me in the Lord 's name that you will not kill any of my descendants. Please make sure that people do not forget my family's name.’ 
1Samuel24:22 So David made a strong promise to Saul. Then Saul returned to his home. But David and his men went back to the place where they had been hiding. 
1Samuel25:1 Then Samuel died. All the Israelites met together and they were very sad. Then they buried Samuel at his home in Ramah. David went down to the Paran desert. 
1Samuel25:2 There was a very rich man who lived at Maon. His name was Nabal. He was a descendant of Caleb. His wife's name was Abigail. She was wise and beautiful. But Nabal was a cruel man who did evil things. Nabal had some land near Carmel. He had 3,000 sheep and 1,000 goats. He was with his men in Carmel as they cut the wool from his sheep." 
1Samuel25:3  
1Samuel25:4 While David was in the desert, he heard that Nabal was cutting the wool from his sheep." 
1Samuel25:5 So David sent ten young men to meet with Nabal. He said to them, ‘Go to Carmel and find Nabal. Tell him that David says “hello”." 
1Samuel25:6 Then give him this message: “We hope that you and your family are all well. We hope that everything you have is doing well. 
1Samuel25:7 David has heard that you are now cutting the wool from your sheep. When your shepherds were with us near Carmel, we did not hurt them. We did not take anything from them." 
1Samuel25:8 Your servants will tell you that, if you ask them. Now we have come to you at this special holiday time. So please be kind to the young men that David has sent to see you. They are your servants as well as his servants. Please give any extra food that you have to these young men and to your good friend David.” ’" 
1Samuel25:9 David's men went to Carmel. They gave David's message to Nabal. They waited for Nabal to reply. 
1Samuel25:10 Nabal answered David's young men, ‘Who is this David? Do I know this son of Jesse? Many servants run away from their masters these days." 
1Samuel25:11 I have food and drink for the men who are cutting the wool from my sheep. I have cooked meat for them to eat. But I will not give anything to you. You might have come from anywhere!’ 
1Samuel25:12 David's young men left Nabal. They returned to David and they told him everything that Nabal had said. 
1Samuel25:13 David said to his men, ‘Tie your swords onto your belts.’ So they all did that. David put his sword on his belt too. About 400 men went with David. About 200 men stayed at their camp." 
1Samuel25:14 One of Nabal's servants spoke to Nabal's wife, Abigail. He said to her, ‘David sent some of his men from the desert to say “hello” to our master. But our master insulted them." 
1Samuel25:15 David's men have been very kind to us. When we were with them in the fields, they did not hurt us. They did not take anything from us the whole time that we were there." 
1Samuel25:16 They kept us safe while we took care of Nabal's sheep. They kept us safe all the time, during the day and at night." 
1Samuel25:17 So please think carefully about this. Decide what you can do. If you do nothing, there will be great trouble for our master and all his family and servants. He is such a wicked man that he will not listen to anyone.’" 
1Samuel25:18 Abigail quickly got some food. She got 200 loaves of bread, two leather bags of wine, five sheep that she had cooked, and five jars of grain that she had cooked. She also got 100 blocks of raisins and 200 blocks of dried figs. She put all these things on some donkeys." 
1Samuel25:19 She said to her servants, ‘You go first and I will follow you.’ But she did not tell her husband Nabal what she was doing." 
1Samuel25:20 Abigail rode her donkey along the path beside a mountain. Then she saw David and his men as they were coming towards her. So they all met each other. 
1Samuel25:21 David had just said to his men, ‘I kept Nabal's people and all his things safe in the desert. We did not take anything from him. But that has not helped us. I was kind to him, but he has done an evil thing to me in return." 
1Samuel25:22 I pray that God will punish me if I do not kill all the men in Nabal's family by tomorrow morning.’ 
1Samuel25:23 When Abigail saw David, she quickly got off her donkey. She bent her body down low on the ground to respect David." 
1Samuel25:24 She lay down at his feet. She said to David, ‘My master, I am the one who is guilty. I am your servant. Please let me say something and please listen to me." 
1Samuel25:25 Please sir, do not think about that wicked man Nabal. His name means “fool” and he really is a fool. But as for me, I did not see the young men that you sent." 
1Samuel25:26 I know this as surely as the Lord lives and as surely as you live: The Lord has stopped you from killing anyone today. You could have done that, but he has not let you do it. I pray that God will punish all your enemies in the same way that he will punish Nabal." 
1Samuel25:27 My master, please accept these gifts that I have brought for you and for your men." 
1Samuel25:28 Please sir, forgive me for anything that I have done wrong against you. I know that the Lord will always choose someone from your family to be Israel's king. The Lord will do that because you fight battles on his behalf. I pray that you will not do any evil thing in your whole life." 
1Samuel25:29 People may chase after you and try to kill you. But the Lord your God will always keep you safe. He will throw your enemies away like someone who throws a stone from his sling. 
1Samuel25:30 The Lord will surely do for you all the good things that he has promised to do. He will make you the ruler of the Israelites. 
1Samuel25:31 When that happens, you will not feel sorry for something bad that you might have done today. You could have killed people today for no good reason. You could have tried to punish these people yourself. So please remember me when the Lord has helped you to rule as king.’" 
1Samuel25:32 David said to Abigail, ‘I praise the Lord, Israel's God. He has sent you to meet me here today." 
1Samuel25:33 I thank you for your wisdom. May the Lord bless you because of what you have done to help me. You have stopped me from killing people today. I would have punished these people myself. 
1Samuel25:34 But the Lord has not let me hurt you. As surely as the Lord, Israel's God, lives, I would have killed all the men in Nabal's family before dawn. But you came quickly to meet me.’" 
1Samuel25:35 David accepted Abigail's gifts that she had brought with her. He said to her, ‘Go back to your home and do not be afraid. I have listened to what you have said. I will do what you have asked for.’" 
1Samuel25:36 Abigail returned to her husband, Nabal. He was eating a big feast with people in his house. It was as good as a king's feast. Nabal was happy and he was drunk. So Abigail did not tell him anything until the next morning." 
1Samuel25:37 The next morning, Nabal was no longer drunk. So Abigail told him about everything that she had done. Nabal's heart failed. His body became like a stone." 
1Samuel25:38 About ten days after that, the Lord caused Nabal to die." 
1Samuel25:39 David heard the news that Nabal had died. He said, ‘I praise the Lord. He has shown that I was right. Nabal insulted me but the Lord has punished him for that. The Lord stopped me from doing an evil thing. Now he has punished Nabal for the evil thing that he did.’ Then David sent a message to Abigail to ask her to marry him." 
1Samuel25:40 David's servants went to Carmel. They said to Abigail, ‘David has sent us to you. We must take you back with us to become his wife.’" 
1Samuel25:41 Abigail bent her body down low so that her face touched the ground. She said, ‘I am happy to be David's servant. I am ready to wash the feet of his servants.’" 
1Samuel25:42 Abigail quickly prepared her donkey to go with David's men. She took with her five young girls to be her servants. Abigail went to David and she became his wife. 
1Samuel25:43 David had already married Ahinoam from Jezreel town. So these two women became his wives. 
1Samuel25:44 Saul's daughter Michal had been David's wife. But Saul had then given her to Palti as his wife. Palti was the son of Laish, who came from Gallim town." 
1Samuel26:1 Some men from Ziph went to visit Saul at Gibeah. They said to him, ‘David is hiding on Hakilah hill, which is across the valley from Jeshimon.’" 
1Samuel26:2 So Saul went to the Ziph Desert to look for David. He took 3,000 strong Israelite soldiers with him." 
1Samuel26:3 Saul and his men arrived at Hakilah hill, near Jeshimon, where David was hiding. They put up their tents beside the road. David heard the news that Saul had followed him into the desert." 
1Samuel26:4 So David sent some men to see if that was true. They discovered that Saul had arrived at Hakilah. 
1Samuel26:5 One night, David went secretly to Saul's camp. Saul was asleep in the middle of the tents. The leader of his army, Ner's son Abner, was with him. He was asleep too. The army was all around them. David could see all this." 
1Samuel26:6 David spoke to two of his men. One of them was Ahimelech, a Hittite man. The other man was Abishai, who was Joab's brother (Zeruiah was their mother). David asked them, ‘Which one of you will go down into Saul's camp with me?’ Abishai said, ‘I will come with you.’" 
1Samuel26:7 So David and Abishai went among Saul's army that night. They saw that Saul was asleep in the middle of the camp. He had pushed his spear into the ground near his head. Abner and the army were asleep around Saul. 
1Samuel26:8 Abishai said to David, ‘Tonight God has given your enemy into your power. I will push Saul's spear through his body and fix him to the ground. I will only have to do it once to kill him. I will not need to do it again.’" 
1Samuel26:9 But David said to Abishai, ‘Do not kill Saul. He is the man that the Lord has chosen to be Israel's king. Anyone who attacks him will be guilty of a sin." 
1Samuel26:10 I know that the Lord himself will kill Saul one day. Saul may die when he has reached the age to die. Or someone may kill him in a battle. He will certainly come to his end. 
1Samuel26:11 But I ask the Lord to stop me from hurting him, because he is the Lord 's chosen king. Take the spear and the jar of water that are near Saul's head. We must leave here now!’" 
1Samuel26:12 So David took the spear and the jar of water from beside Saul's head. Then they left. Nobody saw them. Nobody knew that they had been in the camp. Nobody woke up. Saul's soldiers continued to sleep because the Lord caused it to happen. 
1Samuel26:13 David and Abishai then went across the valley to the other side of the hill. David stood on the top of the hill. He was far away from Saul's soldiers. 
1Samuel26:14 David shouted to Saul's army and to Ner's son, Abner, ‘Abner, wake up! Answer me!’ Abner replied, ‘Who is shouting to wake up the king? Who are you?’" 
1Samuel26:15 David said to Abner, ‘Are you really the bravest soldier in Israel? You should have kept the king safe. Someone came into your camp to kill your master." 
1Samuel26:16 You have not done your job well. You and your men have not protected your master, who is the Lord 's chosen king. As surely as the Lord lives, you all deserve to die. The king's spear and his water pot were beside his head. Look where they are now!’" 
1Samuel26:17 Saul recognized David's voice. He said, ‘Is that you David, my son?’ David answered, ‘Yes, my master and my king, it is my voice that you can hear.’" 
1Samuel26:18 David also said, ‘Why are you chasing after me, my master? What have I done that is wrong? Why am I guilty?" 
1Samuel26:19 My master and my king, please listen to me. Has the Lord made you angry with me? If that is true, a sacrifice to him may change his thoughts. But if men have made you turn against me, I ask the Lord to curse them. They have chased me out of the land that belongs to the Lord 's people. They have said to me, “Go away and worship other gods!”" 
1Samuel26:20 Do not let me die a long way away from the Lord 's home. You are the king of Israel and I am like a small fly. But you are trying to catch me! You are like someone who is looking for a wild bird in the mountains!’ 
1Samuel26:21 Then Saul said, ‘I have done a bad thing. Return home, David, my son. You chose not to kill me today, because you knew the value of my life. So I will not hurt you again. I have done foolish things. I have made a big mistake.’" 
1Samuel26:22 David said, ‘Here is your own spear. Send one of your young men here to get it for you." 
1Samuel26:23 The Lord wants everyone to do what is right and true. He blesses people who live like that. The Lord put you under my power today. But I would not agree to hurt the Lord 's chosen king. 
1Samuel26:24 Today I knew that your life is valuable. In the same way, I pray that the Lord will know that my life is valuable. I pray that he will keep me safe through all danger.’" 
1Samuel26:25 Then Saul said to David, ‘I pray that the Lord will bless you, my son. I know that you will do great things.’ So David left there and Saul returned to his home." 
1Samuel27:1 Then David thought, ‘I am sure that Saul will catch me one day. Then he will kill me. I must go to the country of the Philistines so that I will be safe from Saul. That is the best thing that I can do. When I am no longer in the land of Israel, Saul will stop looking for me here. I will escape from him.’" 
1Samuel27:2 So David and his 600 men went across the border of Israel to Gath town. Maoch's son Achish was the king there. 
1Samuel27:3 David and his men lived in Gath with King Achish. They had their families with them. David's two wives were with him: Ahinoam from Jezreel, and Abigail from Carmel. Abigail was Nabal's widow." 
1Samuel27:4 Saul heard the news that David had run away to Gath. So he stopped looking for David. 
1Samuel27:5 One day David said to Achish, ‘I hope that you are pleased with me. If you are, please choose a place for me to live in one of the small towns. I do not need to live in the same big city as the king.’" 
1Samuel27:6 So on that day King Achish gave Ziklag town to David. Since then, Ziklag has always belonged to Judah's king." 
1Samuel27:7 David lived in the country of the Philistines for one year and four months. 
1Samuel27:8 During that time David and his men attacked the Geshurites, the Girzites and the Amalekites. These tribes had lived in that place for a very long time. Their land went as far as Shur and the border of Egypt." 
1Samuel27:9 Whenever David's men attacked them, they killed all the men and women. But they took all their sheep, cows, donkeys and camels, as well as their clothes. Then they would return to see King Achish." 
1Samuel27:10 Achish would ask David, ‘Which place did you go and attack today?’ Sometimes David would say, ‘We robbed the people of a town in Judah's desert.’ Or David might say, ‘We attacked a town in the desert where the people of Jerahmeel's clan live.’ Or he might say, ‘We attacked a town in the desert where the Kenites live.’" 
1Samuel27:11 David killed all the people in the places that he attacked. He never took anyone back to Gath. He thought, ‘If any of the people are still alive, they might go to Gath and tell people what we have done.’ That is what David did for the whole time that he lived among the Philistines." 
1Samuel27:12 So King Achish trusted David. He thought, ‘The Israelites must now hate David very much. So David will have to be my servant for ever.’" 
1Samuel28:1 At that time, the Philistine army joined together to fight against the Israelites. King Achish said to David, ‘I hope you know that you and your men must fight with me in the battle.’" 
1Samuel28:2 David said, ‘Yes, sir. Then you will see how well I can fight!’ Achish replied, ‘Good. Then you will always be my guard to keep me safe.’" 
1Samuel28:3 Samuel had died before this. All the Israelites had been very sad at his death. They had buried him in Ramah, the town where he had lived. When Samuel had been alive, Saul had removed magicians from Israel. Saul removed everyone who used magic to speak to the spirits of dead people." 
1Samuel28:4 The Philistine army came together and they put up their tents at Shunem. Saul called together the whole Israelite army. They put up their tents at Gilboa. 
1Samuel28:5 Saul saw the camp of the Philistine army. He became very afraid. 
1Samuel28:6 Saul asked the Lord what he should do. But the Lord did not answer him in any way. He did not give Saul a dream. He did not use the Urim and Thummim. He did not give a message to the prophets. 
1Samuel28:7 So Saul said to his servants, ‘Look for a woman who can talk to dead people. Then I will go and ask her what will happen.’ His servants replied, ‘There is a woman at Endor who can do that.’" 
1Samuel28:8 Saul changed his clothes so that no one would recognize him. At night, Saul and two of his men went to see the woman. Saul said to her, ‘Use your magic to bring up the spirit of a certain dead man. I will tell you his name.’" 
1Samuel28:9 But the woman said to him, ‘You know what King Saul has done. He has removed all the magicians from Israel. Are you using a trap to catch me? Do you want me to die?’" 
1Samuel28:10 Then Saul promised the woman very strongly. He said, ‘As surely as the Lord lives, nobody will punish you if you do this.’" 
1Samuel28:11 The woman said, ‘Who is it that you want me to bring for you?’ Saul replied, ‘Bring Samuel to me.’" 
1Samuel28:12 The woman screamed when she saw Samuel. She said to Saul, ‘You have deceived me! You are King Saul!’" 
1Samuel28:13 The king said to her, ‘Do not be afraid. Tell me what you can see.’ She replied, ‘I can see a spirit that is coming up from the ground.’" 
1Samuel28:14 Saul asked, ‘What does he look like?’ She said, ‘I see an old man who is wearing a long coat.’ Saul realized that this was Samuel. He bent down low on his knees with his face towards the ground." 
1Samuel28:15 Samuel said to Saul, ‘Why have you caused this trouble for me? Why have you brought me back?’ Saul said, ‘I have a lot of trouble. The Philistines are fighting against me. God has turned away from me. He will not use the prophets or give me dreams to answer my questions. So I have called you to come here. Please tell me what I should do.’" 
1Samuel28:16 Samuel said, ‘The Lord has turned away from you and he has become your enemy. So do not ask me what you should do." 
1Samuel28:17 I told you what the Lord would do. Now he has done it! The Lord has taken the kingdom away from you. He has given it to another Israelite, David." 
1Samuel28:18 The Lord has punished you today because you did not obey him. The Lord was very angry with the Amalekites. He told you to destroy them all. But you refused to do that. 
1Samuel28:19 The Lord will put you and the Israelites under the power of the Philistines. Tomorrow you and your sons will be with me in the place for dead people. The Lord will also let the Philistines win against Israel's army.’ 
1Samuel28:20 Saul immediately fell down on the ground and he lay there. He was very afraid because of what Samuel had said. Saul was also very weak because he had eaten nothing all that day and night. 
1Samuel28:21 Then the woman came to Saul. She saw that he was very afraid. She said, ‘I have obeyed you, sir. I did what you asked me to do. I might have died because I did that." 
1Samuel28:22 Please listen to me now. I will give you some food to eat. Then you will be strong enough to travel back.’ 
1Samuel28:23 Saul refused and he said, ‘I will not eat.’ But the woman and Saul's servants continued to say that he must eat some food. So Saul agreed. He got up from the ground and he sat down on a bed." 
1Samuel28:24 The woman had a fat calf at her home. She went quickly and she killed it. Then she took some flour and she cooked some flat bread without yeast. 
1Samuel28:25 She gave the food to Saul and to his men and they ate it. Then they left her house that night. 
1Samuel29:1 The Philistine army put up their tents at Aphek. The Israelites made their camp near the spring of water at Jezreel. 
1Samuel29:2 The Philistine rulers marched out with their groups of soldiers. They were in groups of 100 soldiers and 1,000 soldiers. David and his men were marching with King Achish at the back of the army." 
1Samuel29:3 The Philistine leaders asked, ‘Why are these Hebrew people here?’ Achish said to them, ‘This is David. He was the servant of Israel's King Saul. But he came to me more than a year ago. Since he turned against King Saul and came to me, he has always been faithful to me.’" 
1Samuel29:4 But the Philistine leaders were angry with Achish. They said to him, ‘Send David back to the town that you gave to him. He must not go with us to fight the battle. He might turn against us and become our enemy. Then he would start to kill our own soldiers. That would make his master, Saul, very happy!" 
1Samuel29:5 Remember who this man David is! The Israelites sing this about him when they dance: “Saul has killed thousands of his enemies. But David has killed tens of thousands of his enemies.” ’ 
1Samuel29:6 So Achish called David to come to him. He said, ‘As surely as the Lord lives, I know that I can trust you. I would like you to go with me to fight the battle. Since the first day that you came to me, I have never found anything wrong with you. But the other leaders do not trust you." 
1Samuel29:7 So return to your home and have peace in your mind. Do not do anything that will make the other Philistine leaders angry.’ 
1Samuel29:8 David said to King Achish, ‘What have I done that is wrong? You say that you have found nothing wrong with me all the time that I have been with you. You are my master and king. So why should I not go with you to fight your enemies?’" 
1Samuel29:9 Achish replied, ‘I believe that you are as good as an angel from God. But the Philistine leaders have said, “David must not go with us to fight the battle.”" 
1Samuel29:10 So you must all get up early tomorrow morning. As soon as there is light at dawn, you must leave with the men who came with you.’" 
1Samuel29:11 So David and his men got up early in the morning. They returned along the road back to Ziklag. The Philistine army went to Jezreel. 
1Samuel30:1 David and his men arrived at Ziklag three days after they left King Achish. They found that the Amalekites had attacked Ziklag and towns in the south of Judah. The Amalekites had destroyed Ziklag with fire. 
1Samuel30:2 They had caught the women and the other people who were in the town, both young people and old people. They did not kill any of them, but they took them away as prisoners." 
1Samuel30:3 So when David and his men arrived at Ziklag, they saw that the Amalekites had destroyed the city. The Amalekites had taken away their wives, their sons and their daughters as prisoners." 
1Samuel30:4 David and his men wept loudly. They continued to weep until they had no strength to weep any more. 
1Samuel30:5 The Amalekites had taken both of David's wives: Ahinoam from Jezreel and Abigail from Carmel, who was Nabal's widow." 
1Samuel30:6 David was very upset because his men were complaining. They wanted to kill him with stones. His men were very upset because they had lost their sons and their daughters. But David trusted the Lord his God to make him strong. 
1Samuel30:7 Then David spoke to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son. David said to him, ‘Bring the priests' ephod to me.’ So Abiathar took the ephod to David." 
1Samuel30:8 David asked the Lord, ‘Should I chase after the men who attacked our town? Will I catch them?’ The Lord answered, ‘Yes, chase after them and you will certainly catch them. You will rescue your families.’" 
1Samuel30:9 So David and his 600 men left Ziklag. They arrived at Besor stream. Some of the men were too tired to go across the valley. So 200 men remained there. David and the other 400 men continued to chase after the Amalekites. 
1Samuel30:10  
1Samuel30:11 David's men found an Egyptian man in a field. They took him to David. They gave the man some water to drink and food to eat. 
1Samuel30:12 They gave him some dried figs and some raisins. Then he became stronger, because he had not eaten any food or drunk any water for three days." 
1Samuel30:13 David asked the man, ‘Who is your master? Where do you come from?’ The young man answered, ‘I am an Egyptian, the slave of an Amalekite man. My master left me here three days ago because I was ill." 
1Samuel30:14 We had attacked the south part of Judah, where the Kerethites live. We also attacked the land where the people of Caleb's clan live. We destroyed Ziklag with fire too.’" 
1Samuel30:15 David said to him, ‘Can you take me to find these men?’ The man said, ‘Please promise me in God's name that you will not kill me. Promise me that you will not take me back to my master. If you do that, I will lead you to find them.’" 
1Samuel30:16 So the Egyptian man took David to find the Amalekites. The men were sitting everywhere, all over the ground. They were having a party, eating and drinking. They were happy because they had taken so many things from the towns of the Philistines and from the people in Judah." 
1Samuel30:17 That evening, David attacked the Amalekites. The fight continued until the next evening. David and his men killed all the Amalekites except for 400 young men. Those 400 men rode away on their camels." 
1Samuel30:18 David got back everything that the Amalekites had taken. And he rescued his two wives. 
1Samuel30:19 The people had lost nothing. David brought everyone back, the young people and the old people, the sons and the daughters. He brought back all the valuable things and everything that the Amalekites had taken." 
1Samuel30:20 David took all the sheep, goats and cows from the Amalekites. His men led these animals in front of the other animals. They said, ‘These animals will belong to David!’" 
1Samuel30:21 David returned to the 200 men who had stayed beside the Besor stream. These men had been too tired to go with David. They came to meet David and the men who were with him. When David met them, he happily said ‘hello’ to them." 
1Samuel30:22 But some of the men who had gone with David were wicked and stupid. They said, ‘These men did not come with us to attack the Amalekites. So we will not give them any of the things that we have brought back. Each man can have only his wife and his children. Then they must take them back home.’" 
1Samuel30:23 David said, ‘No, my brothers. You cannot do that. The Lord has given all these things to us. He has kept us safe. He has helped us to win against the enemies who attacked us." 
1Samuel30:24 Nobody will agree with what you say. Each person will receive an equal part. The men who stayed here with our things and the men who went to fight will all receive the same amount.’ 
1Samuel30:25 David made this a rule for the Israelites, and they still obey it." 
1Samuel30:26 David arrived back at Ziklag with all the things that they had taken from the Amalekites. He sent some of the things to the leaders of Judah who were his friends. David sent this message, ‘Here is a gift for you. We took these things from the Lord 's enemies.’" 
1Samuel30:27 David sent gifts to the leaders in these towns: Bethel, Ramoth in the desert in the south, Jattir," 
1Samuel30:28 Aroer, Siphmoth, Eshtemoa," 
1Samuel30:29 Racal, the towns where the clan of Jerahmeel live, the towns where the Kenites live," 
1Samuel30:30 Hormah, Bor Ashan, Athach" 
1Samuel30:31 and Hebron. David also sent gifts to the people in the towns that he and his men had visited. 
1Samuel31:1 The Philistines fought against the Israelites. The Israelites ran away, and the Philistines killed many of them on Mount Gilboa." 
1Samuel31:2 The Philistines chased after Saul and his sons to catch them. They killed Saul's sons, Jonathan, Abinadab and Malki-Shua." 
1Samuel31:3 The Philistines were fighting the battle all around Saul. Some of their soldiers saw Saul and they shot their arrows at him. The arrows hurt Saul very much and he was nearly dead. 
1Samuel31:4 He said to the young man who carried his armour, ‘Kill me now with your sword. I do not want these foreign men to be cruel to me as they kill me.’ But the young man would not agree to kill Saul because he was too afraid. So Saul took his own sword and he threw himself onto it so that he died." 
1Samuel31:5 The young man saw that Saul was dead. So he threw himself onto his own sword and he also died. 
1Samuel31:6 So Saul died there, with his three sons. The young man who carried Saul's armour and all Saul's men died too." 
1Samuel31:7 The Israelites who lived in the Jezreel Valley and on the other side of the Jordan River saw what happened. They saw that the Israelite army had run away from the Philistines. They saw that Saul and his sons were dead. So they left their towns and they ran away. Then the Philistines came to live in those towns. 
1Samuel31:8 The day after the battle, the Philistines came to take all the valuable things from the dead soldiers. They found the dead bodies of Saul and his three sons on Mount Gilboa." 
1Samuel31:9 They cut off Saul's head and they removed his armour. Then they sent men through all the country of the Philistines with the news of Saul's death. These men told the news to the Philistine people and also in the temples of their idols. 
1Samuel31:10 They put Saul's armour in the temple of their god Ashtoreth. Then they hung Saul's dead body on the wall of Beth Shan town. 
1Samuel31:11 The Israelites who lived in Jabesh Gilead heard about what the Philistines had done to Saul's body. 
1Samuel31:12 So all their brave soldiers left Jabesh Gilead and they marched all night to Beth Shan. They removed the dead bodies of Saul and his sons from the town's wall. Then they took them to Jabesh Gilead. They burned the dead bodies there. 
1Samuel31:13 Then they took the bones and they buried them under a tamarisk tree at Jabesh Gilead. The men did not eat any food for seven days because they were so sad. 
2Samuel1:1 After David had won the fight against the Amalekites, he returned to Ziklag. He stayed in Ziklag for two days. Saul had already died." 
2Samuel1:2 The next day, a man arrived from the camp of Saul's army. He had dirt on his head and he had torn his clothes. When the man met David, he threw himself down on the ground to give honour to David." 
2Samuel1:3 David asked him, ‘Where have you come from?’ The man replied, ‘I have run from the Israelite army's camp.’" 
2Samuel1:4 David said, ‘Tell me what happened in the battle.’ The man replied, ‘The Israelites ran away and the enemy killed many of them. Even Saul and his son Jonathan are dead.’" 
2Samuel1:5 When the young man told this to David, David asked him, ‘How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?’" 
2Samuel1:6 The young man said, ‘I was on Mount Gilboa. I saw Saul there. He had to use his spear like a stick to help him to stand. The enemy army with its horses and chariots were getting very near to him." 
2Samuel1:7 Saul turned round and he saw me. He shouted to me and I said, “Here I am, sir.”" 
2Samuel1:8 He asked me, “Who are you?” I said to him, “I am an Amalekite.”" 
2Samuel1:9 He said to me, “Stand over me and kill me. I have a lot of pain and I am almost dead.”" 
2Samuel1:10 I knew that he would soon fall down. He was too weak to live. So I stood over him and I killed him. Then I took the crown from his head and the ring that was on his arm. I have brought them here to you, my lord.’" 
2Samuel1:11 Then David tore his clothes because he was very upset. The men who were with him did the same thing. 
2Samuel1:12 They cried and they wept until the evening. They did not eat any food. They were very upset about Saul and Jonathan, and all the Lord 's people. They were sad because so many Israelites had died in the battle." 
2Samuel1:13 David asked the young man who had brought the report to him, ‘Where are you from?’ The man replied, ‘I am an Amalekite, the son of a foreign man who lives in Israel.’" 
2Samuel1:14 David said to him, ‘The Lord had chosen Saul to be Israel's king. You should have been very afraid to kill him!’" 
2Samuel1:15 Then David said to one of his own young men, ‘Go and knock him down!’ So the man knocked him down so that he died." 
2Samuel1:16 David had said to the Amalekite, ‘You deserve to die because of what you have said. Your own words show that you did a bad thing. You yourself said, “I have killed the Lord 's chosen king.” ’" 
2Samuel1:17 David sang this song to remember the death of Saul and his son Jonathan. 
2Samuel1:18 He said that the people in Judah should learn this song. Its name is ‘The Bow ’. It is written down in the Book of Jashar. 
2Samuel1:19 ‘The greatest men of Israel now lie on the mountains. They are dead! Those brave men have fallen to the ground! 
2Samuel1:20 Do not tell the people in Gath about it. Do not tell the news in the streets of Ashkelon. If you do, the daughters of the Philistines will sing with joy. Yes, those foreign people who do not worship God will be happy." 
2Samuel1:21 You mountains of Gilboa, may there be no rain or dew on you now. May no crops grow in your fields to make grain offerings. In those fields, the shields of brave soldiers became useless. No longer will anyone clean Saul's shield with oil." 
2Samuel1:22 When Jonathan shot arrows from his bow, his enemies fell to the ground, dead. Saul's sword also cut down his enemies. He never failed to kill them." 
2Samuel1:23 People loved Saul and Jonathan as great people while they lived. They were still together when they died. They moved faster than eagles. They were stronger than lions. 
2Samuel1:24 You women of Israel, weep for Saul. He gave you beautiful clothes to wear. He gave you gold and jewels to fix on your clothes." 
2Samuel1:25 Brave soldiers have died as they fought a great battle! Jonathan's dead body lies on Gilboa's hills. 
2Samuel1:26 My brother, Jonathan! I am very sad about your death. You were my good friend. Your love for me was very special. It was better than the love of women." 
2Samuel1:27 The brave men have fallen in the battle! Their weapons are now useless.’ 
2Samuel2:1 After some time, David asked the Lord, ‘Should I go up to one of Judah's towns?’ The Lord said to him, ‘Go up.’ David asked, ‘Where should I go?’ The Lord replied, ‘Go to Hebron.’" 
2Samuel2:2 So David went up to Hebron. He took his two wives with him. They were Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail, Nabal's widow, from Carmel." 
2Samuel2:3 David also took the men who had been with him. Each man took his family. They lived in Hebron and in the towns near there. 
2Samuel2:4 Then the men of Judah's tribe came to Hebron. They anointed David as king over Judah's people. David heard that the people from Jabesh Gilead had buried Saul's body. 
2Samuel2:5 So David sent men to them with a message. He said, ‘You were kind to Saul, your master, when you buried his body. So I pray that the Lord will bless you." 
2Samuel2:6 I pray that the Lord will keep you safe with his faithful love. I too will help you, because of what you have done." 
2Samuel2:7 Saul, your master, is dead, so you must continue to be strong and brave. The people of Judah have now chosen me to rule them as king.’" 
2Samuel2:8 Ner's son Abner was the leader of Saul's army. He took Saul's son Ish-Bosheth to Mahanaim. 
2Samuel2:9 Abner gave Ish-Bosheth authority to rule as king over Gilead, Asher and Jezreel, as well as the tribes of Ephraim and Benjamin. So Ish-Bosheth became king of all Israel." 
2Samuel2:10 Saul's son, Ish-Bosheth, was 40 years old when he became king over Israel. He ruled Israel for two years. But Judah's people were faithful to David as their king." 
2Samuel2:11 David remained in Hebron as king of Judah for seven and a half years. 
2Samuel2:12 Then Ner's son, Abner, left Mahanaim and he went to Gibeon. He took with him the men who served Saul's son, Ish-Bosheth." 
2Samuel2:13 Zeruiah's son, Joab, took David's men to meet Abner's men at the pool of Gibeon. One group sat on one side of the pool while the other group sat on the other side." 
2Samuel2:14 Then Abner said to Joab, ‘Some young men from each of our groups should fight against each other. Then we can watch them.’ Joab agreed." 
2Samuel2:15 So they chose 12 men to fight on behalf of Benjamin and Ish-Bosheth. They also chose 12 of David's men to fight against them. 
2Samuel2:16 As they fought, each man took hold of his enemy's head. And each man pushed his sword into his enemy's side. So they all fell down together and they were dead. So people called that place ‘The Field of Swords’. It is in Gibeon." 
2Samuel2:17 That day, the two groups fought a great battle against each other. David's men won the fight against Abner and the men of Israel." 
2Samuel2:18 Zeruiah's three sons were there. They were Joab, Abishai and Asahel. Asahel could run as fast as a wild deer." 
2Samuel2:19 He chased after Abner. He ran straight after him. He did not turn to the right or to the left. 
2Samuel2:20 Abner looked behind him and he asked, ‘Is that you, Asahel?’ He answered, ‘Yes, it is.’" 
2Samuel2:21 Then Abner said to him, ‘Turn away from me to the right or to the left. Then you can chase one of the young soldiers and you can take his weapons.’ But Asahel would not stop chasing after Abner." 
2Samuel2:22 Abner said again to Asahel, ‘Stop chasing after me. I do not want to knock you down to the ground. If I kill you, I will never be able to show myself to your brother Joab again!’" 
2Samuel2:23 But Asahel refused to stop chasing Abner. So Abner pushed the stick of his spear behind him into Asahel's stomach. It went through his body and came out of his back. Asahel fell to the ground immediately and he died there. When anyone came to that place, they stopped to look at Asahel's body." 
2Samuel2:24 But Joab and Abishai continued to chase after Abner. When the sun was going down, they reached Ammah hill, near Giah. That was on the road to the wilderness of Gibeon." 
2Samuel2:25 Then the men of Benjamin's tribe joined with Abner. They were all ready to fight as one group. They stood together at the top of a hill. 
2Samuel2:26 Abner shouted to Joab, ‘We should stop fighting. We do not want to continue killing one another for ever. In the end, we would all be very sad. Please tell your men to stop chasing after their brothers.’" 
2Samuel2:27 Joab replied, ‘As surely as God lives, I agree! If you had not spoken, our men would have chased you all through the night. They would not have stopped until the morning.’" 
2Samuel2:28 So Joab made a loud noise with the trumpet. Then all his men stopped where they were. They did not continue to chase after the men of Israel. They stopped fighting. 
2Samuel2:29 Abner and his men marched all that night through the Jordan Valley. They went across the Jordan River. They continued to march all the next morning until they arrived back at Mahanaim. 
2Samuel2:30 Joab left the battle and he returned with David's men. They counted all the soldiers. Asahel had died, as well as 19 other men." 
2Samuel2:31 But David's soldiers had killed 360 men of Benjamin's tribe who were fighting in Abner's army. 
2Samuel2:32 They took Asahel's body from the place where he died. They buried him in his father's grave at Bethlehem. Then Joab and his men marched all night. They arrived home at Hebron at dawn. 
2Samuel3:1 David's men continued to fight against the men who were faithful to Saul's family. The war continued for a long time. David's army became stronger and stronger, but Saul's army became weaker and weaker." 
2Samuel3:2 While David lived in Hebron he had several sons: The firstborn was Amnon. Ahinoam from Jezreel gave birth to him. 
2Samuel3:3 The second son was Kileab. Nabal's widow, Abigail, from Carmel gave birth to him. The third son was Absalom. His mother was Maakah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur." 
2Samuel3:4 The fourth son was Adonijah. His mother was Haggith. The fifth son was Shephatiah. Abital was his mother. 
2Samuel3:5 The sixth son was Ithream. David's wife, Eglah, gave birth to him. These sons of David were all born in Hebron." 
2Samuel3:6 The war continued between David's men and the men who fought on behalf of Saul's family. Abner was becoming a more powerful leader among Saul's group. 
2Samuel3:7 Saul had had slave wife called Rizpah. She was Aiah's daughter. One day, Ish-Bosheth asked Abner, ‘Why did you sleep with my father's woman?’" 
2Samuel3:8 Abner was very angry because of what Ish-Bosheth had said to him. Abner said, ‘Do you think that I am a useless dog that belongs to Judah? I have always been faithful to your father Saul and to his family and his friends. I have not deceived you to put you under David's power. But now you say that I am guilty of a sin with this woman." 
2Samuel3:9 So I promise you this! Now I will help David to get what the Lord has promised to him. I ask God to punish me if I do not help David! 
2Samuel3:10 The Lord promised that David's family would rule as kings instead of Saul's family. He promised that David would be king over all the people of Israel and Judah, from Dan to Beersheba.’" 
2Samuel3:11 Ish-Bosheth was so afraid of Abner that he could not say anything. 
2Samuel3:12 Then Abner sent men to David with this message: ‘Who should rule this country? If you make an agreement with me, I will help you. I will cause all Israel's people to be faithful to you.’" 
2Samuel3:13 David said, ‘That is good! I will make an agreement with you. But you must do this for me: You must bring Saul's daughter, Michal, with you when you come to visit me. If you do not do that, I will not agree to see you.’" 
2Samuel3:14 Then David sent men to Saul's son, Ish-Bosheth, with this message: ‘Give back to me my wife, Michal. I paid 100 Philistine foreskins to have her as my wife.’" 
2Samuel3:15 So Ish-Bosheth sent his men to take Michal from her husband, Paltiel, son of Laish." 
2Samuel3:16 But her husband came with her. He wept while he followed her all the way to Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, ‘Return to your home!’ So he returned home." 
2Samuel3:17 Then Abner talked to the leaders of Israel. He said, ‘For a long time you have wanted David to be your king." 
2Samuel3:18 So now is your chance to do something! Remember that the Lord promised, “I will use David's strength to save my people, Israel, from the Philistines and from all their enemies.” ’" 
2Samuel3:19 Abner also went himself to speak to the men of Benjamin's tribe. After that, he went to Hebron. He went to tell David everything that Israel's people had agreed to do. All the people of Benjamin's tribe had also agreed to do the same thing." 
2Samuel3:20 Abner arrived in Hebron with 20 of his men to visit David. David prepared a feast for Abner and the men who were with him. 
2Samuel3:21 Then Abner said to David, ‘Please let me go now to bring all the people of Israel together for my lord the king. Then they will make an agreement with you. Then you will rule over the whole land, as you really want to do.’ So David sent Abner away, with a promise that he would be safe." 
2Samuel3:22 David's men and Joab had attacked some of the enemy's towns. Now they were returning home. They brought with them a lot of things that they had taken from the enemy. By this time Abner had left Hebron because David had sent him away safely. 
2Samuel3:23 When Joab and all his soldiers arrived in Hebron, people told him, ‘Ner's son Abner came to visit the king. The king sent him back home safely.’" 
2Samuel3:24 Joab went to the king. He said, ‘Why did you do this? Abner came to visit you. You allowed him to go back home safely. Now he has gone." 
2Samuel3:25 You should know what Abner is like. He came here to deceive you. He wanted to find out everything that you do and everywhere that you go.’ 
2Samuel3:26 Then Joab left David. He sent men to run after Abner with a message. They found him at the well at Sirah and they brought him back to Hebron. But David did not know that. 
2Samuel3:27 When Abner returned to Hebron, Joab met him at the city's gate. Then Joab took him into a corner, as if he wanted to speak with Abner alone. But he pushed his knife into Abner's stomach. Joab killed Abner because Abner had killed Asahel, Joab's brother." 
2Samuel3:28 Later, David heard about what Joab had done. He said, ‘The Lord knows this: I and the people of my kingdom are not guilty of Abner's murder." 
2Samuel3:29 I pray that Joab and all his father's family will pay for this murder! May God punish his descendants for ever! May somebody always have sores or leprosy. May there be men who are not brave enough to fight, men who die in battle, or people who have no food to eat!’" 
2Samuel3:30 That is how Joab and his brother Abishai killed Abner. They killed him because he had killed their brother Asahel in the battle at Gibeon. 
2Samuel3:31 David said to Joab and to all the people who were with him, ‘Tear your clothes! Wear sackcloth to show that you are sad! Weep because of Abner's death.’ King David himself walked behind the men who carried Abner's dead body." 
2Samuel3:32 They buried Abner in a grave in Hebron. The king wept loudly beside Abner's grave. All the people wept too. 
2Samuel3:33 The king sang this song about Abner's death: ‘Abner, you should not have died like a fool." 
2Samuel3:34 Nobody had tied your hands. Nobody had put chains on your feet. It was murder by wicked people that killed you.’ Then all the people started to weep again for Abner. 
2Samuel3:35 The people came and spoke to David. They said that he should eat some food before the end of the day. But David said, ‘I will not eat any food at all before sunset. May God punish me if I eat anything!’" 
2Samuel3:36 All the people heard David say this. It made them happy. They were pleased with everything that the king did. 
2Samuel3:37 That day, everyone in Israel realized that David had not wanted the death of Ner's son, Abner." 
2Samuel3:38 The king said to his servants, ‘You must understand that a great leader has died today in Israel." 
2Samuel3:39 I am God's chosen king, but even I am weak today. I cannot control these sons of Zeruiah! They have done a wicked thing. I pray that the Lord will punish them as they deserve.’" 
2Samuel4:1 Saul's son Ish-Bosheth heard the news that Abner had died in Hebron. Then he felt very frightened. All the people in Israel became afraid. 
2Samuel4:2 Ish-Bosheth had two officers called Baanah and Rekab. They were leaders of small groups of soldiers. Their father was Rimmon from Beeroth. He belonged to Benjamin's tribe. At that time, Beeroth was part of Benjamin's land." 
2Samuel4:3 The people from Beeroth had run away to Gittaim. So Beeroth's people still live there as strangers. 
2Samuel4:4 Saul's son Jonathan had a son called Mephibosheth. Since he was five years old he had not been able to walk. At that time someone had come from Jezreel to say that Saul and Jonathan had died. So Mephibosheth's nurse picked him up to escape with him. But as she ran in a hurry, he fell to the ground. It hurt his feet so that he could not walk properly." 
2Samuel4:5 Rimmon's sons, Rekab and Baanah, left their home and they went to Ish-Bosheth's house. They arrived in the middle of the day when it was very hot. Ish-Bosheth was resting on his bed." 
2Samuel4:6 They went into the house as if they wanted to get some wheat. But they pushed knives into Ish-Bosheth's stomach. Then Rekab and his brother Baanah escaped. 
2Samuel4:7 When they had gone into the house, Ish-Bosheth had been lying on his bed in his bedroom. After they had killed him, they cut off his head. They took it with them and they travelled all night through the Jordan Valley." 
2Samuel4:8 They brought Ish-Bosheth's head to David in Hebron. They said to the king, ‘Here is the head of Ish-Bosheth, Saul's son! Saul was your enemy who wanted to kill you. So today the Lord has punished him and his descendants. They have paid for the bad things that they did to you, our lord, the king.’" 
2Samuel4:9 David answered Rekab and his brother Baanah, the sons of Rimmon from Beeroth. He said to them, ‘The Lord has rescued me from all my troubles. So I tell you this, as surely as the Lord lives:" 
2Samuel4:10 When someone told me in Ziklag, “Saul is dead,” he thought that he was bringing good news to me. But I took hold of him and I told my men to kill him. That was how I paid him for his good news!" 
2Samuel4:11 Now you wicked men have done a worse thing. You killed a good man in his own house while he was asleep! So I must surely punish you for his death. You must disappear from the earth!’ 
2Samuel4:12 So David commanded his young men to kill Rekab and Baanah. After they had killed them, they cut off their hands and their feet. They hung the dead bodies by the pool in Hebron. But they took Ish-Bosheth's head and they buried it in Abner's grave in Hebron." 
2Samuel5:1 All Israel's tribes came to David at Hebron. They said, ‘We all belong to the same family as you do." 
2Samuel5:2 In the past, when Saul ruled over us as king, you were the leader of Israel's army in the wars. The Lord said to you, “You will take care of my people as a shepherd takes care of his sheep. You will rule over Israel.” ’" 
2Samuel5:3 So King David made an agreement with the leaders of Israel when they came to him at Hebron. They made promises in the Lord 's name. Then they anointed David to be king over Israel. 
2Samuel5:4 David was 30 years old when he became king. He ruled Israel as king for 40 years. 
2Samuel5:5 He ruled over Judah in Hebron for seven years and six months. And in Jerusalem he ruled over all Israel and Judah for 33 years. 
2Samuel5:6 King David and his soldiers marched to Jerusalem. They went to attack the Jebusites who lived there. The Jebusites said to David, ‘You will never get into our city. Even blind men and those who are lame could keep you out.’ They thought, ‘David will never get in here.’" 
2Samuel5:7 But David did get in and he took Zion, the city's strong place. It is now called ‘The City of David’." 
2Samuel5:8 On that day, David said to his men, ‘We must attack my enemies, the Jebusites. To do that, we must go into the city through the water tunnel. Then we will see if their blind and lame people can stop us! I hate them all.’ That is why people still say, ‘Anybody who is blind or lame must not go into the palace.’" 
2Samuel5:9 Then David went to live in the strong place of the city. He called it ‘The City of David ’. He built more houses all around it, from the edge of the hill into the city." 
2Samuel5:10 David became more and more powerful because the Lord God Almighty was with him. 
2Samuel5:11 Then Hiram, king of Tyre, sent some of his men to David. They brought wood from Lebanon's cedar trees. Men who could work with wood and stone also came. They built a palace for David." 
2Samuel5:12 David knew that the Lord had made him strong as king over Israel. He knew that God had given honour to his kingdom, to help his people, the Israelites." 
2Samuel5:13 After David moved to Jerusalem from Hebron, he married more wives. He also took more slave wives to live with him. They gave birth to more sons and daughters for David." 
2Samuel5:14 These are the names of David's children who were born in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon," 
2Samuel5:15 Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia," 
2Samuel5:16 Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet." 
2Samuel5:17 The Philistines heard the news that David had now become king over Israel. So their whole army went to look for him to catch him. When David heard about this, he went out of the city to a strong, safe place." 
2Samuel5:18 The Philistine soldiers arrived at Rephaim Valley. They covered all the ground there. 
2Samuel5:19 So David asked the Lord, ‘Should I go and attack the Philistines? Will you put them under my power?’ The Lord answered him, ‘Yes, go and attack the Philistines. I will certainly help you to win against them.’" 
2Samuel5:20 So David went to Baal Perazim. He won the fight against the Philistines in that place. He said, ‘The Lord has swept away my enemy like a flood of water.’ So they called that place ‘Baal Perazim’." 
2Samuel5:21 When the Philistines ran away from there, they did not take their idols with them. So David and his men took them away." 
2Samuel5:22 Once again, the Philistine soldiers came and they covered the ground in Rephaim Valley." 
2Samuel5:23 So David again asked the Lord what he should do. This time the Lord said, ‘Do not march straight towards them. Instead, go round behind them. Then attack them from the other side, where the poplar trees are." 
2Samuel5:24 When you hear a noise in the tops of the trees like marching men, go quickly to attack them. Then you will know that the Lord has gone in front of you. He will knock down the Philistine army for you.’" 
2Samuel5:25 So David did as the Lord had commanded him to do. His men chased the Philistines all the way from Gibeon to Gezer. 
2Samuel6:1 David chose 30,000 of the best soldiers in Israel." 
2Samuel6:2 He took them with him to Baalah, a town in Judah. He wanted to bring God's Covenant Box from there to Jerusalem. The Israelites called it by the name of the Lord Almighty. He sits as King between the two cherubs that are on the top of the Covenant Box." 
2Samuel6:3 They put the Covenant Box on a new cart. They took it out of Abinadab's house which was on the hill. Abinadab's sons, Uzzah and Ahio, were leading the new cart" 
2Samuel6:4 which had the Covenant Box on it. Ahio walked in front of the Covenant Box. 
2Samuel6:5 David and all Israel's people were singing and dancing with all their strength to praise the Lord. They made music with harps, lyres, tambourines, shakers and cymbals." 
2Samuel6:6 They reached the place of Nacon's threshing floor. There the oxen that were pulling the cart almost fell. So Uzzah reached out to hold God's Covenant Box to stop it falling. 
2Samuel6:7 The Lord was very angry with Uzzah because he did not respect God's rules. He immediately knocked Uzzah down to the ground. Uzzah died there, beside the Covenant Box." 
2Samuel6:8 David was angry because the Lord had punished Uzzah. So he called that place ‘Perez Uzzah’. That is still its name today. 
2Samuel6:9 So David now became afraid of the Lord. He said, ‘The Lord 's Covenant Box is too holy to come with me!’" 
2Samuel6:10 He no longer wanted to take the Lord 's Covenant Box to the City of David to be with him there. Instead, he took it to the house of Obed-Edom, who came from Gath." 
2Samuel6:11 The Lord 's Covenant Box stayed in Obed-Edom's house for three months. During that time, the Lord blessed Obed-Edom and all the people in his house." 
2Samuel6:12 People told King David, ‘The Lord has blessed Obed-Edom's family and everything that belongs to him, because of the Covenant Box.’ So David went back to Obed-Edom's house. He was now happy to bring the Covenant Box from there to the City of David." 
2Samuel6:13 The men who were carrying it walked six steps and they stopped. Then David offered a bull and a fat calf as sacrifices to God. 
2Samuel6:14 David was wearing a linen ephod. He danced with all his strength to worship the Lord. 
2Samuel6:15 He and all the Israelites brought the Lord 's Covenant Box to Jerusalem. They shouted and they made a loud noise with trumpets. 
2Samuel6:16 While they were bringing the Lord 's Covenant Box into the City of David, Saul's daughter Michal looked out through a window. She saw what King David was doing. He was jumping and dancing to worship the Lord. Michal felt ashamed of him." 
2Samuel6:17 David had put up a special tent for the Covenant Box, so they took it there. They put it in its place inside the tent. Then David offered burnt offerings and friendship offerings to the Lord." 
2Samuel6:18 After David had offered those sacrifices, he prayed that the Lord Almighty would bless the people." 
2Samuel6:19 Then he gave a gift to every man and woman in the crowd of Israelite people. Each person received a loaf of bread, some dates and some raisins. Then all the people went to their homes." 
2Samuel6:20 David returned to his home to bless his own family. As he arrived, Saul's daughter Michal came out to meet him. She said, ‘The king of Israel has brought honour to himself today, has he? No, he has brought shame on himself! Even your officers' slave girls have seen how stupid you are. You have made your body bare like a useless fool!’" 
2Samuel6:21 David said to Michal, ‘I was worshipping the Lord with joy! It was the Lord who chose me to be the ruler of his people, Israel. He chose me instead of your father or any of his family." 
2Samuel6:22 I am ready to bring even more shame on myself. Even I will be ashamed of myself! But the slave girls that you spoke about will still give me honour!’ 
2Samuel6:23 Saul's daughter Michal gave birth to no children all her life. 
2Samuel7:1 The king was living in his palace. The Lord kept him safe from all his enemies everywhere. 
2Samuel7:2 One day, the king said to Nathan the prophet, ‘I am living in a beautiful palace that is made of cedar wood. But God's Covenant Box still has a tent for its home!’" 
2Samuel7:3 Nathan replied to the king, ‘Do what you think is right. The Lord will help you.’" 
2Samuel7:4 But that night the Lord said to Nathan," 
2Samuel7:5 ‘Go and tell my servant David, “The Lord says this: Do not think that you are the right man to build a house for me to live in." 
2Samuel7:6 From the time that I brought Israel's people out of Egypt until now, I have never lived in a house. While my people moved from place to place, I travelled with them. I lived in a tent as my home." 
2Samuel7:7 I have moved about to many different places with the Israelite people. I chose leaders to take care of Israel's tribes, like shepherds for them. But in all that time, I never said to any of the leaders, ‘You should have built a beautiful house of cedar wood for me.’" 
2Samuel7:8 So tell my servant David that the Lord Almighty says this: I took you from the fields where you were taking care of sheep. I took you from there to become the ruler of my people Israel. 
2Samuel7:9 I have been with you everywhere that you have gone. I destroyed all your enemies that were attacking you. Now I will make you famous. Your name will be as great as the names of the earth's greatest men. 
2Samuel7:10 I have chosen a place where my people Israel will live. I have put them in that place, where they can be safe. They will not be afraid of trouble from any enemy. Wicked people will not hurt them any more. That happened in the past," 
2Samuel7:11 from the time that I chose leaders to rule my people Israel. But now I will keep you safe from all your enemies. I, the Lord, say to you, David: I will give you descendants who will rule as kings after you. That will be the royal house that I build for you!" 
2Samuel7:12 When you die, people will bury you in the grave of your ancestors. Then I will choose your descendant, one of your own sons, to become king. I will make his kingdom strong." 
2Samuel7:13 He is the man who will build a house for me. People will give honour to my name there. I will cause his descendants to rule as kings for ever. 
2Samuel7:14 I will be his father and he will be my son. When he does something wrong, I will punish him, so that he learns to do what is right. I will punish him in the way that human fathers punish their sons." 
2Samuel7:15 I removed my faithful love from Saul, and I removed him as king before you. But I will always continue to faithfully love your son." 
2Samuel7:16 The kingdom that your descendants rule will continue for ever. Someone from your family will always be king.” ’ 
2Samuel7:17 Nathan told David the whole message that God had shown to him. 
2Samuel7:18 Then King David went into the Lord 's tent. He sat down and he prayed to the Lord. He said, ‘ Almighty Lord, I am not a special person and my family is not special. You have helped me very much and I do not deserve it." 
2Samuel7:19 You have also made a promise about the descendants in my family, Almighty Lord. You have promised to help them in the future, as well as me. I am only a man but you have shown this to me, Almighty Lord." 
2Samuel7:20 I am your servant, Almighty Lord, and you know me completely. There is nothing more that I can say." 
2Samuel7:21 Because of your covenant you have chosen to do all these great things. You have told me, your servant, what you promise to do." 
2Samuel7:22 Almighty Lord, you are very great. There is nobody like you. You alone are God. What we have heard about you is true!" 
2Samuel7:23 There is no other nation on earth like your people, Israel. We are the only nation that you have rescued so that we would belong to you. You did that to show that your name is great. You did great miracles to rescue your people from Egypt where they were slaves. Then you chased out other nations and their gods from the land that you were giving to your people." 
2Samuel7:24 You chose Israel to be your own people for all time. You, Lord, became our God." 
2Samuel7:25 Lord God, please do the things that you have promised to do for me, your servant, and for my family. Continue to do for ever what you have promised to do." 
2Samuel7:26 Then people will always give honour to your great name. They will say, “The Lord Almighty is the God who rules over Israel!” And David's descendants will continue to serve you as kings." 
2Samuel7:27 Lord Almighty, Israel's God, you have made this promise to me, your servant. You have said to me, “You will always have descendants who will rule. That is the house that I will build for you.” That is why I am not afraid to pray to you like this." 
2Samuel7:28 Almighty Lord, you are the true God. We trust your promises. You have promised these good things to me, your servant." 
2Samuel7:29 I pray that you will be pleased to bless my family and my descendants. Then we will serve you faithfully for ever. Almighty Lord, you have promised to do this. So I know that you will continue to bless my descendants for ever.’" 
2Samuel8:1 Some time later, David attacked the Philistines, and he won the battle against them. He now had power over them and over their towns." 
2Samuel8:2 David also won a battle against the Moabites. He made the Moabite prisoners lie down on the ground. Then he used a piece of rope to measure them into groups. When he had measured two groups, he would tell his men to kill all those prisoners. When he measured the next group, he would let those prisoners stay alive. So the Moabites were now under David's authority and they began to pay taxes to him." 
2Samuel8:3 David also won a battle against Rehob's son, Hadadezer, king of Zobah. This happened when Hadadezer took his army to the Euphrates River to show that he had authority there." 
2Samuel8:4 David took from Hadadezer 1,700 men who drove chariots. He also caught 20,000 of Hadadezer's other soldiers. David kept 100 of the horses that pulled chariots. But he cut the legs of the other horses so that they could not run." 
2Samuel8:5 The Syrians from Damascus sent an army to help King Hadadezer of Zobah. But David killed 22,000 soldiers of the Syrian army." 
2Samuel8:6 David put groups of his soldiers in Damascus to be guards over the Syrian people. So the Syrians were now under David's authority and they paid taxes to him. The Lord helped David to win all the battles that he fought. 
2Samuel8:7 David took the gold shields that Hadadezer's officers had carried. He brought the shields to Jerusalem. 
2Samuel8:8 David also took a lot of bronze things from Tebah and Berothai, towns that had belonged to Hadadezer." 
2Samuel8:9 Toi, the king of Hamath, heard news that David had won the battle against the whole army of Hadadezer." 
2Samuel8:10 There had been a war between King Hadadezer and King Toi. So now Toi sent his son, Joram to say ‘hello’ to David. He wanted to thank David because he had won the battle against King Hadadezer. Joram brought gifts to David that were made of gold, silver and bronze." 
2Samuel8:11 David took these gifts and he offered them to the Lord. He also offered to the Lord all the silver and gold things that he had taken from other nations. Those were all the nations that David had won against in battle. 
2Samuel8:12 They included Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines and the Amalekites. He also offered to the Lord things that he had taken from Rehob's son, King Hadadezer of Zobah." 
2Samuel8:13 After that, David's army won a battle in the Valley of Salt against 18,000 Edomites. David became very famous because of that." 
2Samuel8:14 He put groups of his soldiers in every part of Edom's land, so that David had authority over all the Edomites. The Lord helped David to win all the battles that he fought." 
2Samuel8:15 David ruled over all Israel. He did everything that was right and fair for all his people. 
2Samuel8:16 Zeruiah's son, Joab, was the leader of Israel's army. Ahilud's son, Jehoshaphat, wrote down the important things that happened." 
2Samuel8:17 Ahitub's son Zadok and Abiathar's son Ahimelech were priests. Seraiah was David's secretary. 
2Samuel8:18 Jehoiada's son Benaiah was the leader of David's personal guards. David's sons served as priests. 
2Samuel9:1 David asked, ‘Is there anyone from Saul's family who is still alive? I want to be kind to them because Jonathan was my friend.’" 
2Samuel9:2 Saul's family had a servant called Ziba. So they asked him to come to see David. The king said to him, ‘Are you Ziba?’ Ziba replied, ‘Yes, I am your servant.’" 
2Samuel9:3 The king asked him, ‘Is there anyone from Saul's family who is still alive? I want to be kind to them because of God's faithful love for his people.’ Ziba replied, ‘One of Jonathan's sons still lives. But both his feet are weak so that he cannot walk properly.’" 
2Samuel9:4 The king asked Ziba, ‘Where is he?’ Ziba answered, ‘He lives in the house of Ammiel's son, Makir, in Lo-Debar.’" 
2Samuel9:5 So David sent his men to bring him from the house of Ammiel's son, Makir, in Lo-Debar." 
2Samuel9:6 Then Jonathan's son Mephibosheth, grandson of Saul, came to David. He bent his body down to the ground to respect David. David said, ‘Mephibosheth!’ Mephibosheth replied, ‘Yes, I am your servant.’" 
2Samuel9:7 David said to him, ‘Do not be afraid. I will be kind to you because your father Jonathan was my friend. I will give back to you all the land which belonged to your grandfather, Saul. You will always be able to eat here with me.’" 
2Samuel9:8 Mephibosheth bent his body low. He said, ‘I am your servant, no better than a dead dog. I do not deserve that you should be so kind to me.’" 
2Samuel9:9 Then David sent his men to bring Saul's servant, Ziba. David said to him, ‘I have given everything that belonged to Saul or his family to your master's grandson, Mephibosheth." 
2Samuel9:10 You, your sons and your servants must work on the land for him. You must grow crops that will be food for your master's grandson to eat. But Mephibosheth will always be able to eat with me.’ Ziba himself had 15 sons and 20 servants." 
2Samuel9:11 Ziba said to the king, ‘I am your servant. I will do everything that my lord the king has told me to do.’ So after that, Mephibosheth ate meals at the king's table. He was like one of the king's own sons." 
2Samuel9:12 Mephibosheth had a young son called Mica. Ziba and all his family and servants became servants to Mephibosheth. 
2Samuel9:13 That is how Mephibosheth came to live in Jerusalem. He could always eat his meals at the king's table. He had two weak feet, so he could not walk properly." 
2Samuel10:1 Some time later, the king of the Ammonites died. His son Hanun became the new king." 
2Samuel10:2 David thought, ‘I will be kind to Hanun, because his father Nahash was kind to me.’ So David sent some of his officers to give a message to Hanun. David wanted to tell Hanun that he was sorry that Nahash had died. David's officers took his message to the land of the Ammonites." 
2Samuel10:3 The leaders of the Ammonites said to Hanun, the king, ‘David has sent his officers to you with a kind message about your father's death. But do not think that he really wants to give honour to your father. No, he has sent his officers to look at our city. They want to see how David's army can attack the city and take it for themselves.’" 
2Samuel10:4 So Hanun took hold of David's officers. He cut off half the hair from their beards. He also cut off the lower half of their clothes up to their hips. Then he sent them away. 
2Samuel10:5 Some people told David what had happened. His officers were very ashamed, so David sent a message to them. King David said, ‘Stay in Jericho city until your beards have grown again. Then you can return here.’" 
2Samuel10:6 The Ammonites realized that they had made David very angry. So they paid 20,000 Syrian soldiers from Beth Rehob and Zobah to come and fight for them. They also brought 1,000 soldiers from the king of Maakah and 12,000 soldiers from Tob." 
2Samuel10:7 David heard news about this. So he sent Joab with all the soldiers in his army to fight against them. 
2Samuel10:8 The Ammonite soldiers marched out from their city. They stood in front of the city's gates and they were ready to fight. The Syrian soldiers from Zobah and Rehob and the soldiers from Tob and Maakah stayed in the fields near the city. 
2Samuel10:9 Joab saw that there were two groups of the enemy's soldiers. They were ready to attack his army from different sides. So he chose some of Israel's best soldiers. Joab himself led them to attack the Syrian soldiers in the fields. 
2Samuel10:10 He told his brother Abishai to lead the rest of Israel's army to fight against the Ammonites. 
2Samuel10:11 Joab said to Abishai, ‘If the Syrian soldiers are too strong for me, you must come to rescue me. But if the Ammonites are too strong for you, I will come to rescue you." 
2Samuel10:12 Be strong! We must be brave as we fight on behalf of our people and the cities of our God. The Lord will do what he decides is good.’ 
2Samuel10:13 Then Joab and his group of soldiers went to fight against the Syrians. As they marched towards the Syrian soldiers, the Syrians ran away." 
2Samuel10:14 The Ammonites saw that the Syrians were running away from Joab. So they also ran away from his brother Abishai's men. They ran back into their city. So Joab stopped fighting the Ammonites. He returned to Jerusalem with his army. 
2Samuel10:15 The Syrian soldiers realized that Israel had won the battle against them. So they brought all their soldiers together. 
2Samuel10:16 King Hadadezer sent a message for more Syrian soldiers to come from the other side of the Euphrates River. Shobach, the captain of his army, brought them all to Helam." 
2Samuel10:17 David heard about what was happening. So he took all Israel's soldiers across the Jordan River to Helam. The Syrian soldiers stood in their places ready to fight. When the battle started," 
2Samuel10:18 the Syrians ran away from the Israelites. David and his army killed 700 Syrians who drove chariots. They killed 40,000 other Syrian soldiers. David also knocked down Shobach, the captain of the Syrian army. Shobach died there." 
2Samuel10:19 All the other kings who were under Hadadezer's authority saw that Israel had won the battle. So they made an agreement with Israel that they would not fight against them any more. They agreed to serve the Israelites. After that, the Syrians were afraid to help the Ammonites any more." 
2Samuel11:1 In the spring, David sent out his army to attack the Ammonites. That was the time of year when kings go out to fight battles. Joab led the whole Israelite army, together with his officers. They attacked the Ammonites, and they won the fight against them. Israel's army made their camp all around Rabbah city. But David had stayed in Jerusalem." 
2Samuel11:2 One evening, David got up from his bed. He walked around on the roof of his palace. From the roof he saw a woman who was washing herself. She was very beautiful." 
2Samuel11:3 David sent a servant to ask who she was. The servant told him, ‘She is Eliam's daughter, Bathsheba. She is the wife of Uriah the Hittite.’" 
2Samuel11:4 Then David sent some servants to bring Bathsheba to him. She came to him and he slept with her. (She had just made herself clean from her monthly blood loss.) Then she returned to her home. 
2Samuel11:5 Later, Bathsheba realized that she was pregnant. She sent a message to tell David about it." 
2Samuel11:6 So David sent a message to Joab. He said, ‘Send Uriah the Hittite to me.’ So Joab sent Uriah to David." 
2Samuel11:7 When Uriah arrived, David asked him about Joab and the Israelite army. He asked Uriah about the war." 
2Samuel11:8 Then David said to Uriah, ‘Now go to your house and rest for a time.’ So Uriah left the palace. Then King David sent a gift to him at home." 
2Samuel11:9 But Uriah slept at the door of the palace, together with his master's servants. He did not go to his house." 
2Samuel11:10 David's servants told him, ‘Uriah did not go to his house last night.’ So David said to Uriah, ‘You have just arrived after a long journey. Why did you not go to your house?’" 
2Samuel11:11 Uriah said to David, ‘The armies of Israel and Judah are all living in tents, as well as the Covenant Box. My master Joab and the soldiers of your army are sleeping in the fields. So I cannot go to my house and eat a meal there. It would not be right for me to go home and sleep with my wife. As surely as you live, I promise that I would never do that!’" 
2Samuel11:12 David said to Uriah, ‘Stay here one more day. Tomorrow I will send you back to the war.’ So Uriah stayed in Jerusalem that day and the next day." 
2Samuel11:13 David asked him to come and eat a meal with him. David caused Uriah to drink a lot of wine so that he became drunk. But in the evening Uriah still did not go to his own house. He slept on his mat, where his master's servants all slept." 
2Samuel11:14 In the morning, David wrote a letter to Joab. Uriah took the letter to Joab." 
2Samuel11:15 In the letter, David told Joab, ‘Put Uriah at the front of all our soldiers, where the battle is most dangerous. Then tell the other soldiers to move back away from him. Then he will be alone and the enemy's soldiers will kill him.’" 
2Samuel11:16 Joab's soldiers were all around Rabbah city and they were watching it carefully. Joab sent Uriah to fight near to the city, where the enemy's best soldiers were." 
2Samuel11:17 When some of the Ammonite soldiers came out of the city to fight Joab's army, they killed some of David's men. Uriah the Hittite was one of the men who died there." 
2Samuel11:18 Joab wrote a report to tell David about the battle. 
2Samuel11:19 He told the man who was taking the message, ‘When you finish giving my report to the king," 
2Samuel11:20 the king may be angry. He may ask you, “Why did you go and fight so near to the city? Surely you knew that they would shoot arrows from the walls." 
2Samuel11:21 Remember how a woman killed Jerub-Besheth's son, Abimelech. She threw a heavy stone down on him from the city wall in Thebez. You should not have gone so near to Rabbah's city wall.” If King David does say that, tell him, “Your servant, Uriah the Hittite is dead too.” ’" 
2Samuel11:22 The man that Joab sent to David with his message arrived. He told David all the news that Joab had sent with him. 
2Samuel11:23 The man said to David, ‘The enemy's men were stronger than us and they attacked us in the fields. But we chased them back as far as the gate of their city." 
2Samuel11:24 Then enemy soldiers shot arrows from the city wall and some of your men died. Your servant, Uriah the Hittite, is also dead.’" 
2Samuel11:25 David said to the man that Joab had sent, ‘Tell Joab, “Do not be upset about this. The enemy will always kill some of our men, and it could be anyone. Continue to attack the city even more strongly and then you will take it for us.” If you say that to Joab, he will not be so sad.’" 
2Samuel11:26 Uriah's wife heard the news that her husband was dead. She was very sad and she wept because of his death. 
2Samuel11:27 The time for Uriah's wife to weep for her husband came to an end. Then David sent some of his men to bring her to his palace. She became David's wife. Later, she gave birth to a son. But the Lord was not pleased with David because of the bad things that David had done." 
2Samuel12:1 The Lord sent Nathan to go and speak to David. Nathan told this story to David, ‘There were two men who lived in the same town. One man was rich and the other man was poor." 
2Samuel12:2 The rich man had very many sheep, goats and cows." 
2Samuel12:3 But the poor man had only one little female lamb. He had bought it and he had taken care of it. It had grown up with his own children. It ate his bits of food and it drank water from his cup. It even slept while he held it. It was like a daughter for him. 
2Samuel12:4 One day, the rich man had a visitor to his home. The rich man needed to make a meal for his visitor. But he did not want to kill one of his own animals. Instead, he took the poor man's lamb away from him. He cooked the lamb to feed his visitor.’" 
2Samuel12:5 When David heard what the rich man had done, he became very angry. He said to Nathan, ‘As surely as the Lord lives, that man deserves to die." 
2Samuel12:6 He did that cruel thing and he was not sorry for the poor man. So he must pay the poor man enough money to buy four lambs.’ 
2Samuel12:7 Then Nathan said to David, ‘You are that man! This is what the Lord, Israel's God, says: “I chose you as king to rule over Israel. I saved you from Saul's power." 
2Samuel12:8 I gave your master's palace to you, and his wives as well. I gave the kingdoms of Israel and Judah to you. And if that was not enough for you, I would have given you even more than that." 
2Samuel12:9 But now you have not respected the Lord 's command. You have done an evil thing. You caused Uriah the Hittite to die in a battle. You used the Ammonite soldiers to kill Uriah. 
2Samuel12:10 So now your family will always have people who die in battle. When you took the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your own wife, you showed that you did not respect me.”" 
2Samuel12:11 This is what the Lord says, “I will cause someone from your own family to bring trouble to you. You yourself will see it happen! I will take your wives from you and I will give them to someone else. He will have sex with them in the daytime, for everyone to see." 
2Samuel12:12 What you did, you did secretly. But I will cause this to happen in the light of day, so that all Israel can see it.” ’" 
2Samuel12:13 Then David said to Nathan, ‘I have done a bad thing against the Lord.’ Nathan replied, ‘The Lord has forgiven your sin. He will not punish you with death." 
2Samuel12:14 But you did not respect the Lord when you did this bad thing. Because of that, your baby son will certainly die.’" 
2Samuel12:15 Then Nathan went home. After that, the Lord caused the child of Uriah's wife to become very ill." 
2Samuel12:16 David asked the Lord to make his child well again. He lay on the floor of his house all night and he ate no food. 
2Samuel12:17 His palace officers stood around him. They tried to help him to get up from the ground. But he refused and he would not eat anything with them. 
2Samuel12:18 On the seventh day, the child died. David's officers were afraid to tell him. They thought, ‘Even when the child was alive, David refused to listen to us. So what will happen if we tell him that the child is dead? He might try to hurt himself.’" 
2Samuel12:19 But David saw that his officers were speaking secretly to each other. So he realized that the child had died. He asked them, ‘Is the child dead?’ They replied, ‘Yes, he is dead.’" 
2Samuel12:20 Then David got up from the ground and he washed himself. He put special oil on his body and he dressed himself in clean clothes. Then he went into the Lord 's house to worship him. After that, he went back to his palace. He asked his servants to bring some food and he ate it." 
2Samuel12:21 His officers said to him, ‘We do not understand what you are doing. While the child was still alive, you refused to eat food and you wept. But now that the child is dead you are no longer weeping. You are moving around and you are eating. Why?’" 
2Samuel12:22 David replied, ‘While the child was still alive, I wept and I did not eat anything. I thought that perhaps the Lord would be kind to me. I thought that he might let the child live." 
2Samuel12:23 But now the child is dead. Even if I fast and I pray, I cannot bring him back to me. One day, I will go to the place where he is. But he will never come back here to me.’" 
2Samuel12:24 Then David went to comfort his wife, Bathsheba. He had sex with her as his wife. Later, she gave birth to a son. David gave him the name ‘Solomon’. The Lord loved the child," 
2Samuel12:25 so he sent a message to David with Nathan, the prophet. He told David to call his son Jedidiah, because the Lord loved him." 
2Samuel12:26 At this time, Joab was attacking Rabbah, the Ammonite city. He had taken from the enemy the king's strong place in the city." 
2Samuel12:27 Joab sent men to take this message to David: ‘I have attacked Rabbah. Now I have taken the place that holds the city's water. 
2Samuel12:28 So you should bring the other soldiers of our army to make their camp here. Then you can attack the city and you can take it for us. If you do not do that, I will take the city myself. Then the city will have my name instead of yours.’" 
2Samuel12:29 So David brought all the soldiers of the army together. He led them to Rabbah. They attacked the city and they won against it. 
2Samuel12:30 He took the crown off the Ammonite king's head. The crown was made of gold. It weighed 34 kilograms. There was a valuable jewel fixed on it. David's men then put the crown on David's head. David also took a lot of valuable things from the city. 
2Samuel12:31 He brought the people out from the city to do hard work for him. He made them cut wood with saws, and use iron tools and axes. He also made them work at the brick ovens. He did the same thing to the people of all the other Ammonite cities. Then David and all his army returned to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel13:1 David's son Absalom had a beautiful sister. Her name was Tamar. After some time, David's son Amnon began to love Tamar very much." 
2Samuel13:2 Amnon was very upset because he loved his sister Tamar so much. He became ill because of this. Tamar had never had sex with any man, so Amnon knew that it would be difficult to get near her." 
2Samuel13:3 Amnon had a friend called Jonadab. He was the son of David's brother, Shimeah. Jonadab was a clever man." 
2Samuel13:4 He said to Amnon, ‘You are the king's son! So why do you seem so sad every morning? Tell me about your trouble.’ Amnon said to him, ‘I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister.’" 
2Samuel13:5 Jonadab told him, ‘Go and lie down on your bed. Pretend that you are ill. Your father will come to see you. Then you can say to him, “Please send my sister Tamar in here to give me something to eat. I will watch her as she prepares the food. Then she can use her own hand to feed me.” ’" 
2Samuel13:6 So Amnon lay down on his bed. He pretended that he was ill. When the king came in to see him, Amnon said to him, ‘Please let my sister Tamar come in here. I want her to cook some little cakes while I watch her. Then she can feed me herself.’" 
2Samuel13:7 David sent a message to Tamar in the palace. He told her, ‘Go to your brother Amnon's house. Prepare some food for him to eat there.’" 
2Samuel13:8 So Tamar went to Amnon's house. He was lying down on his bed. She took some flour and water and she mixed them together. She made the cakes while he watched her. Then she baked them. 
2Samuel13:9 Then she put the cakes on a plate and she put them in front of him. But he refused to eat them. Instead, Amnon said, ‘Everyone must go out and leave me alone here.’ So everyone left him alone with Tamar." 
2Samuel13:10 Then Amnon said to Tamar, ‘Bring the food here into my bedroom. Then you can use your own hand to feed me.’ So Tamar took the cakes that she had made. She brought them to Amnon in his bedroom." 
2Samuel13:11 But when she offered the cakes to him, he took hold of her. He said to her, ‘Come here, my sister! Come into bed with me.’" 
2Samuel13:12 Tamar answered him, ‘Do not do this, my brother! Do not make me ashamed. Nobody in Israel would do such a wicked thing. Do not be so foolish!" 
2Samuel13:13 Think about me. I would have to hide because of my shame. And people would say that you are the worst fool in Israel. No, you should speak to the king. I am sure that he will let you marry me.’" 
2Samuel13:14 But Amnon refused to listen to her. He was stronger than she was. So he took hold of her and he had sex with her. 
2Samuel13:15 After that, Amnon hated Tamar very much. He now hated her more strongly than he had loved her. He said to her, ‘Go away from here!’" 
2Samuel13:16 But Tamar replied, ‘No, I will not go! If you send me away, that would be even worse. It would be more evil than what you have already done to me.’ But Amnon refused to listen to her." 
2Samuel13:17 He called out to his own special servant. He told him, ‘Throw this woman out of my house! Then lock the door after she has gone.’" 
2Samuel13:18 So the servant took her out and then he locked the door. Tamar was wearing a beautiful long dress. All the king's daughters who were not yet married wore beautiful dresses like that. 
2Samuel13:19 Now Tamar put ashes on her head. She tore the beautiful dress that she was wearing. She covered her head with her hands. She wept loudly as she went home. 
2Samuel13:20 When her brother Absalom saw her, he said, ‘Has your brother Amnon done this to you? Now be quiet. Remember that he is your brother. So do not be too upset.’ After that, Tamar lived in her brother Absalom's house. She was sad and lonely." 
2Samuel13:21 When King David heard about what had happened, he was very angry." 
2Samuel13:22 But Absalom would not say anything to Amnon, good or bad. He hated Amnon because he had brought shame on his sister, Tamar." 
2Samuel13:23 Two years later, Absalom's men were cutting the wool from his sheep. They were in Baal Hazor, near to Ephraim's land. Absalom asked all the king's sons to meet him there." 
2Samuel13:24 Then he went to the king and he said, ‘My men have started to cut the wool from my sheep. Please will you and your officers come and join us at this happy time?’" 
2Samuel13:25 King David replied to Absalom, ‘No, my son, we should not all go. It would cause you too much trouble.’ Absalom asked him again, but the king still refused to go. Instead, he asked God to bless Absalom." 
2Samuel13:26 So Absalom said, ‘If you will not come with me, please let my brother Amnon come.’ The king said, ‘Why do you want him to go with you?’" 
2Samuel13:27 But Absalom asked the king more strongly. So the king agreed to send Amnon and all his other sons. 
2Samuel13:28 Absalom then told his servants, ‘When Amnon has drunk a lot of wine I will tell you, “Knock him down!” Then you must kill him immediately. Do not be afraid. I am the one who is commanding you to do this. So be strong and brave.’" 
2Samuel13:29 So Absalom's men killed Amnon, as Absalom had told them to do. Then all the king's other sons got on their mules. They quickly rode away." 
2Samuel13:30 While they were still on the way home, David heard news about what had happened. Someone told him, ‘Absalom has attacked all the king's sons. Not one son is still alive.’" 
2Samuel13:31 The king was very upset. He stood up and he tore his clothes. Then he lay down on the ground. All his servants were standing around him. They had torn their clothes, too." 
2Samuel13:32 But Jonadab, the son of David's brother Shimeah, said, ‘My lord, do not think that they have killed all your sons. Only Amnon is dead. Absalom has decided to do this since Amnon brought shame on his sister Tamar." 
2Samuel13:33 My lord the king, you should not believe the report that all your sons are dead. Only Amnon is dead.’" 
2Samuel13:34 While this was happening, Absalom had run away. There was an officer standing on the wall of Jerusalem to watch. When he looked, he saw a big group of people who were coming from the west. They were coming down the hill on the road from Horonaim. He went to the king and he told him the news." 
2Samuel13:35 Jonadab said to the king, ‘See, the king's sons are coming now, as I said they would.’" 
2Samuel13:36 As he said that, the king's sons arrived. They were weeping loudly. The king and all his servants were also weeping. King David continued to weep for his son Amnon every day." 
2Samuel13:37 Absalom ran away to Ammihud's son, Talmai, the king of Geshur." 
2Samuel13:38 He stayed in Geshur for three years. 
2Samuel13:39 By this time, King David had stopped being so upset about Amnon's death. He wanted very much to see Absalom again." 
2Samuel14:1 Zeruiah's son, Joab, knew how much the king wanted to see Absalom." 
2Samuel14:2 So he sent a message to Tekoa to bring a wise woman from there. He said to her, ‘ Pretend that you are upset because of someone's death. Dress in funeral clothes. Do not use any perfume on your body. You must seem like a woman who has been sad for a long time." 
2Samuel14:3 Then go to the king to speak to him.’ Then Joab told her the words that she should speak to the king. 
2Samuel14:4 So the woman from Tekoa went to the king. She bent her body down low with her face towards the ground. She gave honour to the king. Then she said, ‘Please help me, sir!’" 
2Samuel14:5 The king asked her, ‘What is your trouble?’ She said, ‘My husband is dead, sir, and I am a widow." 
2Samuel14:6 I had two sons. One day, they were fighting in the fields. There was nobody near to stop them. One son knocked down the other son and killed him." 
2Samuel14:7 Now all my relatives have turned against me. They want to take my son from me, because he killed his brother. They say that he must die. That is the punishment that he deserves. But if they do that, I will have no son. My husband will have no descendants, so the name of our family will not continue.’" 
2Samuel14:8 The king said to the woman, ‘Go to your home. I will make sure that your son is safe.’" 
2Samuel14:9 Then the woman said to the king, ‘My lord the king, I pray that nobody will think that you have done anything wrong. They should call me guilty, but not you or your family.’" 
2Samuel14:10 The king replied, ‘If anyone says anything against you, bring him to me. After that, he will not cause you any more trouble.’" 
2Samuel14:11 Then the woman said, ‘Sir, please stop my relative from punishing my son with death. I do not want this son to die as well as my other son. Please promise me in the name of the Lord your God that it will not happen.’ The king replied, ‘As surely as the Lord lives, I promise that nobody will touch even one hair of your son's head.’" 
2Samuel14:12 Then the woman said, ‘Please sir, there is one other thing that I want to tell you.’ King David said, ‘Tell me.’" 
2Samuel14:13 The woman said, ‘I think that you have done a wrong thing like this against God's own people. You have not let your own son return to his home. He still lives in a foreign city. Because of what you have said to me, you show that you yourself are guilty." 
2Samuel14:14 We must all die one day. When that happens, we are like water that is poured on the ground. We cannot pick it up again. But God does not remove our lives from us. Instead, he finds a way to bring us back to him when we have gone far away." 
2Samuel14:15 My lord the king, I have told you this because the people have made me afraid. I thought to myself, “I will speak to the king. I do not deserve it, but perhaps he will do what I ask him to do." 
2Samuel14:16 Perhaps he will listen to me. Perhaps he will save me from the man who wants to destroy both me and my son. That man wants to take away from us the land that God gave to us.” 
2Samuel14:17 Now I can say, “I know that the promise of my lord the king will keep me safe. The king can judge things like an angel of God. He knows what is right and what is wrong.” I pray that the Lord your God will be with you!’" 
2Samuel14:18 Then the king said to the woman, ‘Now I want to ask you a question. You must not hide the truth from me.’ She replied, ‘Ask me anything, sir.’" 
2Samuel14:19 The king asked her, ‘Is it Joab who has told you to do this?’ The woman answered, ‘My lord the king, as surely as you live, I cannot hide the truth from you. Yes, it was your servant Joab who told me what to do. He gave me the words to say." 
2Samuel14:20 He did it because he wanted things to be different. But you, my lord, are as wise as one of God's angels. You know everything that happens in our land.’" 
2Samuel14:21 Then the king spoke to Joab. He said, ‘I have decided to do what you want. Go and bring back the young man Absalom.’" 
2Samuel14:22 Joab bent his body down low with his face towards the ground. He thanked the king. He said, ‘Now I know that you are pleased with me. You have agreed to do what I have asked you to do.’" 
2Samuel14:23 Then Joab went to Geshur. He brought Absalom back to Jerusalem. 
2Samuel14:24 But the king said, ‘Absalom must go to live in his own house. I do not want him to come to see me.’ So Absalom did not go to see the king. Instead, he went to live in his own house." 
2Samuel14:25 Everyone in Israel praised Absalom. They all thought that he was the most handsome man in the whole country. His body was perfect, from head to toe." 
2Samuel14:26 Once every year he cut his hair because it became too heavy. Each time, the hair that he cut off weighed about 2 kilograms." 
2Samuel14:27 Absalom had three sons and one daughter. Her name was Tamar. She was a very beautiful woman. 
2Samuel14:28 Absalom lived in Jerusalem for two years, but he never saw the king." 
2Samuel14:29 Then Absalom sent a message to Joab. He asked Joab to come to him. He wanted Joab to go to the king on his behalf. But Joab refused to come to Absalom. So then Absalom sent another message, but Joab still refused to come." 
2Samuel14:30 Then Absalom said to his servants, ‘Joab has a field that is next to mine. Some barley is growing in it. Go and light a fire there, so that it all burns.’ So Absalom's servants went to Joab's field and they did that." 
2Samuel14:31 Then Joab did go to Absalom's house. He asked Absalom, ‘Why did your servants take fire and burn my field?’" 
2Samuel14:32 Absalom replied, ‘You did not come when I sent messages to you. I wanted you to take a message to the king on my behalf. I wanted to ask the king, “Why have you brought me from Geshur to Jerusalem? It would have been better for me to stay there!” Now I want to go to see the king myself. If he thinks that I am guilty, then he can punish me with death.’" 
2Samuel14:33 So Joab went to the king. He told the king what Absalom had said. King David then sent his men to bring Absalom to him. When Absalom arrived, he bent his body down low in front of the king, with his face towards the ground. The king was happy and he kissed Absalom." 
2Samuel15:1 Some time later, Absalom bought a chariot and some horses. He had 50 men who ran in front of the chariot to give him honour." 
2Samuel15:2 Every day, he got up early in the morning. Then he went to stand at the side of the road near the city's gate. He called out to anyone who was bringing a problem for the king to judge. He would ask them, ‘Which town have you come from?’ Then the man would tell Absalom which tribe of Israel he belonged to." 
2Samuel15:3 Then Absalom would say, ‘I am sure that you are right. You deserve to receive justice. But the king has not given any of his officers authority to listen to you.’" 
2Samuel15:4 Absalom would also say, ‘I think that I should have authority to be a judge in Israel. Then when people have a problem to take to court, they could come to me. I would make sure that they receive justice.’" 
2Samuel15:5 When anyone bent his body down low to give honour to Absalom, Absalom would reach out and pull the man towards him. He would kiss the man." 
2Samuel15:6 Absalom did this to all the Israelites who came to Jerusalem to ask the king for justice. In that way, Absalom turned the people of Israel so that they became faithful to him." 
2Samuel15:7 After four years, Absalom said to the king, ‘Please let me go to Hebron. I need to make a sacrifice to the Lord, as I promised to do." 
2Samuel15:8 When I was living at Geshur with the Arameans, I made this promise: “If the Lord brings me back to live in Jerusalem, I will go to Hebron and I will worship him there.” ’" 
2Samuel15:9 The king said, ‘Yes, you may go.’ So Absalom left Jerusalem and he went to Hebron." 
2Samuel15:10 Then Absalom sent his men to go secretly to all the tribes of Israel. They took this message to the people: ‘When you hear the noise of trumpets, then you must shout, “Absalom has become king in Hebron.” ’" 
2Samuel15:11 Absalom had 200 men who had gone with him from Jerusalem. He had asked them to go with him as his friends. They trusted him and they did not know about his ideas. 
2Samuel15:12 Absalom offered his sacrifices as he had promised to do. But at the same time he sent men to bring Ahithophel from Giloh, where he lived. Ahithophel was King David's advisor. More and more people agreed to join Absalom and turn against David. So Absalom was becoming more powerful." 
2Samuel15:13 Somebody brought this message to David: ‘The Israelites are now faithful to Absalom instead of you.’ 
2Samuel15:14 So David said to the officers who were with him in Jerusalem, ‘We must go! We must run away! If we do not do that, no one will escape from Absalom. Hurry, or he will quickly catch us here. Then he will destroy us and our whole city!’" 
2Samuel15:15 The king's officers answered, ‘Our lord the king, we will do anything that you decide is right.’" 
2Samuel15:16 So the king left home. He took all his servants and family with him. But he left ten of his slave wives to take care of the palace. 
2Samuel15:17 As King David and all his people were leaving, they stopped at the last house on the edge of Jerusalem." 
2Samuel15:18 All his officers and his personal guards, the Kerethites and Pelethites, went on past him. There were also 600 men who had come with him from Gath. All these people were leaving Jerusalem with the king." 
2Samuel15:19 Then the king asked Ittai, who came from Gath, ‘Why are you coming with us? Go back into the city and join with Absalom, the new king. You have come from another country and you live here as a foreigner." 
2Samuel15:20 It seems like only a few days since you arrived here. There is no reason for you to travel with us. I do not even know where we are going! So you should go back. Take your men with you. I pray that the Lord will keep you safe with his faithful love.’ 
2Samuel15:21 But Ittai replied to the king, ‘As surely as the Lord lives and as surely as you live, I promise that I will go with you, sir. Wherever you go, I will be there with you. My lord the king, I will stay with you, even if it brings death.’" 
2Samuel15:22 So David said to Ittai, ‘Go on ahead of me.’ So Ittai, with all his men and their families, went on ahead of David." 
2Samuel15:23 As David and his men left the city, all the people who saw them wept loudly. The king went across the Kidron Valley and his men followed him. They travelled along the road towards the desert." 
2Samuel15:24 Zadok and Abiathar, the priests, were with them. The Levites were also there, and they were carrying God's Covenant Box. They put it down on the ground while all the people left the city. After all the people had passed, they picked it up again." 
2Samuel15:25 Then the king said to Zadok, ‘Take the Covenant Box back into the city. If the Lord is pleased with me, he will bring me back here again. The Lord will let me see the Covenant Box again, as well as his home." 
2Samuel15:26 But if he is not pleased with me, then he must do to me whatever he decides is right.’" 
2Samuel15:27 Then the king said to Zadok the priest, ‘You do not know what will happen. So go safely back into the city, both you and Abiathar. Take your son Ahimaaz and Abiathar's son Jonathan with you." 
2Samuel15:28 I will wait at the place in the desert where we go across the river. I will wait there until I receive a message from you.’ 
2Samuel15:29 So Zadok and Abiathar took the Covenant Box back into Jerusalem. They stayed there. 
2Samuel15:30 But David continued to go up the Mount of Olives. He was weeping as he went. He had covered his head and he was not wearing any shoes on his feet. All the people with him also covered their heads and they wept as they went up the hill. 
2Samuel15:31 Someone told David that his advisor, Ahithophel, had now joined with Absalom and his men. So David prayed, ‘ Lord, please cause Ahithophel to give them foolish advice.’" 
2Samuel15:32 David arrived at the top of the hill. It was a place where people worshipped God. Hushai, who was an Arkite, met him there. He had torn his clothes and he had dirt on his head." 
2Samuel15:33 David said, ‘If you come with me, you will be no help to me." 
2Samuel15:34 Instead, go back into the city. You should say to Absalom, “I accept you as king and I will be your servant. I was once your father's servant, but now I will be your servant.” Then you will be able to speak against Ahithophel's advice." 
2Samuel15:35 The priests, Zadok and Abiathar, will be there with you. Tell them any news that you hear in the king's palace." 
2Samuel15:36 Their two sons, Ahimaaz and Jonathan, are with them. Send them to me to tell me any news that you hear.’" 
2Samuel15:37 So David's friend Hushai arrived at Jerusalem at the same time that Absalom was coming into the city. 
2Samuel16:1 When David had passed beyond the top of the Mount of Olives, he met Mephibosheth's servant Ziba. Ziba was waiting there for him with two donkeys. The donkeys were ready for people to ride them. They also carried 200 loaves of bread, 100 blocks of raisins, 100 blocks of figs and a leather bag of wine." 
2Samuel16:2 The king asked Ziba, ‘Why have you brought all these things?’ Ziba answered, ‘The donkeys are for the king's family to ride. The bread and the fruit are for the young men to eat. The wine will help people who become weak when you travel through the desert.’" 
2Samuel16:3 The king asked, ‘Where is your master's grandson?’ Ziba answered, ‘He is staying in Jerusalem. He thinks that the Israelites will now give back to him his grandfather Saul's kingdom.’" 
2Samuel16:4 Then the king said to Ziba, ‘Everything that Mephibosheth had will now belong to you.’ Ziba said, ‘Thank you, sir. I hope that you will always be pleased with me.’" 
2Samuel16:5 King David and his people arrived near Bahurim town. Gera's son Shimei came out to meet David. He was a relative of Saul. Shimei cursed David in a loud voice as he came towards him. 
2Samuel16:6 He threw stones at David and at the king's officers. There was a big group of people and brave soldiers all around David. 
2Samuel16:7 Shimei said, ‘Go away! Get out of here! You are a murderer, a wicked man!" 
2Samuel16:8 The Lord has punished you because of all the people that you killed from Saul's family. You made yourself king, instead of Saul. But now the Lord has given the kingdom to your son, Absalom. All this trouble has come to you because you are a murderer!’" 
2Samuel16:9 Then Zeruiah's son, Abishai, said to the king, ‘This man is only a useless dog! He must not curse you, my lord the king. I should go and cut off his head!’" 
2Samuel16:10 The king said, ‘No! You sons of Zeruiah should not tell me what to do! Perhaps he is cursing me because the Lord has said to him, “Curse David.” Then we cannot say that he is wrong to curse me.’" 
2Samuel16:11 Then David said to Abishai and to all his officers, ‘My own son is trying to kill me. Now this man from Benjamin's tribe wants to do the same thing. The Lord has told him to do this, so do not stop him cursing me." 
2Samuel16:12 Perhaps the Lord will understand my trouble. He may see how Shimei is cursing me and he may bless me instead.’ 
2Samuel16:13 David and his men continued to walk along the road. Shimei walked along the side of the hill, near the road. As he went, he cursed David and he threw stones and dirt at David and his people." 
2Samuel16:14 When King David and all the people who were with him reached the Jordan River, they were tired and weak. So they rested there." 
2Samuel16:15 So Absalom and all the Israelites who were with him arrived in Jerusalem. Ahithophel came with him. 
2Samuel16:16 David's friend, Hushai the Arkite, had also come there. He went to Absalom and he said to him, ‘May the king live for ever! May the king live for ever!’" 
2Samuel16:17 Absalom asked Hushai, ‘Why have you not been faithful to your friend David? Why did you not go with him?’" 
2Samuel16:18 Hushai replied, ‘No, I will serve you. You are the king that the Lord has chosen. And all these people and the men of Israel have chosen you too. So I will stay with you." 
2Samuel16:19 I served your father when he was king. So now it is surely right for me to serve you, his son.’" 
2Samuel16:20 Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, ‘What do you think that we should do now? What is your advice?’" 
2Samuel16:21 Ahithophel answered, ‘Sleep with your father's slave wives that are here. He left them to take care of his palace. Then all the people in Israel will know that you have insulted your father. They will know that he must now hate you. That will help your own men to be strong.’" 
2Samuel16:22 So they put up a tent for Absalom on the roof of the palace. There he had sex with his father's slave wives, and all the Israelites could see him." 
2Samuel16:23 In those days, people thought that Ahithophel's words were as good as a message from God. So Absalom trusted Ahithophel as his advisor, as David had done too." 
2Samuel17:1 Ahithophel said to Absalom, ‘Please let me choose 12,000 men so that I can go and attack David tonight." 
2Samuel17:2 Now he will be very tired and weak. So when we attack him, he will be frightened. All his soldiers will run away. But I will kill only the king." 
2Samuel17:3 Then I will bring all his army back to you. If we kill this one man that you want to destroy, then all the people will return safely.’" 
2Samuel17:4 This seemed a good idea to Absalom and to all the leaders of Israel. 
2Samuel17:5 But Absalom said, ‘Send Hushai the Arkite to me. We should hear what advice he gives us.’" 
2Samuel17:6 When Hushai arrived, Absalom said to him, ‘This is Ahithophel's advice. What do you think we should do? If you think differently, what advice do you give us?’" 
2Samuel17:7 Hushai replied to Absalom, ‘This time Ahithophel's idea is not good." 
2Samuel17:8 You know your father and his men. They are all strong fighters. They are as dangerous as a mother bear when you take away her babies. Remember that your father has fought many battles. He will not stay all night among his soldiers. 
2Samuel17:9 By this time he is hiding in a cave or in some other safe place. He might attack your soldiers first and kill some of them. When somebody hears the news, he will say, “They have destroyed Absalom's army!”" 
2Samuel17:10 Then your bravest soldiers will be very frightened, even if they are as brave as lions. Everyone in Israel knows that your father is a fighter. And they know that the men with him are brave." 
2Samuel17:11 This is my advice to you. Bring together all the soldiers in Israel. Tell them to come from everywhere in the land, from Dan to Beersheba. There will be as many of them as the sand on the shore of the sea. Then you yourself should lead the whole army into the battle." 
2Samuel17:12 In this way we can attack David in any place that we find him. We will suddenly be all around him, like dew that covers the ground. He and his men will all die. Not even one of them will still be alive." 
2Samuel17:13 If he escapes into a city, we can completely destroy the city. Our soldiers will use ropes to pull it all down into the valley!’" 
2Samuel17:14 Absalom and all Israel's leaders said, ‘Hushai's idea is better than Ahithophel's idea.’ This happened because the Lord did not let the people accept Ahithophel's advice. His idea was a good one, but the Lord had decided to cause trouble for Absalom." 
2Samuel17:15 Then Hushai went to the priests Zadok and Abiathar. He said to them, ‘This was Ahithophel's advice to Absalom and Israel's leaders. But this was my advice." 
2Samuel17:16 So now quickly send a report to David. Warn him that he must not stay tonight at the place in the desert where the road goes through the river. Instead, he must go across the Jordan River immediately, together with all the people who are with him. If not, Absalom and his army may catch them all and destroy them.’" 
2Samuel17:17 Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying at En Rogel. They did not go into the city because they did not want anyone to see them there. So a female servant would take messages to them. Then they would take the messages to King David. 
2Samuel17:18 But this time a young man did see them. He told Absalom where they were. So they quickly left En Rogel and they went to a man's house in Bahurim. He had a well in his yard and they climbed down into it. 
2Samuel17:19 His wife took a lid and she put it over the top of the well. Then she put some grain on it. Nobody knew that the men were hiding there. 
2Samuel17:20 Absalom's men came to the house. They asked the woman, ‘Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?’ The woman answered, ‘They went across the stream.’ Absalom's men looked everywhere for them, but they did not find them. So they returned to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel17:21 After the men had gone, Ahimaaz and Jonathan climbed out of the well. Then they took the news to David. They said to him, ‘You must go across the river immediately. Ahithophel has told Absalom how he can catch you here.’" 
2Samuel17:22 So David and all the people who were with him went across the Jordan River. When dawn came, they had all gone across to the other side." 
2Samuel17:23 Ahithophel realized that Absalom had not agreed to his advice. So he got on his donkey and he went home to his own town. He told his family what he needed to tell them. Then he used a rope to hang himself. He died and his family buried him in his father's grave. 
2Samuel17:24 David arrived at Mahanaim with his men. Absalom and Israel's army went across the Jordan River. 
2Samuel17:25 Joab had been the leader of Israel's army. But now Absalom had chosen Amasa as leader instead of Joab. Amasa's father, Jether, was a descendant of Ishmael. He had married Abigail. She was Nahash's daughter and a sister of Zeruiah, Joab's mother." 
2Samuel17:26 Absalom and Israel's army made their camp in Gilead region. 
2Samuel17:27 When David arrived in Mahanaim, three men came to help him. One man was Nahash's son Shobi. He was from the Ammonites' town, Rabbah. The other men were Ammiel's son Makir, from Lo-Debar, and Barzillai from Rogelim in Gilead." 
2Samuel17:28 They brought beds and pots and cups for David's people. They also brought food for David and his people to eat. There was wheat, barley, flour and cooked grain. They also brought beans, lentils," 
2Samuel17:29 honey, cream, sheep and cheese made from cows' milk. They said, ‘The people have travelled through the desert. So they must be tired, thirsty and hungry.’" 
2Samuel18:1 David brought together all the men who were with him. He chose some officers to lead groups of 1,000 soldiers, and some to lead groups of 100 soldiers." 
2Samuel18:2 David sent his army out in three groups. Joab led one group. Joab's brother Abishai, Zeruiah's son, led another group. Ittai from Gath led the third group. The king said to them all, ‘I myself will go with you into battle.’" 
2Samuel18:3 But the men replied, ‘No, you must not go with us. If we have to run away quickly, it will not matter to Absalom's men. Even if they kill half of our soldiers, it will not seem important to them. What they really want is to kill you. You are worth 10,000 of us. You must stay here in the city. Then you can send help to us if we need it.’" 
2Samuel18:4 The king said to them, ‘I will do whatever you think is good.’ So he stood beside the gate of the city while his army marched out. They marched out in their groups of hundreds and of thousands." 
2Samuel18:5 The king commanded Joab, Abishai and Ittai, ‘Because the young man Absalom is my son, do not hurt him.’ All the soldiers heard David give this command to the three officers." 
2Samuel18:6 David's army marched out to fight Israel's army. They fought the battle in the forest of Ephraim. 
2Samuel18:7 David's soldiers won the fight against Israel's soldiers. Many soldiers died in the battle that day. There were 20,000 dead men." 
2Samuel18:8 They fought the battle everywhere in the forest and around it. The forest itself caused the death of more men than the battle did. 
2Samuel18:9 During the battle, Absalom was riding on his mule and he met some of David's soldiers. His mule carried him under a big oak tree. The tree's branches caught Absalom's hair so that he hung there above the ground. His mule ran off and left him there." 
2Samuel18:10 One of David's men saw what had happened. He told Joab, ‘I have seen Absalom. He is hanging from an oak tree.’" 
2Samuel18:11 Joab said to the man who told him the news, ‘You saw him there, did you? So why did you not kill him? I would have given you ten silver coins and a brave soldier's belt.’" 
2Samuel18:12 But the man replied, ‘I would never hurt the king's son, even for a gift of 1,000 silver coins. We all heard the king give this command to you, Abishai and Ittai. He said, “Keep the young man Absalom safe, because he is my son.”" 
2Samuel18:13 If I had killed Absalom, my own life would be in danger. The king knows everything that happens! You would not have tried to save me from the king's punishment.’" 
2Samuel18:14 Joab said, ‘I cannot stay here while you talk like this.’ So he took three spears and he went to the tree where Absalom was hanging. While Absalom was still alive, Joab pushed the spears into Absalom's heart." 
2Samuel18:15 Then ten of Joab's own guards came around Absalom. They knocked him down and they killed him. 
2Samuel18:16 Then Joab made a sound with his trumpet to stop the battle. So his soldiers stopped chasing after Israel's soldiers. 
2Samuel18:17 They took Absalom's dead body and they threw it into a deep hole in the forest. They made a big heap of stones over the body. All the Israelite soldiers ran back to their homes. 
2Samuel18:18 While Absalom was alive, he had built a tall pillar in the King's Valley. He built it so that people would remember him. He thought, ‘I have no son, so my family's name will not continue.’ He put his own name on the pillar, so people still call it Absalom's Pillar." 
2Samuel18:19 Zadok's son Ahimaaz said to Joab, ‘Let me run to give the king the good news. I will tell him that the Lord has saved him from the power of his enemies.’" 
2Samuel18:20 Joab said, ‘No, it will not be good news for the king. His son is dead. You must not take this news today. Another day there will be good news for you to take to him, but not today.’" 
2Samuel18:21 Then Joab spoke to a servant who came from Ethiopia, ‘Go now to the king. Tell him what you have seen.’ The man bent down in front of Joab and then he ran off with the message." 
2Samuel18:22 Zadok's son Ahimaaz spoke to Joab again. He said, ‘I am not afraid of what may happen to me. Please let me run after the Ethiopian man.’ But Joab replied, ‘Why do you want to go as well? The king will not give you any gift for this news.’" 
2Samuel18:23 Ahimaaz said, ‘But I do want to go, whatever happens.’ So Joab said, ‘So, run after him!’ So Ahimaaz ran fast along a road in the Jordan Valley. He arrived near Mahanaim before the Ethiopian man." 
2Samuel18:24 David was sitting between the two gates of Mahanaim city. A man went up to the top of the wall, on the roof above the gate. He was watching the road. As he looked, he saw a man who was running towards the city. He was running alone." 
2Samuel18:25 So the man on the wall shouted a message to the king, to say what he had seen. The king said, ‘If the man is alone, he is bringing good news.’ The man who was running towards the city came much nearer." 
2Samuel18:26 Then the man on the wall saw another man who was running towards the city. He called down to the guard at the city's gate, ‘Look! There is another man who is running alone!’ The king said, ‘He will bring good news, too.’" 
2Samuel18:27 The man on the wall said, ‘The first man is running like Zadok's son, Ahimaaz.’ The king said, ‘He is a good man. I am sure that he brings good news.’" 
2Samuel18:28 Then Ahimaaz shouted to the king, ‘All is well!’ He bent down low in front of the king, with his face towards the ground. He said, ‘ Praise the Lord your God! He has put your enemies under your power. They turned against you, my lord the king, but they have lost the fight.’" 
2Samuel18:29 The king asked, ‘Is the young man Absalom safe?’ Ahimaaz answered, ‘When Joab sent me, your servant, I saw that many people had come together. There was a lot of noise, but I do not know what was happening.’" 
2Samuel18:30 The king said, ‘Stand over there and wait.’ So Ahimaaz moved away and he waited." 
2Samuel18:31 Then the Ethiopian man arrived. He said, ‘My lord the king, listen to this good news! Today the Lord has helped you to win the fight. He has kept you safe from all the people who turned against you.’" 
2Samuel18:32 The king asked the Ethiopian man, ‘Is the young man Absalom safe?’ The man replied, ‘My lord the king, I hope that your enemies and all those who want to hurt you would be as dead as he is!’" 
2Samuel18:33 The king became very upset. He went upstairs to the room above the gate. He wept loudly. As he went, he cried, ‘My son Absalom! My son, my son Absalom! It would be better if I had died instead of you! Absalom, my son, my son!’" 
2Samuel19:1 Someone told Joab that the king was very sad and he was weeping because Absalom was dead. 
2Samuel19:2 All the people heard the news that the king was very sad about his son's death. King David's army had won the battle, so everyone should have been very happy. But instead, they were all sad." 
2Samuel19:3 The soldiers came very quietly back into Mahanaim city. They came as if they were ashamed that they had run away from the battle. 
2Samuel19:4 The king covered his face and he cried, ‘Absalom, Absalom! My son, my son!’" 
2Samuel19:5 Then Joab went to see the king in his room. He said to the king, ‘Today you have made your men feel ashamed. But the army has saved your life today. We have saved the lives of your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your slave wives." 
2Samuel19:6 You seem to love the people who hate you. And you seem to hate the people who love you! You have shown today that your officers and soldiers are not important to you. It seems that you would be happy if Absalom were still alive, and all the rest of us were dead." 
2Samuel19:7 Now go out and speak to your soldiers. Thank them that they have fought well. If you do not do that, none of your men will remain here tonight. I tell you in the Lord 's name, that will certainly happen. That would bring worse trouble to you than anything that has happened in your whole life.’" 
2Samuel19:8 So the king went out from his room. He went to sit by the city's gate. People heard the news, ‘The king is sitting by the gate.’ So they all came there to listen to him. At this time, the Israelite soldiers had run back to their own homes." 
2Samuel19:9 People in all the Israelite tribes were quarrelling with each other. They were saying, ‘King David saved us from the power of the Philistines and all our other enemies. But now Absalom has chased him out of our land." 
2Samuel19:10 We chose Absalom to be our king, but now he has died in the battle. We should surely go and bring David back to be our king again.’" 
2Samuel19:11 Then King David sent a message to Zadok and Abiathar, the priests. He told them, ‘Go to the leaders of Judah and say to them, “Surely, you should not be the last tribe to bring the king back to his palace? He knows what the people in all Israel are saying about him." 
2Samuel19:12 You are my brothers! I belong to your family. So you should not be the last people to bring me back as your king.” 
2Samuel19:13 Also, say to Amasa, “We belong to the same family. I promise you that I will now make you the leader of my army, instead of Joab. I ask God to punish me if I do not do that for you.” ’" 
2Samuel19:14 Because of this message, all the people of Judah's tribe agreed to serve David as their king. They sent this message to the king: ‘Return to us, together with all your officers.’" 
2Samuel19:15 So the king left Mahanaim to return to Jerusalem. When David arrived at the Jordan River, the people of Judah had come to Gilgal to meet him there. They wanted to help him to go across the river." 
2Samuel19:16 Gera's son, Shimei, came there quickly with the people of Judah to meet King David. He was from Bahurim and he belonged to Benjamin's tribe." 
2Samuel19:17 He brought 1,000 men from his own tribe with him. Ziba, the servant of Saul's family, also came with his 15 sons and 20 servants. They all hurried to the Jordan River to meet the king." 
2Samuel19:18 They went across the river where the water was not deep. They were ready to help the king and his people come across. They were ready to do whatever the king wanted. When Shimei had gone across the Jordan River, he bent down low to the ground in front of the king." 
2Samuel19:19 He said to the king, ‘Please forgive me for my sin. Do not punish me. I insulted you, my lord, on the day when you left Jerusalem. Please forget about what I did." 
2Samuel19:20 I am your servant. I know that I did a bad thing. So I have come to meet you today. From all the descendants of Joseph, I am the first person to come to meet you here, my lord the king.’" 
2Samuel19:21 Then Abishai, Zeruiah's son, said, ‘We should kill Shimei. He cursed you, the Lord 's chosen king, so he deserves to die.’" 
2Samuel19:22 David replied, ‘No! You sons of Zeruiah should not tell me what to do! Have you become my enemy? You should realize that today I have become king over all Israel. So we should not punish anyone with death.’" 
2Samuel19:23 The king made a strong promise to Shimei. He said to Shimei, ‘You will not die because of this.’" 
2Samuel19:24 Mephibosheth, Saul's grandson, also came from Jerusalem to meet the king. Since David had left Jerusalem, Mephibosheth had not washed his feet, cut his beard or washed his clothes." 
2Samuel19:25 When he arrived from Jerusalem to meet the king, David asked him, ‘Why did you not go with me, Mephibosheth?’" 
2Samuel19:26 He said, ‘My lord the king, as you know, I cannot walk properly. So I said to my servant, “Prepare a donkey for me to ride, so that I can leave Jerusalem with the king.” But Ziba, my servant, deceived me." 
2Samuel19:27 And he has told you lies about me. But you are like an angel of God. I know that you will do what you think is right. 
2Samuel19:28 I know that you, my lord the king, would have been right to kill all my grandfather's family. We all deserved that punishment. But instead, you asked me to eat meals at your table. So it would not be right for me to ask you to do anything more for me.’" 
2Samuel19:29 The king said, ‘You have said enough about this. I have decided that you and Ziba will share the fields that belonged to your grandfather, Saul.’" 
2Samuel19:30 Mephibosheth said to the king, ‘That is not important to me. Ziba can take them all. You have returned home safely. That is what makes me happy.’" 
2Samuel19:31 Barzillai, the man from Gilead, came from Rogelim to meet the king at the Jordan River. He wanted to help the king to come across the river and to continue his journey." 
2Samuel19:32 But Barzillai was a very old man, 80 years old. He had taken care of David when David was living in Mahanaim. He had helped David with many gifts, because he was a very rich man." 
2Samuel19:33 King David said to him, ‘Come with me to live in Jerusalem. I will take care of you while you are with me there.’" 
2Samuel19:34 Barzillai answered the king, ‘I will not live many more years. Why should I go to live in Jerusalem with the king?" 
2Samuel19:35 I am already 80 years old. I can no longer tell what is nice or what is bad. I cannot taste what I eat and drink. I can no longer hear people's voices when they sing. I would only cause trouble to you, my lord the king." 
2Samuel19:36 I will come across the river and I will travel a short way with you. But I cannot accept your kind gift. 
2Samuel19:37 Let me return to my own town, sir. Then I will die there. They can bury me near the grave of my father and my mother. Look! Here is my son, Kimham. Let him go with you, my lord the king. Please do for him whatever you think is right.’" 
2Samuel19:38 The king said, ‘Kimham can go with me. I will do for him whatever you think is good. I will also help you in any way that you choose.’" 
2Samuel19:39 So all the people went across the Jordan River with the king. The king kissed Barzillai and he asked God to bless him. Then Barzillai returned to his home. 
2Samuel19:40 The king went across the river to Gilgal. Kimham went with him. All Judah's army and half of Israel's soldiers helped the king to go across the river. 
2Samuel19:41 Then all the men of Israel's tribes came to the king. They complained, ‘Why did our brothers, the men of Judah's tribe, take you for themselves? Why were they the only people who could help the king to go across the Jordan River? They helped you, your family and your soldiers to go across, but we had no part in it.’" 
2Samuel19:42 The men of Judah's tribe replied, ‘We did it because the king belongs to our own family. Do not be angry about it. The king did not pay for the food that we ate. We have not taken any of his things for ourselves.’" 
2Samuel19:43 The men of Israel's tribes replied, ‘In Israel we are ten tribes, and Judah is only one tribe. So he is our king ten times more than he is your king! So why have you tried to insult us? We were the first people to say that we should bring the king back to Jerusalem.’ But the words that the men of Judah spoke were much stronger than the words of the men of Israel." 
2Samuel20:1 There was a wicked man there in Gilgal. His name was Sheba. He was Bicri's son, who belonged to Benjamin's tribe. He made a loud noise with a trumpet and then he shouted, ‘Israelite people, we have nothing to do with Jesse's son, David! We do not belong to his kingdom! So we should all return to our homes.’" 
2Samuel20:2 So the Israelites left David in Gilgal, and they went with Bicri's son, Sheba. But the men of Judah's tribe stayed with David. They helped him on his journey all the way from the Jordan River to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel20:3 David returned to his palace in Jerusalem. Then he took the ten slave wives that he had left there to take care of his palace. Now he made them live in their own house, with guards to keep them safe. He gave them everything that they needed, but he did not sleep with them. They lived there on their own. They lived like widows until they died." 
2Samuel20:4 The king said to Amasa, ‘Bring all the men of Judah's tribe here to me. Three days from now, I will meet with them. You must also be here yourself.’" 
2Samuel20:5 Amasa went to call Judah's men to come, but he did not return in three days." 
2Samuel20:6 Then David said to Abishai, ‘Bicri's son, Sheba, will cause us more trouble than Absalom did. Take my soldiers and chase after him. If you do not catch him, his people will hide in towns with strong walls. Then he will escape from us.’" 
2Samuel20:7 So Abishai took Joab's soldiers, as well as the king's personal guards, the Pelethites and the Kerethites. He and all the king's soldiers marched out from Jerusalem to find Sheba." 
2Samuel20:8 When they arrived at the big rock in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. Joab was wearing his soldier's clothes. He had a long knife that was tied to his belt. As Joab went towards Amasa, the knife fell to the ground." 
2Samuel20:9 Joab said to Amasa, ‘How are you, my brother?’ He took hold of Amasa's beard with his right hand. He pretended that he wanted to kiss him." 
2Samuel20:10 But Amasa did not see the knife in Joab's other hand. Joab pushed the knife into Amasa's stomach. His inside parts poured out onto the ground. He died immediately. Joab did not have to hit him again. Then Joab and his brother Abishai continued to chase after Sheba. 
2Samuel20:11 One of Joab's soldiers stood beside Amasa's dead body. He shouted, ‘If you are fighting for Joab and for King David, you must follow Joab!’" 
2Samuel20:12 Amasa's dead body was lying in the road. His blood was all around it. All the soldiers who came there stopped when they saw the body. So the man pulled Amasa's dead body off the road into a field. He covered it with a cloth. 
2Samuel20:13 After he had removed Amasa's dead body from the road, the soldiers all followed Joab. They continued to chase after Bicri's son, Sheba." 
2Samuel20:14 Sheba travelled through the land of all Israel's tribes. He arrived at Abel Beth Maakah. All the people of Bicri's clan also came to the city. They joined Sheba there. 
2Samuel20:15 Then Joab's soldiers arrived and they started to attack Abel Beth Maakah. They made their camp all around the city. They built heaps of earth against the city's walls. They started to dig holes through the walls to cause them to fall down. 
2Samuel20:16 Then a wise woman stood on the wall and she shouted to them, ‘Listen! Listen to me! Tell Joab to come near so that I can speak to him!’" 
2Samuel20:17 So Joab went towards her. The woman asked him, ‘Are you Joab?’ He answered, ‘Yes, I am.’ She said to him, ‘Please listen to what I have to say.’ He replied, ‘I am listening, so tell me.’" 
2Samuel20:18 Then she said, ‘A long time ago, people said, “If you want an answer to your problem, go to Abel city.” So that is what people did when they had problems." 
2Samuel20:19 The people of this city like to live in peace. We are faithful to our nation, Israel. Have you decided to destroy such an important city in Israel? Why do you want to destroy a city that belongs to the Lord?’" 
2Samuel20:20 Joab answered her, ‘That is stupid! I would never do that! I am not trying to destroy anything." 
2Samuel20:21 That is not what we want. But there is a man in your city whose name is Sheba. He is Bicri's son and he comes from the hill country of Ephraim. He has turned against King David. If you will give me this one man, I will go away from your city. I will not destroy it.’ The woman said to Joab, ‘Wait there! I will throw his head to you from the wall.’" 
2Samuel20:22 Then the woman spoke to all the people in the city. She told them her wise advice. So they cut off Sheba's head and they threw it off the wall to Joab. Then Joab made a loud noise with his trumpet. So his soldiers went away from the city. Each of them went to his own home. Joab returned to King David in Jerusalem. 
2Samuel20:23 Joab was the officer who led all Israel's army. Jehoiada's son Benaiah was the leader of the king's personal guards. 
2Samuel20:24 Adoniram ruled over the men who had to work for the king. Ahilud's son Jehoshaphat wrote a report of everything that the king did. 
2Samuel20:25 Sheva was the royal secretary. Zadok and Abiathar were the priests. 
2Samuel20:26 Ira from Jair was David's special priest. 
2Samuel21:1 While David was king, there was a famine in Israel for three years. So David asked the Lord what had caused this trouble. The Lord said, ‘Saul's family is guilty of murder, because Saul killed many of the Gibeonites.’" 
2Samuel21:2 The Gibeonites were not descendants of Israel. They were the only Amorite people who still lived. The Israelites had promised not to kill them. But Saul thought that he should kill them. He thought that this would help Israel and Judah to rule their land. Now King David told the Gibeonites to come to speak with him. 
2Samuel21:3 He asked them, ‘What can I do to help you? How can I make things right between us? I want you to bring the Lord 's blessing to his people again.’" 
2Samuel21:4 The Gibeonites answered David, ‘We do not want Saul's family to give us money or gold. And it would not be right for us to kill anyone in Israel.’ So David asked them, ‘What do you want me to do for you?’" 
2Samuel21:5 They answered the king, ‘You know that Saul tried to destroy us. That man wanted to kill all of our family who were living in Israel." 
2Samuel21:6 So we want you to give us seven of his male descendants. Then we will kill them. We will hang their bodies at the place where people worship the Lord in Gibeah. That was Saul's town, the man that the Lord had chosen to be king.’ The king said, ‘I will give them to you.’" 
2Samuel21:7 The king did not give Jonathan's son Mephibosheth to them. He was kind to Mephibosheth because of David's promise to Jonathan, Saul's son. David had made that promise in the Lord 's name." 
2Samuel21:8 Instead, the king took Saul's two sons, Armoni and Mephibosheth. Aiah's daughter Rizpah was their mother. He also took the five sons of Saul's daughter Merab. Adriel, the son of Barzillai from Meholath, was their father." 
2Samuel21:9 He gave them to the Gibeonites. The Gibeonites hanged them to die on a hill where people worshipped the Lord. All seven of them died together. That happened at the time when the barley harvest was beginning. 
2Samuel21:10 Aiah's daughter, Rizpah, put sackcloth on a rock and she sat on it. She stayed there to watch her sons' bodies, from the harvest time until the heavy rain came. During that time, she stopped the birds from eating the bodies in the daytime. At night, she kept the wild animals away." 
2Samuel21:11 They told David what Saul's slave wife, Rizpah, had done." 
2Samuel21:12 Then David went to get the bones of Saul and Saul's son Jonathan from the people at Jabesh Gilead. Their men had secretly taken their bodies from the open place in Beth Shan. The Philistines had killed Saul on Mount Gilboa and they had hung their bodies there. 
2Samuel21:13 Now David brought the bones of Saul and Jonathan back from Jabesh Gilead. He also picked up the bones of the seven men that the Gibeonites had killed. 
2Samuel21:14 People buried the bones of Saul and Jonathan in the grave of Saul's father, Kish. The grave was in Zela, in land that belonged to Benjamin's tribe. The king had told them everything that they should do. After they had done all these things, God answered their prayers for their country." 
2Samuel21:15 Now the Philistines had started to attack the Israelites again. David went with his soldiers to fight against the Philistines. He became very tired. 
2Samuel21:16 A descendant of Rapha who was called Ishbi-Benob said that he would kill David. He had a bronze spear that weighed 3½ kilograms and he had a new sword. 
2Samuel21:17 But Zeruiah's son Abishai saved David. Abishai knocked down the Philistine and he killed him. So David's men said very strongly, ‘Our king, you must never again come out with us to fight a battle. You are like Israel's light. We do not want your life to finish.’" 
2Samuel21:18 Some time after that, the Israelites fought a battle against the Philistines at Gob. In that battle, Sibbekai from Hushah killed Saph, a descendant of Rapha." 
2Samuel21:19 In another battle against the Philistines at Gob, Elhanan, the son of Jair from Bethlehem, killed Goliath from Gath. Goliath's spear was very thick and heavy, like a big tree." 
2Samuel21:20 There was another battle at Gath. Another descendant of Rapha fought against the Israelites there. He was a very large man. He had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. 
2Samuel21:21 He shouted to insult the Israelite soldiers. So Jonathan, the son of David's brother Shimeah, killed him." 
2Samuel21:22 Those four Philistines were descendants of Rapha and they lived in Gath. David and his soldiers killed all of them. 
2Samuel22:1 David wrote this song when the Lord saved him from the power of his enemies when Saul was king. 
2Samuel22:2 This is what he sang: ‘The Lord keeps me safe. He is my great rock and my strong place. 
2Samuel22:3 My God is my high rock. I run to him to hide and be safe. He keeps me safe like a soldier's shield. He is the strong place where I can hide safely. God, you have saved me from men who want to attack me." 
2Samuel22:4 I praise the Lord because he deserves it! When I called to him for help, he saved me from my enemies." 
2Samuel22:5 Death was near enough to catch me! Danger was like a river that wanted to drown me. 
2Samuel22:6 Death was tying me up with ropes, to pull me into the deep hole of the grave." 
2Samuel22:7 In my trouble I prayed to the Lord. I called to my God to help me. He heard my voice from his home in heaven. My prayer reached his ears. 
2Samuel22:8 Then the earth moved and it shook. Even the sky shook, because God was angry." 
2Samuel22:9 He breathed out smoke from his nose. Fire and hot coals came out from his mouth, to destroy his enemies." 
2Samuel22:10 God caused the sky to bend as he came down. Dark clouds were under his feet. 
2Samuel22:11 He sat on a cherub and he flew. He flew like the wind. 
2Samuel22:12 God put darkness all around him. He hid himself under dark clouds that bring rain. 
2Samuel22:13 Bright light went in front of him. There was lightning like hot coals! 
2Samuel22:14 The Lord sent thunder from the sky. People everywhere heard the voice of the Most High God. 
2Samuel22:15 The Lord shot arrows of lightning. He caused his enemies to run away. 
2Samuel22:16 When the Lord shouted against his enemies, even the bottom of the deep sea appeared. People could see the deepest places of the earth, when he breathed out in anger." 
2Samuel22:17 The Lord reached down to me from above. He took hold of me and he pulled me up out of the deep water. 
2Samuel22:18 Yes, he saved me from my powerful enemies. The people who hated me were too strong for me, but the Lord saved me from their power." 
2Samuel22:19 They attacked me when I was in trouble, but the Lord helped me." 
2Samuel22:20 He led me out to an open place where I would be safe. He saved me because I made him happy. 
2Samuel22:21 The Lord was kind to me because I do things that please him. He blesses me because I am not guilty of bad things. 
2Samuel22:22 I have obeyed the Lord 's commands. I have not turned against my God. 
2Samuel22:23 I understand all his rules, and I do not refuse to obey them." 
2Samuel22:24 He knows that I have done nothing that is wrong. I have kept away from any sin. 
2Samuel22:25 The Lord was kind to me, because I did good things. He sees that I am not guilty." 
2Samuel22:26 Lord, if people are faithful to you, then you are faithful to them. If people do nothing that is bad, they can trust you to do nothing bad to them." 
2Samuel22:27 If people keep themselves pure, they can trust you to do only good things. But if people are wicked, you turn against them." 
2Samuel22:28 You save people who are humble. But if people are proud, you cause them to fall." 
2Samuel22:29 Lord, you make my lamp burn brightly. You are my light in the dark." 
2Samuel22:30 You make me strong, so that I can chase a whole army! With the help of my God, I can climb over any high wall." 
2Samuel22:31 God's way is perfect. The Lord 's promises are always true. He keeps safe everyone who goes to him for help, like a shield that keeps a soldier safe." 
2Samuel22:32 We know that the Lord is God, and no one else. Only our God can keep us safe, like a strong rock!" 
2Samuel22:33 It is God who makes me strong. He shows me the safe way through my life. 
2Samuel22:34 He makes my feet stand strongly on the ground. Like a deer, I can stand on high hills and not fall." 
2Samuel22:35 He teaches me how to fight in war. He makes my arms strong to shoot arrows from a metal bow. 
2Samuel22:36 You keep me safe in the battle, like a shield. Your kind help has made me great." 
2Samuel22:37 You have helped me to move safely, so that my feet do not slip." 
2Samuel22:38 I ran after my enemies and I destroyed them. I did not turn back until I had killed them. 
2Samuel22:39 I destroyed them completely. I knocked them down to the ground. They could not get up again. They fell under my feet. 
2Samuel22:40 You have made me strong to fight battles so that I win against my enemies. 
2Samuel22:41 You caused my enemies to turn their backs, and they ran away from me. I destroyed those who hate me." 
2Samuel22:42 They called out for help, but nobody was there to save them. They called to the Lord, but he did not answer them." 
2Samuel22:43 I beat them until they became like dust. I walked over them, like dirt that lies on the streets." 
2Samuel22:44 You have saved me when my people were attacking me. You have made me a ruler of other nations. People that I did not know before now serve me as their ruler. 
2Samuel22:45 Foreign people cannot stand against me, because they are afraid. When they hear about me, they choose to obey me." 
2Samuel22:46 They are not brave enough to fight me. They shake with fear as they leave their strong cities. 
2Samuel22:47 The Lord is alive! He is my strong Rock! Everyone should praise him! He rules as king! He is the strong God who saves me. 
2Samuel22:48 He is the true God who punishes my enemies. He makes the nations obey me. 
2Samuel22:49 He is the one who saves me from my enemies. Yes, God, you give me power to win against those who attack me. You keep me safe from angry and cruel men." 
2Samuel22:50 Lord, I will thank you, so that all the nations know about you. I will sing to praise your name." 
2Samuel22:51 Yes, the Lord gives power to me, David, his king. He gives me great strength to win against my enemies. I am the special king that he has chosen. He will continue to be kind to me and to my descendants for ever.’" 
2Samuel23:1 These are David's last words. The God that Jacob worshipped made Jesse's son David great. God chose him to rule Israel as king. He also wrote beautiful songs for the Israelites. This is David's message: 
2Samuel23:2 ‘The Spirit of the Lord gives me his message. I speak what he tells me to say. 
2Samuel23:3 Israel's God has spoken. The one who keeps Israel safe said to me, “A king should rule over people in a way that is right and fair. He should show that he respects and obeys God." 
2Samuel23:4 A king who rules like that is like the light of the sun at dawn. He is like the sky in the morning when it has no clouds. He is like bright sun after rain, that helps the grass to grow strongly.”" 
2Samuel23:5 That is how God will bless my descendants. He has made a promise to me that will continue for ever. It is a strong promise that will never change. I know that he will always help me. He will do for me everything that I hope for. 
2Samuel23:6 But God will remove all wicked people. He will throw them away like weeds. They are like thorn bushes that you cannot pull out with your hands. 
2Samuel23:7 You need an iron tool or a spear to remove them. Then you burn them completely in a fire.’ 
2Samuel23:8 These are the names of David's bravest soldiers: Josheb-Basshebeth was the leader of the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’. He belonged to Tahkemon's clan. He used his spear to fight against 800 men in one battle and he killed them all. 
2Samuel23:9 Another of the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’ was Dodai's son, Eleazar. He belonged to Ahoah's clan. He was with David at Pas-Dammim when they insulted the Philistine soldiers before a battle. The Israelite soldiers ran away from the fight," 
2Samuel23:10 but Eleazar stood there. He knocked down the Philistine soldiers until his hand became tired. It became fixed to his sword. On that day, the Lord caused him to win a great battle. When the other Israelite soldiers returned to help him, they took things from the dead Philistines. That was the only thing left for them to do." 
2Samuel23:11 The third of the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’ was Shammah, the son of Agee, who belonged to Harar's clan. The Philistine soldiers had come together in a field of beans. The Israelite soldiers ran away from them." 
2Samuel23:12 But Shammah stood in the middle of the field to stop the Philistines taking it for themselves. He killed the Philistines. The Lord caused him to win a great battle. 
2Samuel23:13 At the time of the harvest, three of David's 30 bravest soldiers went to be with David near Adullam. He was hiding there in a cave. A group of Philistine soldiers had made their camp in Rephaim Valley." 
2Samuel23:14 David was in his strong safe place. A group of Philistine soldiers had made their home in Bethlehem. 
2Samuel23:15 David was very thirsty. He said, ‘I want someone to bring water from the well near Bethlehem's gate for me to drink.’" 
2Samuel23:16 So the three brave soldiers fought through the Philistine camp and they reached Bethlehem's gate. They took some water from the well there and they carried it back to David. But he refused to drink it. He poured it on the ground as an offering to the Lord. 
2Samuel23:17 He said, ‘ Lord, it is not right for me to drink this water. It would seem like the blood of the men who went to get it for me. The Philistines might have killed them on the way.’ So David refused to drink it. Those were some of the great things that the three brave soldiers did." 
2Samuel23:18 Abishai was the leader of David's 30 great soldiers. He was the brother of Zeruiah's son Joab. One time, he used his spear to fight 300 men and he killed them all. So he became as famous as the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’." 
2Samuel23:19 He was not one of the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’ but he received more honour than the other 30 great soldiers. So he became their leader. 
2Samuel23:20 Jehoiada's son, Benaiah, was also one of David's brave soldiers. He came from Kabzeel and he did many great things. He killed two of Moab's best soldiers. He also went down into a deep hole to kill a lion when snow was on the ground." 
2Samuel23:21 Benaiah also killed a great Egyptian man who held a spear. Benaiah attacked him with a heavy stick. He took the spear from the Egyptian's hand and he used it to kill him. 
2Samuel23:22 Those were some things that Jehoiada's son Benaiah did. He became as famous as the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’. 
2Samuel23:23 He received more honour than the other 30 great soldiers, but he did not belong to the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’. David made him the leader of his own special soldiers who were his guards." 
2Samuel23:24 These men were among David's 30 Great Soldiers: Joab's brother Asahel, Elhanan, Dodo's son, from Bethlehem," 
2Samuel23:25 Shammah and Elika, from Harod's clan," 
2Samuel23:26 Helez, from Pelet, Ira, Ikkesh's son, from Tekoa," 
2Samuel23:27 Abiezer, from Anathoth, Mebunnai, from Hushah's clan," 
2Samuel23:28 Zalmon, from Ahoah's clan, Maharai, from Netophah," 
2Samuel23:29 Heleb, Baanah's son, from Netophah, Ittai, Ribai's son, from Gibeah in the land that belonged to Benjamin's tribe," 
2Samuel23:30 Benaiah, from Pirathon, Hiddai, from the valleys near Gaash," 
2Samuel23:31 Abi-Albon from Arabah's clan, Azmaveth, from Bahurim," 
2Samuel23:32 Eliahba, from Shaalbon, Jashen's sons, Jonathan," 
2Samuel23:33 Shammah's son, from Harar, Ahiam, Sharar's son, from Harar," 
2Samuel23:34 Eliphelet, Ahasbai's son, from Maakah, Eliam, Ahithophel's son, from Giloh," 
2Samuel23:35 Hezro, from Carmel, Paarai, from Arba," 
2Samuel23:36 Igal, Nathan's son, from Zobah, Bani, who belonged to Gad's tribe," 
2Samuel23:37 Zelek, from Ammon, Naharai, from Beeroth (he carried Joab's weapons)," 
2Samuel23:38 Ira and Gareb, from Jattir," 
2Samuel23:39 and Uriah the Hittite. There were 37 Great Soldiers if you count them all. 
2Samuel24:1 The Lord again became angry with the Israelites. So he caused David to bring trouble to them. He said to David, ‘Send men to count the people in Israel and Judah.’" 
2Samuel24:2 So the king said to Joab, the leader of his army, ‘Go from Dan to Beersheba, through all the tribes of Israel. Count all the men who can fight. I want to know how many men there are.’" 
2Samuel24:3 But Joab said to the king, ‘I pray that the Lord your God will make your army bigger and bigger. May it grow 100 times while you are alive to see it! But, my lord the king, why do you want to do this?’" 
2Samuel24:4 But Joab and his officers had to obey the king's command. So Joab and the officers of the army went out to count the number of people in Israel. 
2Samuel24:5 They went across the Jordan River. They made their first camp in a valley, on the south side of Aroer. Then they went through Gad's land and they reached Jazer." 
2Samuel24:6 They went from there to Gilead. Then they went to Kadesh in the land of the Hittites. Then they went to Dan and they continued west to Sidon. 
2Samuel24:7 Then they went south to Tyre, a strong city with walls around it. They went to all the towns of the Hivites and the Canaanites. Then they arrived at Beersheba in the south part of Judah." 
2Samuel24:8 In that way, they travelled through the whole country. After nine months and 20 days they returned to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel24:9 Joab reported to the king about the number of soldiers who could fight. There were 800,000 men in Israel who could use a sword to fight. There were also 500,000 soldiers in Judah." 
2Samuel24:10 David had counted the men who were able to fight in his army. But now he was sorry that he had done it. He said to the Lord, ‘What I have done was a great sin. Please forgive me, Lord. I have done a foolish thing.’" 
2Samuel24:11 While David slept that night, the Lord gave a message to Gad, David's prophet." 
2Samuel24:12 The Lord told him, ‘Go and give my message to David: “There are three ways that I could punish you. You must choose one of them, and that is what I will do to punish you.” ’" 
2Samuel24:13 So when David woke up, Gad went to him and he said, ‘You may choose to have three years when there will be a famine in the whole country. Or you may choose to have three months when your enemies are chasing after you. Or you may choose to have three days of very bad disease in the whole country. Now think carefully and decide. I will take your answer to God, who sent me with this message.’" 
2Samuel24:14 David said to Gad, ‘I am very upset. I do not want men to punish me. The Lord is kind and he forgives people. So it would be better for him to punish me.’" 
2Samuel24:15 So, from that morning, the Lord caused a bad disease to kill people in Israel. It continued for three days, as the Lord had said. 70,000 Israelite men died in that time, in the whole country, from Dan to Beersheba." 
2Samuel24:16 The Lord 's angel was ready to destroy Jerusalem. But the Lord decided to stop the trouble that he was causing for the people. He said to the angel who was killing the people, ‘That is enough. Stop what you are doing!’ When the Lord said that, his angel was standing near the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite." 
2Samuel24:17 David saw the angel who was killing the people. So he said to the Lord, ‘I am the person who has done an evil thing. These people have followed me like sheep that follow a shepherd. They have not done anything wrong. You should only punish me and my family.’" 
2Samuel24:18 That day, Gad went to David. He said to David, ‘Go up to the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite. Build an altar there to worship the Lord.’" 
2Samuel24:19 So David obeyed the Lord 's message that Gad had spoken to him. 
2Samuel24:20 When Araunah looked, he saw the king and his officers. They were coming towards him. So he went out and he bent down low in front of the king, with his face towards the ground." 
2Samuel24:21 Araunah said, ‘My lord the king, why have you come here to me, your servant?’ David replied, ‘I have come to buy your threshing floor from you. I want to build an altar here to worship the Lord. Then he will stop this bad disease from killing the people.’" 
2Samuel24:22 Araunah said to David, ‘My lord the king, take anything that you would like to offer to the Lord. You can take these oxen to offer as sacrifices. You can use the wood from these tools and yokes to make a fire." 
2Samuel24:23 I will give all these things to you sir, my lord the king.’ Araunah also said to the king, ‘I pray that the Lord your God will accept your offerings.’" 
2Samuel24:24 But the king said to Araunah, ‘No, I must pay you for it. I will not burn as an offering to the Lord my God any sacrifice that costs me nothing.’ So David bought Araunah's threshing floor and his oxen for 50 silver coins." 
2Samuel24:25 Then he built an altar there to worship the Lord. He made burnt offerings and friendship offerings on the altar. Then the Lord answered David's prayer. The disease stopped killing people in Israel. 
1Kings1:1 King David was now a very old man. He could not stay warm, even when people put blankets over him." 
1Kings1:2 So his servants said to him, ‘We will look for a young woman who has never had sex, for you, our master the king. She can take care of you and she can be your nurse. She can also sleep beside you, so that our master the king will be warm.’" 
1Kings1:3 So they looked through all the land of Israel for a beautiful young woman. They chose Abishag, who lived in Shunem. They brought her to the king." 
1Kings1:4 She was very beautiful. She took care of the king as his servant. But the king did not have sex with her. 
1Kings1:5 At that time, David's son Adonijah, was telling everyone, ‘I will become the next king.’ He got for himself chariots and men who would ride on horses. He also had 50 men to run in front of him as his guards. Haggith was Adonijah's mother." 
1Kings1:6 His father, David, had never warned him when he did something wrong. He never asked Adonijah, ‘Why are you doing that?’ Adonijah was also very handsome. He was born after Absalom as David's next son." 
1Kings1:7 Adonijah spoke with Zeruiah's son Joab and with Abiathar, the priest. They said that they would help Adonijah." 
1Kings1:8 But these people did not join Adonijah's group: Zadok the priest, Jehoiada's son Benaiah, Nathan the prophet, Shimei and Rei. David's own special soldiers did not join Adonijah either." 
1Kings1:9 Then Adonijah went to the Stone of Zoheleth that was near En Rogel. He killed sheep, cows and fat calves as sacrifices there. He asked these people to join him: all his brothers, who were King David's sons, all the men of Judah who were the king's officers." 
1Kings1:10 But he did not ask these people to come: Nathan the prophet, Benaiah, David's own special soldiers, his brother Solomon." 
1Kings1:11 Nathan said to Bathsheba, Solomon's mother, ‘Have you heard about the things that Haggith's son Adonijah is doing? He has become king, but our master, David, does not know about it." 
1Kings1:12 Please accept my advice so that you can save your life and the life of Solomon, your son." 
1Kings1:13 Go to King David and say to him, “My master the king, do you remember your strong promise to me? You told me that my son Solomon would certainly become king after you. You said that he would sit on your throne. So why has Adonijah now become king?”" 
1Kings1:14 While you are still talking to the king, I will come in. I will say that your report is true.’" 
1Kings1:15 So Bathsheba went to see the king in his bedroom. The king was very old. Abishag, the young woman from Shunem, was taking care of him." 
1Kings1:16 Bathsheba bent down low in front of the king. The king asked her, ‘What do you want?’" 
1Kings1:17 She replied, ‘My master, you made a strong promise to me in the name of the Lord your God. You said to me, “Your son Solomon will become king after me. He will sit on my throne.”" 
1Kings1:18 But see what has happened! Adonijah has become king. But, my master the king, you do not even know about it!" 
1Kings1:19 Adonijah has killed many cows, fat calves and sheep as sacrifices. He has asked all the king's sons, Abiathar the priest and Joab the leader of the army to join him. But he did not ask your servant Solomon to come." 
1Kings1:20 My master the king, everyone in Israel is waiting for you to speak. You must tell them who you have chosen to sit on the throne after you." 
1Kings1:21 If you do not decide this now, there will be trouble for me and my son Solomon. Soon after they bury you in the grave of your ancestors, they will punish us as bad people.’" 
1Kings1:22 While Bathsheba was saying this to the king, Nathan the prophet arrived." 
1Kings1:23 The king's servants told him, ‘Nathan the prophet is here.’ So Nathan went in to the king's bedroom. He bent low with his face towards the ground." 
1Kings1:24 Nathan said, ‘My master the king, have you decided that Adonijah will become king after you? Have you said that he will sit on your throne?" 
1Kings1:25 Today Adonijah has killed many cows, fat calves and sheep as sacrifices. He has asked all the king's sons, the leaders of the army and Abiathar the priest to join with him. Even now, they are having a big feast with him. They are saying, “May King Adonijah live for a long time!”" 
1Kings1:26 But he did not ask me, your servant, to join him. He did not ask Zadok the priest, Jehoiada's son Benaiah, or your servant Solomon." 
1Kings1:27 Has my master the king decided this, but you have not told us, your servants? We must know who will sit on your throne to rule as king after you.’" 
1Kings1:28 King David answered Nathan, ‘Send Bathsheba to me!’ So Bathsheba came and she stood in front of the king." 
1Kings1:29 Then the king made a strong promise. He said, ‘The Lord has saved me from every kind of trouble. I promise this, as surely as the Lord lives!" 
1Kings1:30 I will certainly do what I already promised to you in the name of the Lord, Israel's God. Your son Solomon will become king after me. He will sit on my throne to rule.’" 
1Kings1:31 Then Bathsheba bent down low with her face towards the ground. She said, ‘I pray that my master King David will live for ever!’" 
1Kings1:32 King David said, ‘Send to me Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet and Jehoiada's son Benaiah.’ So they came to the king." 
1Kings1:33 The king said to them, ‘Take my officers with you and put my son Solomon on my own mule. Then lead him down to Gihon, as he rides on the mule." 
1Kings1:34 There, Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet can anoint him to be king over Israel. Make a loud noise with a trumpet and shout, “May King Solomon live for a long time!”" 
1Kings1:35 After that, you must follow him back here. He will sit on my throne as king instead of me. I have chosen him to be ruler over all Israel and Judah.’" 
1Kings1:36 Jehoiada's son Benaiah answered the king, ‘ Amen! I agree! I pray that the Lord will cause it to happen! He is the God that my master the king serves." 
1Kings1:37 The Lord has helped you, my master the king. We pray that he will also be with Solomon. We pray that he will make Solomon's kingdom even greater than the kingdom of my master, King David!’" 
1Kings1:38 So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet and Jehoiada's son Benaiah went to Solomon. David's own personal guards, the Kerethites and the Pelethites, went with them. They put Solomon on King David's mule and they led him to Gihon." 
1Kings1:39 Zadok the priest filled a horn with special olive oil from the holy tent. Then he poured it on Solomon to anoint him as king. Then they made a loud noise with a trumpet. All the people shouted, ‘May King Solomon live for a long time!’" 
1Kings1:40 Then all the people followed Solomon up into Jerusalem. They made music with flutes and they shouted with joy. The noise caused the ground to shake! 
1Kings1:41 Adonijah and all the people who were with him heard the noise. They had just finished eating their feast together. When Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he asked, ‘Why is there all that noise in the city?’" 
1Kings1:42 While Joab was still speaking, Jonathan, the son of Abiathar the priest, arrived. Adonijah said to him, ‘Come in! You are an honest man, so I am sure that you are bringing good news.’" 
1Kings1:43 Jonathan replied to Adonijah, ‘No, it is not good news! Our master King David has made Solomon king!" 
1Kings1:44 He sent these people to put Solomon onto the king's mule: Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Jehoiada's son Benaiah, and the king's personal guards. They took Solomon to Gihon." 
1Kings1:45 Then Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anointed Solomon at Gihon to become king. They have taken him from there into the city with happy shouts. People are shouting everywhere. That is the noise that you can hear. 
1Kings1:46 So Solomon now sits on the king's throne. 
1Kings1:47 The king's officers have told our master King David that he has done a good thing. They have said to him, “We pray that your God will make Solomon even more famous than you. We pray that his kingdom will be greater than your kingdom.” After they said that, the king bent his head down as he lay on his bed." 
1Kings1:48 He said, “We should praise the Lord, Israel's God. He deserves this, because he has chosen one of my sons to become king after me. The Lord has let me see this happen.” ’" 
1Kings1:49 When all the people with Adonijah heard Jonathan's report, they were very afraid. They got up from the feast and they ran away in different directions." 
1Kings1:50 But Adonijah was afraid of what Solomon would do to punish him. So he ran to the holy tent. He took hold of the horns of the altar there. 
1Kings1:51 Someone told Solomon, ‘Adonijah is afraid of you. He has taken hold of the horns of the altar. He says, “I want King Solomon to promise me today that he will not punish me with death. I am his servant.” ’" 
1Kings1:52 Solomon said, ‘If he serves me faithfully, I will not hurt him at all. But if he turns against me, he will die.’" 
1Kings1:53 Then King Solomon sent men to the holy tent to bring Adonijah down from the altar. So Adonijah came. He bent down low to respect King Solomon. Solomon said to him, ‘Go to your home.’" 
1Kings2:1 David knew that he would soon die. So this is what he said to his son Solomon: 
1Kings2:2 ‘Soon I will die, as everyone must die one day. Be strong and brave, as a man should be." 
1Kings2:3 Do what the Lord your God tells you to do. Live in a way that pleases him. Obey his rules, commands and laws that Moses has written down in his books of God's Law. Then everything that you do will be successful, wherever you go." 
1Kings2:4 The Lord will also do what he has promised me that he will do. He promised this to me: “Your descendants must be careful in how they live. They must serve me faithfully with all their mind and strength. If they do that, one of your descendants will always rule Israel as king.”" 
1Kings2:5 Do not forget what Zeruiah's son Joab did to me. He killed the two leaders of Israel's armies, Ner's son Abner and Jether's son Amasa. Joab killed them as if they were his enemies in a war. But there was no war. So he is guilty of their deaths when they had done nothing wrong. Their blood is on his belt and on his shoes." 
1Kings2:6 So you should punish him in a way that you think is right. Do not let him die in peace as an old man. 
1Kings2:7 Be kind to the sons of Barzillai, who lived in Gilead. Let them eat meals at your table. Help them, because they helped me when I was running away from your brother Absalom." 
1Kings2:8 Remember that Shimei is still there to give you trouble. He is the son of Gera who came from Bahurim, and he belonged to Benjamin's tribe. When I went to Mahanaim, he prayed that terrible things would happen to me. But when he came to meet me at the Jordan River, I made a promise to him. I promised him in the Lord 's name that I would not punish him with death." 
1Kings2:9 But remember that he is guilty! You are a wise man, so you will know what to do to him. Even if he is an old man, make sure that he has a violent death.’" 
1Kings2:10 Then David died. They buried him in the City of David. 
1Kings2:11 David had ruled Israel as king for 40 years. He ruled for seven years in Hebron. Then he ruled for 33 years in Jerusalem. 
1Kings2:12 So Solomon ruled as king on the throne of his father David. His kingdom became strong. 
1Kings2:13 Haggith's son Adonijah visited Bathsheba, Solomon's mother. She asked him, ‘Do you come in peace?’ He answered, ‘Yes, I come in peace.’" 
1Kings2:14 Then he said, ‘I want to say something to you.’ She replied, ‘Tell me.’" 
1Kings2:15 Adonijah said, ‘You know that the kingdom should belong to me. All the Israelite people thought that I should be their king. But everything changed, and now my brother is the king instead of me. The Lord decided that my brother should be king." 
1Kings2:16 Now I have one thing to ask you. Please do not refuse me.’ Bathsheba replied, ‘Tell me.’" 
1Kings2:17 So Adonijah said, ‘Please ask King Solomon to give me Abishag, the girl from Shunem, to be my wife. He will do it if you ask him.’" 
1Kings2:18 Bathsheba said, ‘I will speak to the king on your behalf.’" 
1Kings2:19 So Bathsheba went to King Solomon, to speak on behalf of Adonijah. The king stood up to meet her. He bent his head down to respect her. Then he sat on his throne. He commanded his servants to bring another throne for his mother. So she sat down at his right side." 
1Kings2:20 She said, ‘I have one small thing to ask you. Please do not refuse to do it for me.’ The king said to her, ‘Ask me, mother! I will not refuse you!’" 
1Kings2:21 So she said, ‘Please let your brother Adonijah marry Abishag, the girl from Shunem.’" 
1Kings2:22 But King Solomon said to his mother, ‘You are asking me to give Abishag to Adonijah as his wife! You should also ask me to give my kingdom to him, my older brother! That would be the same thing. Then he would rule together with Abiathar the priest and Zeruiah's son Joab!’" 
1Kings2:23 Then King Solomon made this strong promise in the Lord 's name. He said, ‘Because Adonijah has asked to have Abishag as his wife, I will certainly punish him with death. If I do not do that, I pray that God will punish me instead!" 
1Kings2:24 As surely as the Lord lives, Adonijah must die today. The Lord has done everything that he promised to me. He has made me strong so that now I rule on the throne of my father David. And my descendants will continue to rule as kings after me.’" 
1Kings2:25 So King Solomon commanded Jehoiada's son Benaiah to kill Adonijah. He punished Adonijah with death. 
1Kings2:26 Then the king said to Abiathar the priest, ‘Go back to your fields in Anathoth. You also deserve to die. But I will not kill you now, because you served my father David. You carried the Covenant Box of the Almighty Lord when David was king. Also, the trouble that happened to my father happened to you too.’" 
1Kings2:27 Solomon sent Abiathar away so that he was no longer a priest who served the Lord. That was the punishment that the Lord had said would happen to Eli's family. So what the Lord had promised at Shiloh now happened. 
1Kings2:28 When Adonijah had tried to become king, Joab had joined with him. (But he had not joined with Absalom.) Joab heard the news about what had happened to Adonijah and Abiathar. So he hurried to the Lord 's holy tent. He took hold of the horns of the altar there." 
1Kings2:29 King Solomon heard that Joab had gone to the altar in the Lord 's holy tent. He commanded Jehoiada's son Benaiah, ‘Go there! Knock Joab down to kill him!’" 
1Kings2:30 So Benaiah went to the Lord 's holy tent. When he arrived there, he said to Joab, ‘The king says, “Come out!” ’ But Joab answered, ‘No! I will die here!’ So Benaiah sent a message to tell the king what Joab had said." 
1Kings2:31 The king replied, ‘Do as Joab said. Kill him there and bury him. He has killed people who did not deserve to die. Punish Joab with death. Then I and my father's family will no longer be guilty for the cruel murders that he has done." 
1Kings2:32 The Lord will now punish him because of the murders that he did. He used his sword to attack and kill two men, but he did not tell my father David about it. He murdered Ner's son Abner, the leader of Israel's army. He also murdered Jether's son Amasa, the leader of Judah's army. Both those men were better and more honest than Joab was." 
1Kings2:33 Joab and his descendants will always receive the punishment for those murders. But the Lord will cause David's descendants, his family and his kingdom to enjoy peace always.’" 
1Kings2:34 So Jehoiada's son Benaiah went to the holy tent and he punished Joab with death. They buried Joab at his home in the wilderness. 
1Kings2:35 The king chose Benaiah to be the leader of the army instead of Joab. The king also chose Zadok to be the priest instead of Abiathar. 
1Kings2:36 Then the king told Shimei to come to him. He said to Shimei, ‘Build a house for yourself here in Jerusalem. Live in it all the time. Never leave to go anywhere else." 
1Kings2:37 If you ever leave the city and you go across the Kidron stream, you will certainly die. That will be a death that you choose for yourself.’" 
1Kings2:38 Shimei said to the king, ‘My lord the king, your words are good. I will do as you have decided.’ So Shimei lived in Jerusalem for a long time." 
1Kings2:39 But after three years, two of his slaves ran away. They went to Achish, who was the son of Maakah, the king of Gath. Someone told Shimei, ‘Your slaves are in Gath.’" 
1Kings2:40 So Shimei prepared his donkey and he left home. He went to Achish in Gath to look for his slaves. He found them and he brought them back from Gath. 
1Kings2:41 Someone told Solomon that Shimei had travelled from Jerusalem to Gath and now he had returned. 
1Kings2:42 So the king told Shimei to come to him. He said to Shimei, ‘You made a strong promise to me in the Lord 's name. I am sure that you remember that! I warned you never to leave Jerusalem. I said that if you went anywhere else, you would certainly die. You said to me at that time, “I agree with what you have said.”" 
1Kings2:43 But you have not done what you promised to do in the Lord 's name. You should have obeyed my command.’ 
1Kings2:44 The king also said to Shimei, ‘I know that you remember how you insulted my father David. Now the Lord will punish you because of the evil things that you did." 
1Kings2:45 But the Lord will bless me, King Solomon. David's descendants will continue to serve the Lord as kings for ever.’" 
1Kings2:46 Then the king commanded Jehoiada's son Benaiah to punish Shimei with death. So Benaiah went out and he killed Shimei. So Solomon now ruled the kingdom with complete authority. 
1Kings3:1 Solomon made an agreement with Pharaoh, who was the king of Egypt. Solomon married Pharaoh's daughter. He brought her to live in the City of David. She lived there until Solomon could finish building his own house, the Lord 's temple, and the wall around Jerusalem." 
1Kings3:2 Because there was not yet a temple where people could give honour to the Lord, they offered sacrifices at altars in other places." 
1Kings3:3 Solomon loved the Lord and he obeyed the rules of his father David. But he offered sacrifices and he burned incense at altars in high places. 
1Kings3:4 The king went to Gibeon to offer sacrifices there. That was the place where the most important altar was. Solomon offered burnt offerings a thousand times on the altar there. 
1Kings3:5 One night in Gibeon, the Lord showed himself to Solomon in a dream. God said, ‘Ask me to give you whatever you want.’" 
1Kings3:6 Solomon answered, ‘You always showed your faithful love to your servant, my father David. He served you faithfully as a good, honest man. You have continued to show your faithful love to him even now. You have given him a son to rule as king on his throne." 
1Kings3:7 Lord my God, I am only a young man. I have not learned how to rule well. But you have now made me become king, as my father David was king." 
1Kings3:8 I am here as your servant to lead the people that you have chosen for yourself. It is a great nation and it has too many people to count. 
1Kings3:9 So please give me a wise mind that understands things well. Then I will be able to rule your people properly. I will know the difference between right things and wrong things. I will only be able to rule this great nation of your people if you do that for me.’ 
1Kings3:10 The Lord God was pleased that Solomon had asked for this. 
1Kings3:11 So God said to him, ‘You have not asked me to give you a long life, or to make you very rich. You have not asked me to punish your enemies with death. Instead you have asked for a wise mind so that you can rule well. Because of that, I will give you what you have asked for. Yes, I now give to you a wise mind that understands things well. You will be wiser than anyone who has already lived and wiser than anyone who will live after you." 
1Kings3:12  
1Kings3:13 I will give you even more than this. I will make you rich and famous, even though you did not ask for that. As long as you live, there will be no other king who is greater than you." 
1Kings3:14 And if you serve me faithfully, I will also give you a long life. But you must obey my rules and my commands, as your father David did.’" 
1Kings3:15 Then Solomon woke up. He realized that it was a dream. He returned to Jerusalem and he stood in front of the Lord 's Covenant Box. He offered burnt offerings and peace offerings to God there. Then he gave a feast for all his officers. 
1Kings3:16 Two women who were prostitutes came to meet with the king. They stood in front of him to tell him their problem. 
1Kings3:17 One woman said, ‘My lord, I live in the same house with this woman. I gave birth to a baby while she lived there with me." 
1Kings3:18 Three days later, she also gave birth to a baby. We were alone in the house. Only the two of us were there, no one else." 
1Kings3:19 But in the night, this woman lay on her son and he died." 
1Kings3:20 So she got up during the night and she took my son from my side. I was still asleep. She put my son beside her. She put her dead son beside me. 
1Kings3:21 When I got up in the morning to feed my son, I saw that he was dead! So I looked carefully at him in the morning light. Then I realized that he was not my son. He was not the son that I had given birth to!’" 
1Kings3:22 Then the other woman said, ‘No, that is not true! It is my son who is alive. Your son is dead!’ But the first woman answered, ‘No! The dead baby is your son. My son is alive!’ They continued to argue like that in front of the king." 
1Kings3:23 Then the king said, ‘One of you says, “My son is alive and your son is dead.” But the other one says, “No! Your son is dead and my son is alive.” ’" 
1Kings3:24 So the king said, ‘Bring a sword to me!’ So they brought a sword to the king." 
1Kings3:25 Then the king commanded, ‘Cut the child who is alive into two pieces. Give one piece to one woman and the other piece to the other woman.’" 
1Kings3:26 Then the mother of the child who was alive spoke to the king. She loved her son very much. So she said to the king, ‘My lord, please do not kill the baby! Instead, give him to the other woman.’ But the other woman said, ‘Neither of us should have him. Cut him in two pieces!’" 
1Kings3:27 So King Solomon said, ‘Do not kill the child! Give him to the first woman. She is his mother.’" 
1Kings3:28 Everybody in Israel heard about what the king had decided. So they respected the king's authority. They realized that God had given him wisdom to judge fairly. 
1Kings4:1 King Solomon ruled over all Israel as king. 
1Kings4:2 These were his important officers: Zadok's son Azariah was the priest. 
1Kings4:3 Shisha's sons, Elihoreph and Ahijah, were secretaries. Ahilud's son Jehoshaphat recorded what happened." 
1Kings4:4 Jehoiada's son Benaiah was the leader of the army. Zadok and Abiathar were priests. 
1Kings4:5 Nathan's son Azariah had authority over the 12 officers for each region. Nathan's son Zabud was a priest who gave the king advice. 
1Kings4:6 Ahishar had authority over work in the palace. Abda's son Adoniram had authority over the groups of workers. 
1Kings4:7 Solomon had 12 officers with authority in the regions of Israel. They supplied food for the king and for the people who lived in his palace. Each officer had to supply food to the king for one month in each year. 
1Kings4:8 These are their names: Ben-Hur had authority in Ephraim's hill country. 
1Kings4:9 Ben-Deker had authority in Makaz, Shaalbim, Beth Shemesh and Elon Beth Hanan." 
1Kings4:10 Ben-Hesed had authority in Arubboth. That included Sokoh and all the fields around Hepher. 
1Kings4:11 Ben-Abinadab had authority in Naphoth Dor. He had married Solomon's daughter, Taphath." 
1Kings4:12 Ahilud's son Baana had authority in Taanach and Megiddo, as well as in all of Beth-Shan that is near Zarethan, below Jezreel. He had authority from Beth-Shan to Abel-Meholah and as far as Jokmeam." 
1Kings4:13 Ben-Geber had authority in Ramoth Gilead. That included the villages of Manasseh's son Jair in Gilead. It also included the region of Argob in Bashan with 60 large cities which had strong walls and gates with bronze bars. 
1Kings4:14 Iddo's son had authority in Mahanaim. 
1Kings4:15 Ahimaaz had authority in Naphtali. He had married Solomon's daughter, Basemath." 
1Kings4:16 Hushai's son Baana had authority in Asher and Aloth. 
1Kings4:17 Paruah's son Jehoshaphat had authority in Issachar. 
1Kings4:18 Ela's son Shimei had authority in Benjamin. 
1Kings4:19 Uri's son Geber had authority in Gilead. Gilead was the region where Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, had ruled. There was also one officer who had authority over the whole land." 
1Kings4:20 The people in Judah and Israel were too many to count. There were as many of them as the sand on the shore of the sea. They had enough to eat and to drink and they were happy. 
1Kings4:21 Solomon ruled over all the nations from the Euphrates River to the land of the Philistines, as far as Egypt's border. The people of these kingdoms paid taxes to Solomon. They served him all the days of his life." 
1Kings4:22 This is the food that Solomon and the people in his palace ate each day: 5,000 litres of flour. 10,000 litres of grain." 
1Kings4:23 10 fat calves that they fed with grain. 20 calves that ate grass in the fields. 100 sheep. Many kinds of deer and fat birds. 
1Kings4:24 Solomon ruled all the kingdoms west of the Euphrates River, from Tiphsah as far as Gaza. There was peace in all these places." 
1Kings4:25 While Solomon was alive, Judah and Israel were safe from their enemies. In the whole country, from Dan to Beersheba, every family had a place to live and they could grow food to eat." 
1Kings4:26 Solomon had places to keep 4,000 horses that pulled his chariots. He also had 12,000 horses." 
1Kings4:27 The 12 officers in each region supplied food for King Solomon and for everybody that ate in his palace. Each region supplied food for one month each year so that there was enough for everyone. 
1Kings4:28 Each officer also supplied barley and straw for the king's horses. They took the right amount to the different places where the horses lived. 
1Kings4:29 God gave Solomon wisdom so that he understood things well. He knew about everything, more things than there is sand on the shore of the sea!" 
1Kings4:30 Solomon was wiser than all the wise men in the East and all the wise men in Egypt. 
1Kings4:31 He was wiser than any other man. This includes Ethan the Ezrahite, as well as Heman, Calcol and Darda, the sons of Mahol. Solomon was famous in all the nations around Israel." 
1Kings4:31 He was wiser than any other man. This includes Ethan the Ezrahite, as well as Heman, Calcol and Darda, the sons of Mahol. Solomon was famous in all the nations around Israel." 
1Kings4:32 He wrote down 3,000 proverbs and he wrote 1,005 songs." 
1Kings4:33 He could describe many plants. These included large trees like cedar trees that grow in Lebanon and small plants like hyssop that grows on walls. He also taught people about all kinds of animals, birds, insects and fish." 
1Kings4:34 People came from all countries to listen to Solomon's wise teaching. Kings of all the nations in the world who heard about Solomon's wisdom sent people to learn from him. 
1Kings5:1 Hiram was the king of Tyre. He heard that Solomon had become king of Israel after his father David. Hiram had always been a friend of King David, so he sent his men to say ‘hello’ to Solomon." 
1Kings5:2 Solomon then sent this message to Hiram: 
1Kings5:3 ‘You know that my father David could not build a temple for the Lord his God. This was because he had to fight battles against enemies that were all around Israel. He did that until the Lord helped him to win against all of them. 
1Kings5:4 But now the Lord my God has made us safe from danger. No enemy tries to attack us on any of our borders. 
1Kings5:5 So I have decided to build a temple to give honour to the Lord my God. The Lord said to my father David, “I will put your son on your throne to rule as king after you. He will build a temple for people to give honour to my name.”" 
1Kings5:6 So please tell your men to cut down cedar trees in Lebanon for me. We ourselves do not have people who know how to cut wood from trees as well as your men from Sidon. So our men will help your men with the work. And I will pay your workers whatever you decide is right.’ 
1Kings5:7 Hiram was very happy when he received Solomon's message. He said, ‘ Praise the Lord today, because he gave David a wise son to rule over the great nation, Israel.’" 
1Kings5:8 Then Hiram sent this message to Solomon: ‘I have received the message that you sent to me. I will give you the wood that you have asked for. I will send you cedar wood and pine wood, as much as you need." 
1Kings5:9 My men will take the trees from the hills of Lebanon down to the sea. Then we will tie several trees together like a boat. We will take them on the sea to the place where you want them. There we will undo the ropes so that your men can carry the trees away. You will pay me with enough food to feed the people of my palace.’ 
1Kings5:10 So Hiram supplied Solomon with all the cedar trees and pine trees that Solomon asked for. 
1Kings5:11 Then Solomon supplied Hiram with 2,000 tons of wheat as food for the people in his palace. He also supplied 450,000 litres of olive oil. Solomon sent this every year to Hiram." 
1Kings5:12 The Lord gave wisdom to Solomon, as he had promised to do. King Hiram and King Solomon made an agreement that their nations would not fight against each other. So there was peace between them." 
1Kings5:13 King Solomon commanded 30,000 men from everywhere in Israel to do the work." 
1Kings5:14 He sent them to Lebanon in groups of 10,000 men each month. They worked in Lebanon for one month, then they lived at home for two months. Adoniram was the officer who had authority over them." 
1Kings5:15 Solomon also had 80,000 men to cut stones in the hills. He had 70,000 men to carry the stones to Jerusalem." 
1Kings5:16 He also had 3,300 officers who told the workers what they should do." 
1Kings5:17 The king commanded the workers to cut large pieces of stone from the rocks. They cut the best stones into the right shape to build the foundation of the temple. 
1Kings5:18 Solomon's men and Hiram's men worked together with men from Gebal. They cut the stones and the wood. They prepared them to build the temple. 
1Kings6:1 Solomon began to build the Lord 's temple 480 years after the Israelites had left Egypt. It was in the fourth year that he had ruled Israel as king. He started the work in the month called Ziv, the second month of the year." 
1Kings6:2 The temple that King Solomon built for the Lord was 27 metres long. It was 9 metres wide. It was 13.5 metres high. 
1Kings6:3 The temple had an entrance room in front of its big hall. The entrance room was as wide as the temple, 9 metres wide. It came 4.5 metres out from the front of the temple itself." 
1Kings6:4 Solomon made narrow windows near the tops of the temple walls. 
1Kings6:5 Solomon built rooms around the outside of the temple walls. These rooms continued outside the big hall and the inside room. The side rooms were on three levels. 
1Kings6:6 The lowest level of rooms was 2.3 metres wide. The middle level was 2.7 metres wide and the top level was 3.2 metres wide. Each floor was built on wooden beams. The beams rested on stones in the temple walls, so that there were no holes that they cut into the walls." 
1Kings6:7 When they built the temple, they used stones that were the right shape. Workers had already cut the stones at the place where they came from. There was no sound of hammers, axes or any iron tools at the place of the temple." 
1Kings6:8 The door to the lowest level of rooms on the sides of the temple was on the south side of the temple. Stairs went up to the middle level and to the top level. 
1Kings6:9 Solomon finished building the temple. He made the roof with wooden beams and with cedar boards. 
1Kings6:10 He also built the rooms around the sides of the temple. Each room was 2.3 metres high. Cedar beams fixed the rooms to the temple building. 
1Kings6:11 Then the Lord gave this message to Solomon: 
1Kings6:12 ‘I will make my home in this temple that you are building. I will do everything for you that I promised to your father David. But you must obey my laws, rules and commands." 
1Kings6:13 Then I will live among my people, the Israelites. I will never leave them.’" 
1Kings6:14 So Solomon finished building the temple. 
1Kings6:15 He used cedar boards to cover the walls on the inside of the temple. The boards went from the floor of the temple up to its ceiling. He covered the floor of the temple with wood from pine trees. 
1Kings6:16 He built a wall across the inside of the temple to make a separate room. That wall was 9 metres from the back wall of the temple. The inside room was the Most Holy Place. The walls were covered with cedar boards from the floor to the ceiling. 
1Kings6:17 The big hall in front of the Most Holy Place was 18 metres long. 
1Kings6:18 The inside of the temple was covered with boards made of cedar wood. The workers cut pictures of fruits and flowers on the wood. The cedar boards completely covered the stone walls, so you could not see any stone." 
1Kings6:19 Solomon prepared the inside room to be the Most Holy Place where they would put the Lord 's Covenant Box. 
1Kings6:20 The inside room was 9 metres long, 9 metres wide and 9 metres high. Solomon used pure gold to cover the walls of this room. He also covered the cedar altar with gold." 
1Kings6:21 Solomon covered all the walls inside the temple with gold. He also hung gold chains across the entrance to the Most Holy Place. He covered everything there with gold. 
1Kings6:22 So he covered everything inside the whole temple with gold. That included the altar that was inside the Most Holy Place. 
1Kings6:23 Solomon used olive wood to make models of two cherubs to stand in the Most Holy Place. Each cherub was 4.4 metres tall. 
1Kings6:24 The first cherub had two wings that were 2.2 metres long each. So it was 4.4 metres from the end of one wing to the end of the other wing. 
1Kings6:25 The second cherub was also 4.4 metres across its wings. The two cherubs were the same size and the same shape. 
1Kings6:26 Each cherub was 4.4 metres high. 
1Kings6:27 Solomon put the cherubs in the inside room of the temple. Their wings went from one wall of the temple to the other wall. One cherub's wing touched one wall of the temple. One of the other cherub's wings touched the other wall. And their wings touched each other in the middle of the room. 
1Kings6:28 Solomon covered the cherubs with gold. 
1Kings6:29 Solomon's workers cut pictures in the wood on the walls of the big hall and the inside room. They were pictures of cherubs, palm trees and flowers." 
1Kings6:30 They also covered the floors of both the rooms with gold. 
1Kings6:31 They used olive wood to make doors for the entrance to the Most Holy Place. The doors were fixed to wooden pillars which had five sides. 
1Kings6:32 The wooden doors had pictures of cherubs, palm trees and flowers. Solomon covered the pictures of the cherubs and the palm trees with very thin gold." 
1Kings6:33 The doors to the big hall of the temple were fixed to pillars made of olive wood. Those pillars had four sides. 
1Kings6:34 Solomon also made two doors from pine wood. Each door had two separate parts that could turn. 
1Kings6:35 He cut pictures of cherubs, palm trees and flowers on those doors too. He covered them with gold in the same way." 
1Kings6:36 Solomon also built a yard around the temple building. The wall around the yard had three rows of special stones, then a row of cedar beams, and so on." 
1Kings6:37 They built the foundation of the Lord 's temple in the fourth year that Solomon was king. It was in the month called Ziv. 
1Kings6:38 They finished building the temple in the 11th year that Solomon was king. It was the eighth month, the month called Bul. So they built the temple in seven years, exactly as the plans showed that it should be." 
1Kings7:1 Solomon was also building a palace for himself. After 13 years, he finished it." 
1Kings7:2 He built the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon. It was 46 metres long, 23 metres wide and 14 metres high. It had four rows of pillars. On top of them were beams. They used cedar wood to make the pillars and the beams." 
1Kings7:3 They also used cedar wood to make the roof. They put the roof on top of the pillars and the beams. There were 45 beams, with 15 beams in each row." 
1Kings7:4 There were three rows of windows on each side of the room. They were opposite each other, in groups of three windows." 
1Kings7:5 All the doors had square corners and four sides. There were three doors in each group. 
1Kings7:6 Solomon also built a Hall of Pillars. It was 23 metres long and 14 metres wide. There was an entrance room at the front of the hall. The entrance room also had pillars and a roof. 
1Kings7:7 Solomon also built a Throne Room. He covered the walls with cedar boards, from the floor to the ceiling. He called it the Hall of Justice. He judged people's arguments in that room." 
1Kings7:8 Solomon also built a house for himself to live in. It was in a yard behind the Hall of Justice. It was like the other buildings. He also built a house like it for his wife who was the king of Egypt's daughter. 
1Kings7:9 Solomon's workers used valuable, large stones to make all the buildings, from the front to the great yard that was behind. They cut the stones to the right size and shape with special saws. They used these stones for the foundations and all the way up to the roof." 
1Kings7:10 They made the foundations with very large, valuable stones. The stones were 3.5 metres or 4.5 metres long." 
1Kings7:11 On top of the foundation they used the best stones that they cut to the right size. They also used beams of cedar wood. 
1Kings7:12 There was a wall around the great yard. This had three rows of special stones, then a row of cedar beams, and so on. It was like the wall around the yard of the Lord 's temple and the entrance room." 
1Kings7:13 King Solomon sent men to Tyre to bring a man called Hiram. 
1Kings7:14 Hiram was the son of a widow from the tribe of Naphtali. His father was a worker who knew how to use bronze to make things. He lived in Tyre. Hiram also had special skills. He knew how to use bronze to make many kinds of things. So he came to work for King Solomon. He did all the work that Solomon asked him to do. 
1Kings7:15 Hiram made two bronze pillars. Each pillar was 8.2 metres high and 5.5 metres around the outside. The metal itself was about 7 centimetres thick. 
1Kings7:16 He also used bronze to make a top for each pillar. Each piece was 2.3 metres high. 
1Kings7:17 Each piece had pictures like rows of chains that joined together. There were seven pictures like this on the top of each pillar. 
1Kings7:18 Hiram also made pictures of two rows of pomegranates around the chains. They covered the tops of the pillars. 
1Kings7:19 The tops of the two pillars were in the shape of flowers called lilies. Each one was 1.8 metres high. 
1Kings7:20 There were pictures of 200 pomegranates in two rows all around the top of each pillar. They were next to the chains above the round shape at the top of the pillar. 
1Kings7:21 Hiram put these two pillars at the entrance room of the temple, in front of the big hall, the hall of pillars in the temple. He called the pillar on the south side ‘Jakin’. He called the pillar on the north side ‘Boaz’." 
1Kings7:22 The tops of the pillars were in the shape of flowers called lilies. Hiram finished the work on the two bronze pillars. 
1Kings7:23 Hiram also used bronze to make a big bath which they called ‘the Sea’. It was in the shape of a circle 4.5 metres across. It was 2.3 metres deep. It was 14 metres around the outside. 
1Kings7:24 All around its edge, below the top, there were two rows of round shapes. They were pictures of fruits called gourds. They were all part of the same piece of bronze as ‘the Sea’. There were 20 gourds for every metre around the edge." 
1Kings7:25 Hiram fixed ‘the Sea’ on top of 12 bronze bulls. Three pointed north, three pointed west, three pointed south and three pointed east. Their backs were towards the middle of ‘the Sea’." 
1Kings7:26 The walls of ‘the Sea’ were 7½ centimetres thick. Its top edge was like a cup in the shape of a lily flower. ‘The Sea’ contained about 40,000 litres of water." 
1Kings7:27 Hiram also made ten bronze carts to carry water. Each one was 1.8 metres long, 1.8 metres wide and 1.3 metres deep." 
1Kings7:28 He made the water carts with bronze sides, which he fixed to bronze bars at the edges." 
1Kings7:29 There were pictures of lions, bulls and cherubs on the bars and on the edges. There were shapes like leaves above and below the lions and the bulls." 
1Kings7:30 Each cart had four bronze wheels fixed to bronze axles. The axles were fixed under each cart at four places. These places had shapes like leaves on each side. 
1Kings7:31 On the top of the cart there was a round piece which held a bowl. This piece was 50 centimetres deep and 75 centimetres across. Hiram cut pictures into the metal all around it. The bronze sides of the carts were square. They were not round. 
1Kings7:32 There were four wheels under each cart. They were fixed to axles. The axles and the cart joined together in one piece. Each wheel was 70 centimetres high. 
1Kings7:33 The wheels were like the wheels of a chariot. Hiram used bronze to make the axles and all the parts of the wheels. 
1Kings7:34 Each cart had four handles. There was one handle on each side, joined to the cart as one piece." 
1Kings7:35 There was a piece of metal round the top of each cart. It was 23 centimetres deep. It was fixed at each corner of the cart with pieces of bronze. These pieces and the sides of each cart were all joined together. 
1Kings7:36 Hiram cut pictures of cherubs, lions and palm trees on the sides of each cart and on the handles. He cut pictures where there was a space for them. There were also shapes of leaves all around." 
1Kings7:37 Hiram used bronze to make the ten carts so that they all had the same size and shape. 
1Kings7:38 And Hiram also made ten bronze buckets. Each bucket contained about 800 litres. Each bucket was 1.8 metres across. There was one bucket for each of the ten carts. 
1Kings7:39 Hiram put five of the carts on the south side of the temple. He put the other five carts on the north side of the temple. He put ‘the Sea’ on the south side of the temple, at the south-east corner." 
1Kings7:40 Hiram also made dishes to carry ashes, small tools and bowls. So Hiram finished all the work in the Lord 's temple that King Solomon had asked him to do. He made these things:" 
1Kings7:41 Two pillars. Two pieces for the top of each pillar, with the shape of big bowls. Rows of chains on the tops of the pillars." 
1Kings7:42 400 images of pomegranates for the two groups of chains. (There were two rows of these images around the piece at the top of each pillar, which had the shape of a bowl.)" 
1Kings7:43 Ten carts with the ten buckets that were on them. 
1Kings7:44 The big bath called ‘the Sea’ and the 12 bulls under it. 
1Kings7:45 The dishes, small tools and bowls. King Solomon asked Hiram to make all these things for the Lord 's temple. Hiram used bright bronze to make all these things." 
1Kings7:46 The king told his workers to pour the hot bronze into shapes in the ground. They did that at a special place in the region of the Jordan Valley, between Succoth and Zarethan." 
1Kings7:47 Solomon did not weigh any of these things, because there were so many of them. No one ever knew the weight of the bronze." 
1Kings7:48 Solomon also made all these things for the Lord 's temple: The gold altar. The gold table which had the special bread on it. 
1Kings7:49 The pure gold lampstands. There were five lampstands on one side of the door to the Most Holy Place and five on the other side. The gold images of flowers. The lamps. The small tools that held things for the altar. 
1Kings7:50 The pure gold bowls. The small tools that they used for the lamps. The bowls for water. The dishes for ashes. The baskets that carried hot coals. The gold pieces that held the doors of the Most Holy Place. The gold pieces that held the doors of the temple's big hall. 
1Kings7:51 King Solomon finished all the work for the Lord 's temple. Then he brought into it all the holy things that belonged to his father, David. He stored all the valuable things in a safe place in the Lord 's temple. They included silver things and gold things." 
1Kings8:1 Then Solomon told all the leaders of Israel to come to him in Jerusalem. They were all the leaders of the Israelite tribes and families. He wanted them to bring the Lord 's Covenant Box from Mount Zion, the City of David, to put it in the temple." 
1Kings8:2 So all the Israelite leaders came together to meet with King Solomon. This happened during the Festival of Huts in the seventh month of the year, called Ethanim." 
1Kings8:3 When all Israel's leaders had arrived, the priests lifted up the Covenant Box." 
1Kings8:4 The priests and the Levites carried the Lord 's Covenant Box, the Tent of Meeting and all the holy things that were in the tent." 
1Kings8:5 King Solomon and all the Israelites who were with him walked in front of the Covenant Box. They offered many sheep and bulls as sacrifices. There were more animals than anyone could count. 
1Kings8:6 Then the priests brought the Lord 's Covenant Box to its proper place in the inside room of the temple. That was the Most Holy Place. They put it under the wings of the cherubs. 
1Kings8:7 The wings of the cherubs touched each other above the place where the Covenant Box was. The cherubs covered the Covenant Box and the poles that the Levites used to carry it. 
1Kings8:8 The poles were very long. The priests could see their ends from the Holy Place, if they stood in front of the Most Holy Place. But nobody could see the poles from outside the temple. And they are still there today." 
1Kings8:9 There was nothing in the Covenant Box, except the two flat stones that Moses had put there at Sinai. That was where the Lord made a covenant with the Israelites after they came out from Egypt." 
1Kings8:10 When the priests came out from the Holy Place, a cloud filled the Lord 's temple." 
1Kings8:11 The priests could not do their work to serve the Lord, because of the cloud. The Lord 's bright glory filled his temple." 
1Kings8:12 Then Solomon prayed, ‘ Lord, you have said that you live in a dark cloud." 
1Kings8:13 Now I have built a great temple for you. It is a place where you can live for ever.’ 
1Kings8:14 While all the Israelite people stood there, the king turned towards them. He prayed that God would bless them." 
1Kings8:15 He said, ‘ Praise the Lord, Israel's God, as he deserves. He has used his power to do what he promised to do for my father David." 
1Kings8:16 He told David, “I brought my people, the Israelites, out from Egypt. From that time, I have not chosen a city in any of Israel's tribes to build a temple where my people would worship me. Now I have chosen David to rule Israel, my people, as king.”" 
1Kings8:17 My father David wanted very much to build a temple to give honour to the Lord, Israel's God." 
1Kings8:18 But the Lord said to my father David, “It was good that you wanted to build a temple to give me honour." 
1Kings8:19 But you will not build the temple. Instead, one of your own sons will build it to give honour to me.”" 
1Kings8:20 Now the Lord has done what he promised to do. I now rule Israel as king on the throne of my father David, as the Lord promised. I have built this temple to give honour to the Lord, Israel's God." 
1Kings8:21 I have made a place there for the Covenant Box. It contains the covenant that the Lord made with our ancestors when he brought them out of Egypt.’ 
1Kings8:22 Then Solomon stood in front of the Lord 's altar. All the Israelite people who had come together there could see him. He lifted up his hands towards the sky. 
1Kings8:23 He prayed, ‘ Lord, Israel's God, there is no God like you, either in heaven above or down here on the earth. You continue to do what you have promised to do for your people. You faithfully love those who want to serve you." 
1Kings8:24 You have done what you promised to do for your servant, my father David. You have used your power to finish today everything that you said you would do." 
1Kings8:25 Now Lord, Israel's God, there is another promise that you spoke to my father David. I pray that you will do that too. You said to David, “There will always be one of your descendants to rule Israel as my chosen king. But for this to happen, your sons must be careful to serve me well, as you have done.”" 
1Kings8:26 So now, God of Israel, please cause what you promised to my father, your servant David, to happen." 
1Kings8:27 But surely God, you do not live on the earth! The whole sky, or even heaven itself, is too small to contain you! So how can you live in this temple that I have built?" 
1Kings8:28 But Lord, my God, please listen to my prayer, as I ask you for help. Please answer me, your servant, because I need your help today." 
1Kings8:29 Watch over this temple and take care of it day and night. This is the place about which you said, “People will give honour to my name there.” Please answer my prayers when I turn towards this place to pray to you." 
1Kings8:30 Hear the prayers of me, your servant, and the prayers of your people, the Israelites. Please answer us when we turn towards this place and we pray to you. Hear us from heaven, the place where you live. And when we pray, forgive us for our sins." 
1Kings8:31 Somebody may do a bad thing against another person. Then he may come to this temple and stand in front of your altar. He may say to you that he is not guilty of any wrong thing. 
1Kings8:32 Then listen from heaven to what these people are saying. Decide who is right. Punish the guilty person as he deserves. Show clearly that the other person is right, because he has not done any wrong thing." 
1Kings8:33 Perhaps an enemy will win against your people, the Israelites, because we have not obeyed you. But then your people may turn back to you and worship you. They may come into this temple and pray that you will help them." 
1Kings8:34 If they do that, please hear them from heaven! Please forgive the sins of your people, the Israelites. Please bring them back to the land that you gave to their ancestors." 
1Kings8:35 Sometimes, there may be no rain from the sky because your people have not obeyed you. Then they may turn towards this place and pray to you. They may give honour to your name and turn away from their sins, because you have punished them." 
1Kings8:36 If they do that, please hear them from heaven! Please forgive the sins of your servants, your people, the Israelites. Teach them to live in the right way. And please send rain onto this land that you gave to your people to belong to them for ever." 
1Kings8:37 Sometimes, there may be other troubles in our land. There may be a famine or a bad disease. Our crops may not grow and our animals may be ill. Locusts may destroy our crops. An enemy may attack some cities in our land. Or there may be other kinds of disease or trouble." 
1Kings8:38 Then, some of your people may pray to you and ask you for help. If someone is sad and upset, he may turn towards this temple and lift up his hands in prayer." 
1Kings8:39 If someone does that, please hear him from your home in heaven. Please forgive the sins of your people and help them. Only you know what people are thinking. So please give to each person as they deserve." 
1Kings8:40 Then your people will respect and obey you as they live in this land that you gave to our ancestors. 
1Kings8:41 Foreigners, who do not belong to your people, the Israelites, will hear how great you are. Then they will come here from other countries far away." 
1Kings8:42 They will hear about you and your power to do great things. Then they will turn towards this temple and pray to you. 
1Kings8:43 When that happens, please hear them from your home in heaven. Please answer all the prayers of these foreign people. Then people from all the nations in the world will realize how great you are. They also will respect you and obey you, as your own people do. They will understand that this temple that I have built belongs to you." 
1Kings8:44 Sometimes, your people will go to fight against their enemies at the place where you have sent them. Then they may turn towards this city and pray to the Lord. This is the city that you have chosen for me to build the temple to give you honour." 
1Kings8:45 When they pray to you, please hear them from your home in heaven. Do what is right to help them win against their enemies." 
1Kings8:46 There is nobody who never does a wrong thing. So when your people do not obey you, you will be angry with them. You will put them under the power of their enemies. Those enemies will take them as prisoners to their own country. Perhaps it will be a country that is far away. Perhaps it will be near." 
1Kings8:47 Then your people may think about the bad things that they have done. While they are prisoners in their enemy's country, they may be sorry about their sins. They may pray to you and ask you to forgive them. They may say, “We have turned away from God and we have done wicked things.”" 
1Kings8:48 In the country where they are prisoners, they may turn back to you and worship you truly. They may turn towards this land that you gave to their ancestors. They may pray to you as they look towards this city that you have chosen. They may look towards the temple that I have built to give you honour." 
1Kings8:49 If they do that, please hear them from your home in heaven. Please answer their prayers and do what is right to help them." 
1Kings8:50 Please forgive your people for all the sins that they have done against you. Please cause their enemies to be kind to them. 
1Kings8:51 Remember that they are your special people who belong to you. You brought them out of Egypt where they were like prisoners in a very hot oven. 
1Kings8:52 I pray that you will carefully watch over me, your servant. Please answer my prayers and the prayers of your people, the Israelites. Whenever we pray to you, please listen to us." 
1Kings8:53 From all the nations of the world you chose Israel to belong to you as your special people. Almighty Lord, this is what you promised to your servant Moses when you brought our ancestors out of Egypt.’" 
1Kings8:54 So Solomon finished all his prayers and everything that he wanted to ask the Lord for. He had been down on his knees with his hands lifted up towards the sky in front of the Lord 's altar. Now he stood up. 
1Kings8:55 When he stood up, he asked God to bless all the people in Israel. He said with a loud voice," 
1Kings8:56 ‘ Praise the Lord as he deserves! He has given his people, the Israelites, a safe place to live, as he has promised to do. Every great promise that the Lord gave to his servant Moses has now happened!" 
1Kings8:57 I pray that the Lord our God will be with us, as he was with our ancestors. I pray that he will never leave us or turn away from us." 
1Kings8:58 I pray that the Lord will cause us to respect his authority. Then we will do what he wants us to do. We will obey all his commands, rules and laws that he gave to our ancestors." 
1Kings8:59 I pray that the Lord our God will continue to remember these words that I have prayed. May he keep them in his thoughts. I pray that he will do what is right to help me and his people, the Israelites. May he give us the help that we need each day." 
1Kings8:60 Then all the nations of the earth will understand that the Lord is the only true God. There is no other God. 
1Kings8:61 I pray that you will continue to serve the Lord our God faithfully. You must continue to obey his rules and his commands, as you do now.’" 
1Kings8:62 Then the king and all the Israelite people who were with him offered sacrifices to the Lord. 
1Kings8:63 These are the friendship offerings that Solomon offered to the Lord: 22,000 cows. 120,000 sheep and goats. In this way, King Solomon and all the Israelite people offered the temple as a gift to the Lord." 
1Kings8:64 On the same day, the king gave to the Lord the yard that was in front of the temple. King Solomon offered burnt offerings and grain offerings to the Lord. He also offered the fat from the friendship offerings. The bronze altar in front of the temple was too small to contain all these offerings. So Solomon made these sacrifices in the middle of the yard instead." 
1Kings8:65 At that time, Solomon and the big crowd of Israelites who were with him had a festival for seven days. They gave honour to the Lord our God. There were people from everywhere in Israel, from Hamath in the north to the Stream of Egypt in the south." 
1Kings8:66 The day after the festival, Solomon sent the people away to their homes. They thanked God for the king and were very happy. They were full of joy because the Lord had done many good things for his servant David and for his people, the Israelites." 
1Kings9:1 Solomon had finished building the Lord 's temple and the king's palace. He had built everything that he had wanted to build. 
1Kings9:2 Then the Lord appeared to Solomon a second time, as he had appeared to him at Gibeon." 
1Kings9:3 The Lord said to Solomon, ‘I have heard your prayer and how you have asked me to help you. I have made this temple that you have built a special place for me. People will worship me there for ever. I will always be there to watch over it." 
1Kings9:4 You must continue to serve me honestly and obey me, as your father David did. Do everything that I have commanded you to do. Obey my rules and my laws." 
1Kings9:5 If you serve me truly, I will cause one of your descendants to rule over Israel as king for all time. That is what I promised to your father David when I said, “There will always be someone from your family to rule Israel as king.”" 
1Kings9:6 But if you or your descendants turn away from me, I will punish your people. I will do that if you do not obey the laws and rules that I have given to you. I will do it if you choose to serve and to worship other gods." 
1Kings9:7 Then I will remove the Israelite people from the land that I have given to them. I will turn away from this temple that I have made a special place for people to worship me. People from all the other nations will insult the Israelites and they will laugh at them. 
1Kings9:8 This temple will became a heap of stones. Everyone who sees it will be very surprised. They will laugh about it! They will ask, “Why has the Lord destroyed this land and this temple?”" 
1Kings9:9 People will answer, “He has done it because they have turned away from the Lord their God. He brought their ancestors out of Egypt. But they have chosen to worship other gods and to serve them. That is why the Lord has caused this trouble to happen to them.” ’" 
1Kings9:10 Solomon was building the Lord 's temple and the king's palace for 20 years. 
1Kings9:11 After this, he gave 20 towns in Galilee to Hiram, the king of Tyre. Solomon did this because Hiram had given him everything that he needed for the work. Hiram had given him cedar wood, pine wood and gold." 
1Kings9:12 So Hiram left Tyre and he went to Galilee, to see the towns that Solomon had given to him. But Hiram was not happy with them." 
1Kings9:13 He said to Solomon, ‘My friend, you have given me some useless towns!’ Hiram called that region ‘Land of Cabul’. It still has that name today." 
1Kings9:14 Hiram had sent to King Solomon about 4,000 kilograms of gold." 
1Kings9:15 Solomon made people work on the buildings for him. This is how he used them to build the Lord 's temple, the king's palace, the Millo and the wall around Jerusalem. They also did work on the towns called Hazor, Megiddo and Gezer." 
1Kings9:16 Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, had attacked Gezer and he had taken it. He had destroyed it with fire. He killed the Canaanites who lived there. Then he gave it as a gift to his daughter, when she married Solomon." 
1Kings9:17 So Solomon built Gezer again. He also built Lower Beth-Horon," 
1Kings9:18 Baalath and Tadmor, which were towns in the wilderness of Judah." 
1Kings9:19 Solomon also made strong the cities where he stored things and the cities where he kept his chariots and horses. He built everything that he wanted to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon and everywhere in his kingdom." 
1Kings9:20 Solomon only made people who were not Israelites do the hard work for him. They were Canaanite people who still lived in the land after the Israelites took it for themselves. They were Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
1Kings9:21 The Israelites had not been able to remove all of these people, so their descendants remained in the land. So Solomon made them do hard work as his slaves. They are still slaves of the Israelites today." 
1Kings9:22 But Solomon did not make any of the Israelites do the hard work. Instead, they served him as his soldiers, government officers and army officers. Some of the soldiers drove chariots and some were leaders of the chariot drivers." 
1Kings9:23 There were also officers who had authority over the slaves who did the work. There were 550 officers who led the work. 
1Kings9:24 Solomon had built a palace for his wife, Pharaoh's daughter. When the palace was ready, she came up from the City of David. After that, Solomon built the Millo." 
1Kings9:25 Three times every year Solomon offered burnt offerings and friendship offerings as sacrifices to the Lord. He did this on the altar that he had built for the Lord. With these offerings, he also burned incense to worship the Lord. So the temple became the place to worship the Lord." 
1Kings9:26 King Solomon also built ships at Ezion-Geber. This place is near Elath in Edom, on the shore of the Red Sea." 
1Kings9:27 Hiram had sailors who knew how to sail ships on the sea. He sent some of these men to work with Solomon's sailors. 
1Kings9:28 They sailed to Ophir and they brought back about 14 tons of gold. They gave it to King Solomon. 
1Kings10:1 The Queen of Sheba heard news that Solomon was a great king who served the Lord. So she came to ask Solomon some difficult questions to see how wise he was. 
1Kings10:2 She arrived at Jerusalem with a big group of servants. She had many camels that carried spices. They also carried a lot of gold and valuable jewels. When she came to Solomon, she talked to him about everything that was in her mind." 
1Kings10:3 Solomon answered all her questions. There was nothing that was too difficult for the king to explain to her. 
1Kings10:4 The Queen of Sheba saw that Solomon was very wise. She saw the palace that he had built. 
1Kings10:5 She saw all the food that he ate in his palace. She saw all his servants and officers and their beautiful clothes. She saw the servants who prepared his food and wine. She saw the burnt offerings that he offered in the Lord 's temple. All these things caused her to hold her breath in surprise. 
1Kings10:6 She said to the king, ‘In my own country I heard news about your wisdom and about all the things that you had done. Everything that I heard was true!" 
1Kings10:7 But I did not believe those things until I came here. Now I have seen everything with my own eyes, and it is true! Really, they told me less than half of what was true! You are even wiser and richer than the report that people told me." 
1Kings10:8 God has blessed your people and your officers! They are always with you, and they can listen to your wise words." 
1Kings10:9 So we praise the Lord your God! He is happy with you and he has chosen you to rule Israel. The Lord 's love for Israel will continue for ever. So he has made you king to rule in a fair and honest way.’ 
1Kings10:10 The Queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon more than 4,000 kilograms of gold, a lot of spices and many valuable jewels. Nobody has ever brought such a big number of spices as she gave to the king." 
1Kings10:11 Hiram's ships had brought gold from Ophir. They also brought from there large loads of good wood, and valuable jewels." 
1Kings10:12 The king used the wood to make steps for the Lord 's temple and for the king's palace. He also used it to make harps and lyres for the musicians. Nobody has ever seen such valuable wood, even until today." 
1Kings10:13 So King Solomon gave the Queen of Sheba all the gifts that he chose for her. He gave her everything that she wanted. Then she left Solomon and she returned to her own country with her servants. 
1Kings10:14 Solomon received 25 tons of gold each year. 
1Kings10:15 He also received money from traders, from the kings of Arabia and from the rulers of each region in Israel." 
1Kings10:16 King Solomon's workers used gold to make 200 large shields. They hit the gold with hammers to make it flat. They used about four kilograms of gold to cover each shield. 
1Kings10:17 They also made 300 small shields in the same way. They used about 2 kilograms of gold to cover each shield. He put these shields in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon. 
1Kings10:18 The king used ivory to make a large throne. He covered it with gold. 
1Kings10:19 There were six steps up to the throne. The back of the throne was a round shape at the top. On both sides of the seat there were places for the king to put his arms. An image of a lion stood on each side of the throne. 
1Kings10:20 There were 12 more images of lions on the six steps. There was one lion at each end of every step. There was no throne like it in any other kingdom. 
1Kings10:21 They used gold to make all King Solomon's cups that he drank from. In the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon, all the dishes and other things were made with gold. They used pure gold. They did not make anything with silver. In Solomon's time, people did not think that silver was very valuable." 
1Kings10:22 The king had many large ships that could sail across the seas. They sailed with King Hiram's ships. Every three years they returned to Solomon with their loads. They brought to him gold, silver and ivory. They also brought apes and monkeys." 
1Kings10:23 King Solomon was richer and wiser than any other king in the world. 
1Kings10:24 People from every nation in the world wanted to talk to Solomon. They wanted to listen to the wisdom that God had given to him. 
1Kings10:25 Every year, people who came to visit Solomon brought him gifts. They brought things that were made from silver and gold, as well as clothes, weapons, spices, horses and mules." 
1Kings10:26 Solomon brought together many chariots and horses for his soldiers to ride. He had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horses. He kept some of them in Jerusalem where he lived as king. He put the others in cities that he had chosen for this." 
1Kings10:27 While Solomon ruled as king, there was as much silver in Jerusalem as stones! There was as much wood from cedar trees as there were fig trees that grew in the low hills in the west." 
1Kings10:28 Solomon brought horses to Israel from Egypt and from Kue. He sent traders to Kue to buy them for him. 
1Kings10:29 Each chariot that they bought in Egypt cost 600 pieces of silver. Each horse cost 150 pieces of silver. They also sold chariots and horses to all the kings of the Hittites and to the kings of Syria. 
1Kings11:1 Solomon loved Pharaoh's daughter and many other foreign women. Those women were Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians and Hittites." 
1Kings11:2 The Lord had warned the Israelites about these nations. He said, ‘You must not marry people from these nations. If you do, they will cause you to worship their own gods.’ But Solomon did love these foreign women and he married them." 
1Kings11:3 Solomon had 700 royal wives. He also had 300 slave wives. His wives caused him to turn away from the Lord. 
1Kings11:4 When Solomon became old, his wives caused him to serve other gods. Solomon no longer completely loved the Lord his God as his father David had done." 
1Kings11:5 Solomon worshipped Ashtoreth, the female god of the Sidonian people. He also worshipped Molech, the wicked god of the Ammonite people." 
1Kings11:6 As a result, Solomon did things that the Lord said were evil. He did not serve the Lord faithfully as his father David had done." 
1Kings11:7 On a hill east of Jerusalem Solomon built a place to worship false gods. He worshipped Chemosh, the wicked god of the Moabite people, and Molech, the wicked god of the Ammonite people." 
1Kings11:8 Solomon also built places where his foreign wives could worship their gods. They burned incense and they offered sacrifices to their own gods in these places. 
1Kings11:9 So the Lord became angry with Solomon. Solomon had turned away from the Lord, Israel's God, who had appeared to Solomon twice." 
1Kings11:10 He had warned Solomon that he must not serve other gods. But Solomon did not obey the Lord 's command. 
1Kings11:11 So the Lord said to Solomon, ‘I see the things that you have chosen to do. You have not obeyed my covenant and the laws that I commanded you to obey. So I will take the kingdom away from you. One of your servants will rule the kingdom instead of you." 
1Kings11:12 But I will not do this while you are alive, because your father David was faithful to me. Instead, I will take the kingdom away from your son." 
1Kings11:13 But I will not take away the whole kingdom from him. I will leave one tribe for him to rule as king. I will do this because King David served me faithfully, and because I have chosen Jerusalem as my special city.’" 
1Kings11:14 The Lord brought an enemy to attack Solomon. He was Hadad who came from Edom. Hadad belonged to the king of Edom's family. 
1Kings11:15 When David was king, he had fought against Edom's people. Joab, the leader of David's army, had gone to Edom to bury the dead Israelite soldiers. At that time, Joab killed all the men in Edom." 
1Kings11:16 Joab and Israel's army stayed in Edom for six months. During that time, they killed all the men in Edom." 
1Kings11:17 Hadad was a small boy at that time. He escaped from Edom with some of his father's officers. They went towards Egypt. 
1Kings11:18 They went from Midian as far as Paran. They took some men from Paran and they all went to Egypt. They went to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. Pharaoh gave Hadad a house to live in and food to eat. He also gave Hadad some land." 
1Kings11:19 Pharaoh was very pleased with Hadad, so he gave Hadad a wife. She was the sister of his own wife, Queen Tahpenes." 
1Kings11:20 Tahpenes's sister gave birth to Hadad's son, called Genubath. Queen Tahpenes took care of Genubath in the king's palace. Genubath lived there with Pharaoh's own children." 
1Kings11:21 While Hadad was living in Egypt, he heard the news that King David had died. Joab, the leader of David's army, was also dead by this time. So Hadad said to Pharaoh, ‘Please let me return to my own country.’" 
1Kings11:22 Pharaoh asked him, ‘Why do you want to return to your own country? Is there anything that you do not have here?’ Hadad replied, ‘There is nothing wrong, but please let me go.’" 
1Kings11:23 God also brought another enemy to attack Solomon. He was Eliada's son Rezon. He had run away from his master, Hadadezer, the king of Zobah." 
1Kings11:24 After David had destroyed Hadadezer's army, Rezon became the leader of a group of bad men. Rezon went to Damascus with his men, and Rezon became ruler of the city." 
1Kings11:25 Rezon was Israel's enemy all the time that Solomon was alive. He caused trouble for Solomon, as Hadad also did. Rezon ruled in Syria and he hated the Israelite people." 
1Kings11:26 Nebat's son Jeroboam was one of Solomon's officers. He came from Zeredah in Ephraim. His mother was a widow. Her name was Zeruah. Jeroboam turned against King Solomon. 
1Kings11:27 This is what happened: Solomon had built the Millo. He had also mended the walls of the City of David his father. 
1Kings11:28 Jeroboam was a strong young man. Solomon saw that he did his work very well. So he made Jeroboam the leader of the workers who belonged to Joseph's tribe. 
1Kings11:29 During that time, Jeroboam travelled out from Jerusalem. A prophet, Ahijah, met him on the road. They were alone in the country. Ahijah came from Shiloh. He was wearing a new coat." 
1Kings11:30 Ahijah took off his new coat. He tore it into 12 pieces. 
1Kings11:31 Then he said to Jeroboam, ‘Take ten pieces for yourself. This is what the Lord, Israel's God, is saying to you: “I will take Solomon's kingdom away from him! I will give you ten tribes to rule over." 
1Kings11:32 But Solomon will continue to rule over one tribe. That is because King David served me faithfully, and because I have chosen Jerusalem as my special city. I did not choose a city in any of the other tribes of Israel." 
1Kings11:33 I will take the kingdom away from Solomon because he and his people have turned away from me. They have started to worship Ashtoreth, the female god of the Sidonian people. They also worship Chemosh, the god of the Moabite people, and Molech, the god of the Ammonite people. They have not lived in a way that pleases me. They have not done the things that I say are right. They have not obeyed my rules and my laws. They have not lived in a good way, as Solomon's father David did." 
1Kings11:34 But I will not take the whole kingdom away from Solomon. I will let him continue to rule as king while he still lives. I will do that because of my servant David that I chose to be king. David obeyed my commands and my rules. 
1Kings11:35 I will take the kingdom away from his son and I will give ten tribes for you to rule. 
1Kings11:36 But I will leave one tribe for Solomon's son to rule. Then my servant David will continue to have a descendant who serves me as king in Jerusalem. That is the city that I have chosen as the place where people will worship me. 
1Kings11:37 But I will make you, Jeroboam, king of Israel. You will rule over all the land that you want for yourself." 
1Kings11:38 But you must do everything that I command you to do. You must live in a way that pleases me. You must do the things that I say are right. You must obey my rules and my commands, as my servant David did. If you do that, I will always be with you. I will cause your descendants to continue to rule Israel. What I have done for David's family, I will also do for your family. The nation of Israel will belong to you." 
1Kings11:39 Because of Solomon's sins I will punish David's descendants. But I will not punish them for ever.” ’ 
1Kings11:40 Solomon then tried to kill Jeroboam, but Jeroboam escaped to Egypt. Shishak, the king of Egypt, kept Jeroboam safe. Jeroboam stayed in Egypt until Solomon died." 
1Kings11:41 The other things that happened while Solomon was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Solomon’. It tells about Solomon's wisdom and everything that he did. 
1Kings11:42 Solomon ruled over all Israel for 40 years while he lived in Jerusalem. 
1Kings11:43 Then he died. They buried him with his ancestors, in the city of his father David. His son Rehoboam became king after him." 
1Kings12:1 Rehoboam went to Shechem, because all the Israelites had gone there to make him king." 
1Kings12:2 At this time, Nebat's son Jeroboam was still in Egypt. He had been living there since he ran away from King Solomon. When he heard the news about Rehoboam, he returned home." 
1Kings12:3 The Israelites sent a message to Jeroboam to meet with them. Then Jeroboam and the whole group of Israelites went to speak to Rehoboam. They said to him," 
1Kings12:4 ‘Your father caused us to work too hard. Please make the work easier for us. If you do that, we will serve you as our king.’" 
1Kings12:5 Rehoboam answered them, ‘Go away for three days. Then come back to me.’ So the people went away." 
1Kings12:6 Then King Rehoboam went to talk to the older advisors who had served his father Solomon. He asked them, ‘What answer should I give to these people?’" 
1Kings12:7 The old men said to him, ‘If you agree to help these people today, they will always serve you as their king. So do what they are asking you to do.’" 
1Kings12:8 But Rehoboam did not agree with their advice. Instead he talked to some younger men. They had been his friends since they were young and now they were his advisors. 
1Kings12:9 He asked them, ‘What do you think that I should say to these people? They want me to make their work easier.’" 
1Kings12:10 Rehoboam's young advisors said, ‘Those people said to you, “Your father made us work too hard. Please make our work easier.” You should tell them, “Even my little finger is thicker than my father's whole body!" 
1Kings12:11 My father made you work hard. I will make you work even harder! My father punished you with little whips. I will punish you with whips that bite your skin!” ’ 
1Kings12:12 Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam after three days. That was because the king had said, ‘Return to me in three days.’" 
1Kings12:13 King Rehoboam spoke cruel words to the people. He did not agree to say what the older men had told him to say. 
1Kings12:14 Instead, he did what the young men had suggested. He said to the people, ‘My father gave you work that was too hard for you. I will make it even worse! My father punished you with little whips. I will punish you with whips that bite!’" 
1Kings12:15 So the king did not agree to do what the people wanted him to do. It was the Lord who caused this to happen. He had already given his message about this to Nebat's son Jeroboam. The prophet Ahijah who came from Shiloh had spoken the Lord 's message to Jeroboam. 
1Kings12:16 All the Israelites realized that the king refused to listen to them. So they said to the king, ‘We can no longer serve the family of Jesse's son, David! Israelites, go back to your homes! You descendant of David, take care of your own family!’ So the Israelites went to their homes." 
1Kings12:17 But Rehoboam continued to rule over the Israelites who lived in the towns of Judah. 
1Kings12:18 King Rehoboam sent a man called Adoniram to talk to the Israelite people. Adoniram had authority over the men who had to work for Rehoboam. But the Israelites threw stones at Adoniram and they killed him. So King Rehoboam quickly got into his chariot and he escaped to Jerusalem. 
1Kings12:19 Since that time, the tribes in the north of Israel have not accepted the authority of King David's descendants." 
1Kings12:20 All the Israelites heard that Jeroboam had returned from Egypt. So they asked him to come to a meeting of the people. They decided to make him king over all Israel. Only the tribe of Judah still served David's descendant as their king. 
1Kings12:21 Rehoboam arrived back in Jerusalem. He brought together all the men from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin who knew how to fight. There were 180,000 of them. Solomon's son Rehoboam wanted to attack the Israelite tribes so that he could rule them again as king." 
1Kings12:22 But God told the prophet Shemaiah," 
1Kings12:23 ‘Say this to Solomon's son Rehoboam, the king of Judah. Say it to all the people of Judah and Benjamin, and to all the other people." 
1Kings12:24 This is what the Lord says: “Do not attack your brothers, the Israelites. Do not fight against them. Instead, you must all go home. I, the Lord, have decided that this must happen.” ’ So they obeyed the Lord 's message. They went back to their homes, as the Lord had commanded them to do." 
1Kings12:25 Jeroboam made Shechem into a strong city. He lived there, in the hill country of Ephraim. He also went to make Penuel a strong city." 
1Kings12:26 Jeroboam thought, ‘I do not want the people of my kingdom to accept David's descendants as king again." 
1Kings12:27 The people that I rule might go to the Lord 's temple in Jerusalem to offer sacrifices there. Then they may decide to serve Rehoboam, king of Judah, who was their master before. They might kill me and then go back to serve King Rehoboam.’" 
1Kings12:28 So King Jeroboam talked to his advisors. He used gold to make images of two young cows. He said to the people, ‘It is too difficult for you to go to Jerusalem to worship the Lord, as you have done before. So I have made these gold cows for you instead. Look at them, Israelite people! These are your gods that rescued you and brought you out from Egypt.’" 
1Kings12:29 Jeroboam put one gold cow in Bethel. He put the other gold cow in Dan. 
1Kings12:30 But that caused the Israelite people to do a very bad thing. They went to Bethel and to Dan to worship the gold cows. 
1Kings12:31 Jeroboam also built places on hills for people to worship. He chose men who were not from Levi's tribe to be priests. 
1Kings12:32 He decided to have a festival on the 15th day of the eighth month each year. He wanted it to be like the festival that they had in Judah. He offered sacrifices on the altar in Bethel to the gold cows that he had made. He also chose priests to serve at the places that he built for people to worship. 
1Kings12:33 On the 15th day of the eighth month, Jeroboam offered sacrifices on the altar that he had made at Bethel. That was the special day that he himself had decided to choose as a festival for the Israelites. On that day, he burned incense on the altar." 
1Kings13:1 King Jeroboam was standing in front of the altar at Bethel. He was ready to make an offering. At that time, the Lord told one of his servants to go from Judah to Bethel." 
1Kings13:2 When he arrived at Bethel, he shouted the message that the Lord had given to him. He said, ‘Altar! Altar! This is what the Lord says to you: “Listen! One day, a son will be born in David's family. His name will be Josiah. On this altar, he will burn as sacrifices the priests who offer sacrifices on the hills. He will burn the bones of dead people on you!” ’" 
1Kings13:3 The same day, God's servant spoke another message to warn Jeroboam. He said, ‘This is the sign to show that the Lord has decided to do this: You will see the altar break into two pieces. The ashes of the sacrifices that are on it will fall to the ground.’" 
1Kings13:4 King Jeroboam heard the message that God's servant shouted against the altar at Bethel. As he stood there at the altar, the king pointed his hand at God's servant. He said, ‘Take hold of that man!’ But when he pointed with his hand, it suddenly became useless and he could not pull it back." 
1Kings13:5 Then the altar broke into two pieces and the ashes fell to the ground. That is what God's servant had said would happen, to show that he spoke with the Lord 's authority." 
1Kings13:6 The king said to God's servant, ‘Please pray to the Lord your God that he will be kind to me. Pray that my hand will become strong again.’ So God's servant prayed to the Lord. And the king's hand became strong again, as it was before." 
1Kings13:7 Then the king said to God's servant, ‘Come home with me. Have some food to eat. I would also like to give you a gift.’" 
1Kings13:8 But God's servant said to the king, ‘I could never go with you, even if you gave me half of your riches. I could not eat or drink anything while I am here." 
1Kings13:9 The Lord commanded me, “You must not eat or drink anything there. You must not return home on the same road that you came on.” ’" 
1Kings13:10 So God's servant started to travel home on a different road. He did not go on the same road that he came to Bethel. 
1Kings13:11 An old prophet lived in Bethel. His sons came home. They told him about everything that God's servant had done in Bethel that day. They told their father what God's servant had said to the king. 
1Kings13:12 Their father asked them, ‘Which road did he go home on?’ So his sons showed him the road that God's servant from Judah was on." 
1Kings13:13 Then the old prophet said to his sons, ‘Prepare my donkey for me to ride.’ When they had prepared the donkey, the old prophet got onto it." 
1Kings13:14 Then he rode along the road to find God's servant. He found him as he was sitting under an oak tree. The old prophet asked him, ‘Are you the servant of God from Judah?’ He answered, ‘I am.’" 
1Kings13:15 The old prophet said to him, ‘Come to my home with me and eat some food.’" 
1Kings13:16 God's servant said, ‘I cannot go back with you. I cannot eat or drink anything with you in this place." 
1Kings13:17 The Lord commanded me, “You must not eat or drink anything there. You must not return home on the same road that you came on.” ’" 
1Kings13:18 The old prophet then said, ‘I am also a prophet, as you are. An angel gave me a message from the Lord. He said, “Bring the man back with you to your house. There, he can eat some food and drink some water.” ’ But what the old prophet said was a lie." 
1Kings13:19 So God's servant went back with him and he ate and drank in his house. 
1Kings13:20 While they were sitting together to eat, the Lord gave a message to the old prophet." 
1Kings13:21 He spoke this message to the servant of God who had come from Judah: ‘This is what the Lord says: You have not obeyed the Lord. You have not done what the Lord your God commanded you to do. 
1Kings13:22 He had told you, “You must not eat or drink anything in that place.” But you came back here to eat and to drink. As a result, they will not bury your body in the same place as your ancestors' grave.’" 
1Kings13:23 God's servant from Judah finished his meal. Then the old prophet prepared his donkey for him to ride. 
1Kings13:24 But as God's servant from Judah was travelling along the road, a lion attacked him. The lion killed him and it left his body on the road. The donkey and the lion stood beside the dead body." 
1Kings13:25 When some people came along the road, they saw the dead body as it lay there. The lion was standing beside the body. The people went back to Bethel, the city where the old prophet lived. They reported what they had seen on the road." 
1Kings13:26 The old prophet who had brought God's servant back to his house heard the news. He said, ‘That dead man is God's servant who did not obey the Lord. So the Lord has given him to the lion, to tear him to pieces and to kill him. The Lord had warned him that this would happen.’" 
1Kings13:27 The old prophet said to his sons, ‘Prepare my donkey for me to ride.’ So they did that." 
1Kings13:28 Then the old prophet went along the road and he found the body. It was lying on the road. The donkey and the lion were standing beside it. The lion had not eaten the body. It had not attacked the donkey. 
1Kings13:29 So the old prophet picked up the body of God's servant. He put it on the donkey. He brought it back to Bethel. He showed that he was very sad that the man had died and then he buried him. 
1Kings13:30 He put the body in the grave that he had prepared for himself. He and his sons were very upset, and they said, ‘Oh, my brother!’" 
1Kings13:31 When they had buried the man, the old prophet said to his sons, ‘When I die, bury me in the same grave where we buried the servant of God. Put my bones there, beside his bones." 
1Kings13:32 The Lord 's message that he spoke will certainly become true. He spoke against the altar in Bethel and against all the altars on the hills of Samaria's towns.’ 
1Kings13:33 Even after this happened, Jeroboam did not stop doing evil things. He chose ordinary people to be priests for the altars on the hills. If somebody wanted to become a priest, Jeroboam agreed to make him a priest." 
1Kings13:34 This sin caused Jeroboam's family to disappear from the earth. He would no longer have descendants to rule as kings. 
1Kings14:1 At that time, Jeroboam's son Abijah became ill." 
1Kings14:2 So Jeroboam said to his wife, ‘Change what you look like so that people will not recognize you as my wife. Then go to Shiloh. The prophet Ahijah lives there. He told me that I would rule the nation of Israel." 
1Kings14:3 Take ten loaves of bread with you. Also take some cakes and a pot of honey. When you visit Ahijah, he will tell you what will happen to our son.’" 
1Kings14:4 Jeroboam's wife did what he told her to do. She went to Ahijah's house in Shiloh. Ahijah could not see because he was very old. 
1Kings14:5 But the Lord had said to Ahijah, ‘Jeroboam's wife will come to visit you. Her son is ill and she will ask you what will happen to him. I will tell you what to say to her. When she comes, she will pretend that she is not the king's wife.’" 
1Kings14:6 Then Ahijah heard her as she walked through the door of his house. He said, ‘Come in, Jeroboam's wife! I know who you are, so do not pretend to be somebody else. The Lord has given me bad news to tell you." 
1Kings14:7 Go and say to Jeroboam, “This is what the Lord, Israel's God, says to you: I chose you from among my people, the Israelites, and I made you their ruler." 
1Kings14:8 I took Israel's kingdom away from David's family and I gave it to you. But you have not served me faithfully as my servant David did. He obeyed my commands. He was faithful to me and he always did the things that I say are right. 
1Kings14:9 But you have done more evil things than any of the kings who lived before you. You have made me very angry. You have used metal to make images of other gods that you could worship. You have turned away from me. 
1Kings14:10 Because of this, I will bring great trouble to Jeroboam's family. I will kill every male among his descendants in Israel, whoever they are. I will completely destroy Jeroboam's family, like someone burns a heap of rubbish!" 
1Kings14:11 If they die in the city, dogs will eat their bodies. If they die in the country, vultures will eat them. This is what the Lord has said will happen!”" 
1Kings14:12 But you, Jeroboam's wife, should go back home now. As soon as you arrive back in the city, the boy will die." 
1Kings14:13 All Israel will cry because of his death and they will bury him. He is the only person from Jeroboam's family that they will bury properly. He is the only one among Jeroboam's descendants who has pleased the Lord, Israel's God." 
1Kings14:14 The Lord himself will choose another king to rule Israel. That king will destroy Jeroboam's family. This will happen very soon, even today!" 
1Kings14:15 The Lord will attack the nation of Israel. He will shake it, as the wind shakes a reed that is growing in a stream. The Lord will remove the Israelites from this good land that he gave to their ancestors. He will take them to places beyond the Euphrates River. They made Asherah poles to worship, so the Lord became very angry with them." 
1Kings14:16 He will put Israel under the power of its enemies because of Jeroboam's sins. Jeroboam also caused Israel's people to do bad things.’ 
1Kings14:17 Then Jeroboam's wife left Ahijah's house. She went back to Tirzah. When she walked through the door of her house, the boy died." 
1Kings14:18 They buried him and all the Israelites cried because of his death. The Lord had told his servant the prophet Ahijah what would happen. And that is what happened. 
1Kings14:19 The other things that happened while Jeroboam was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about the battles that Jeroboam fought and how he ruled as king. 
1Kings14:20 Jeroboam ruled as king for 22 years. Then he died and they buried him beside his ancestors. His son Nadab became king after him. 
1Kings14:21 King Solomon's son, Rehoboam, ruled Judah as king. He was 41 years old when he became king. He ruled for 17 years in Jerusalem. That was the city that the Lord had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel. He chose it as the place where people would give honour to his name. Rehoboam's mother was an Ammonite woman. Her name was Naamah." 
1Kings14:22 The people of Judah did things that the Lord said were evil. Their sins caused the Lord to be very angry. They did worse things than their ancestors had done. 
1Kings14:23 They built altars on the hills for themselves. They put up stone pillars and Asherah poles to worship. They did this on every high hill and under every big tree. 
1Kings14:24 In Judah there were even temples which had male prostitutes. The people of Judah did the same evil things as the Canaanite nations did. The Lord had chased those people out of the land so that the Israelites could live there. 
1Kings14:25 In the fifth year that Rehoboam was king, King Shishak of Egypt attacked Jerusalem." 
1Kings14:26 He took away the valuable things that were in the Lord 's temple and in the king's palace. He took everything for himself. That included the gold shields that King Solomon had made. 
1Kings14:27 So Rehoboam used bronze to make other shields instead. He gave them to the officers of his own soldiers. These soldiers stood as guards at the entrance of the king's palace. 
1Kings14:28 Every time that the king went to the Lord 's temple, the guards carried the shields. After that, they took them back to the guards' room where they stored them." 
1Kings14:29 The other things that happened while Rehoboam was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about everything that King Rehoboam did. 
1Kings14:30 There was always a war between the armies of Rehoboam and Jeroboam. 
1Kings14:31 Rehoboam died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David. Rehoboam's mother was an Ammonite woman. Her name was Naamah. Rehoboam's son Abijah became king after him. 
1Kings15:1 Abijah became king of Judah after Nebat's son Jeroboam had been king of Israel for 18 years. 
1Kings15:2 Abijah ruled in Jerusalem as king for three years. His mother's name was Maakah. She was the daughter of Abishalom. 
1Kings15:3 Abijah did the same bad things that his father had done before him. He did not serve the Lord his God faithfully, as his ancestor King David had done." 
1Kings15:4 But the Lord his God gave Abijah a son to rule after him in Jerusalem. He also made Jerusalem a strong city. The Lord did that because of his promise to David. 
1Kings15:5 David had always done things that pleased the Lord. David had obeyed the Lord 's commands in his whole life, except what he did to Uriah, the Hittite man." 
1Kings15:6 During Abijah's whole life, there was a war between the armies of Rehoboam and Jeroboam." 
1Kings15:7 The other things that happened while Abijah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about all the things that Abijah did. While Abijah was king, there was war between his army and Jeroboam's army." 
1Kings15:8 Abijah died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David. Abijah's son Asa became king after him. 
1Kings15:9 Asa became king of Judah when Jeroboam had been king of Israel for 20 years. 
1Kings15:10 Asa ruled in Jerusalem as king for 41 years. His grandmother was Maakah. She was the daughter of Abishalom. 
1Kings15:11 Asa did things that pleased the Lord, as his ancestor King David had done." 
1Kings15:12 He removed the male prostitutes from the altars on the hills. He sent them out of Judah. He removed all the useless idols that his ancestors had made. 
1Kings15:13 He also told his grandmother Maakah that she could no longer have authority as the Queen Mother. This was because she had made a disgusting Asherah pole to worship. Asa cut down the Asherah pole and he burned it in the Kidron Valley. 
1Kings15:14 Asa did not remove the altars on all the hills, but he served the Lord faithfully for his whole life." 
1Kings15:15 He brought into the Lord 's temple the things that he and his father had made as gifts to the Lord. They used silver and gold to make some of these things. 
1Kings15:16 There was always a war between King Asa of Judah and King Baasha of Israel while they ruled. 
1Kings15:17 One time, Baasha attacked Judah. He put a group of his soldiers in Ramah and he made it a strong town. As a result, nobody could travel into Judah or out of Judah, where King Asa ruled." 
1Kings15:18 So Asa took all the silver and gold that they had stored in his palace and in the Lord 's temple. He gave it to his servants. He told them to take it to Ben-Hadad, king of Syria, who lived in Damascus. Ben-Hadad's father was Tabrimmon and his grandfather was Hezion." 
1Kings15:19 Asa sent this message to Ben-Hadad: ‘We should make an agreement to be friends, as our fathers did. I am sending you this gift of silver and gold. Please stop being friends with Baasha, king of Israel. If you no longer help him, he will have to take his soldiers out of my country.’" 
1Kings15:20 Ben-Hadad agreed to do what King Asa asked him to do. He sent his army with its leaders to attack towns in Israel. They won the battles at Ijon, Dan, Abel-Beth-Maakah, as well as the region of Kinnereth and the land of Naphtali." 
1Kings15:21 When King Baasha heard this news, he stopped the work in Ramah. He left there and he went to live in Tirzah." 
1Kings15:22 Then King Asa commanded all the men in Judah to do some hard work. Everyone had to carry away from Ramah all the big stones and the wood that Baasha had been using there. Then King Asa used those things to make Geba (in Benjamin's land) and Mizpah strong towns again. 
1Kings15:23 The other things that happened while Asa was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about Asa's power and all the great things that he did. It also tells about the cities that he built. When Asa became an old man he had a disease in his feet. 
1Kings15:24 Asa died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David, his ancestor. Asa's son Jehoshaphat became king after him." 
1Kings15:25 When Asa had been king of Judah for two years, Jeroboam's son became king of Israel. Nadab ruled Israel as king for two years." 
1Kings15:26 He did things that the Lord said were evil. He did the same bad things that his father had done. He also caused the Israelites to do bad things. 
1Kings15:27 Baasha decided to kill King Nadab. Baasha was Ahijah's son and he belonged to Issachar's tribe. This happened while Nadab and Israel's army were attacking Gibbethon, a town of the Philistines." 
1Kings15:28 Baasha killed King Nadab in the third year that Asa was king of Judah. Baasha became king of Israel instead of Nadab. 
1Kings15:29 When Baasha became king, he killed all Jeroboam's descendants. He did not leave anyone in Jeroboam's family alive. He killed them all. The Lord had already said that this would happen. He had given the message to his servant Ahijah, who was from Shiloh." 
1Kings15:30 This happened because of Jeroboam's sins, and the sins which he caused the Israelites to do. These sins had made the Lord, Israel's God, very angry." 
1Kings15:31 The other things that happened while Nadab was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about all the things that Nadab did. 
1Kings15:32 There was always a war between the armies of King Asa and King Nadab. 
1Kings15:33 In the third year that Asa was king of Judah, Ahijah's son Baasha became the king of all Israel. He was living in Tirzah. Baasha ruled as king for 24 years." 
1Kings15:34 Baasha did things that the Lord said were evil. He did the same sins that Jeroboam had done. He also caused the Israelites to do those bad things. 
1Kings16:1 Then God gave a message to Hanani's son Jehu about punishment for King Baasha. 
1Kings16:2 This was the message: ‘Even though you were not an important person, I made you the leader of my people, the Israelites. But then you did all the bad things that Jeroboam did! Also, you caused my people the Israelites to do bad things. Their sins have caused me to become very angry." 
1Kings16:3 So now I am ready to destroy you and your family. I will remove your family as I did to the family of Nebat's son Jeroboam. 
1Kings16:4 If people of your family die in the city, dogs will eat their bodies. If they die in the country, vultures will eat them.’" 
1Kings16:5 The other things that happened while Baasha was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about all the things that Baasha did and about his power. 
1Kings16:6 Baasha died and they buried him in Tirzah. His son Elah became king after him. 
1Kings16:7 Hanani's son Jehu, the prophet, had received a message from the Lord about Baasha and his family. Baasha had done many things that the Lord said were evil, in the same way that Jeroboam had done. Baasha had even destroyed Jeroboam's whole family. These bad things made the Lord very angry." 
1Kings16:8 When Asa had been king of Judah for 26 years, Baasha's son Elah became king of Israel. He ruled as king in Tirzah for two years." 
1Kings16:9 Zimri was one of Elah's officers. He had authority over half of Elah's chariots. Zimri decided to kill King Elah. One day, Elah was in the home of a man called Arza, an officer who had authority over the king's palace in Tirzah. Elah was drinking too much wine and he became drunk." 
1Kings16:10 Zimri came in to Arza's house. He hit Elah and he killed him. When this happened, Asa had been king of Judah for 27 years. Zimri made himself king instead of Elah." 
1Kings16:11 When Zimri began to rule Israel as king, he killed everybody in Baasha's family. He did not leave any of Baasha's male relatives alive. He even killed Baasha's friends." 
1Kings16:12 Zimri killed everybody in Baasha's family, as the Lord had said it would happen. The prophet Jehu had spoken the Lord 's message against Baasha." 
1Kings16:13 This happened because of all the sins that Baasha and his son Elah had done. They had also caused the Israelites to do bad things. The useless idols that they worshipped had made the Lord, Israel's God, very angry." 
1Kings16:14 The other things that happened while Elah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about all the things that Elah did. 
1Kings16:15 When Asa had been king of Judah for 27 years, Zimri became king of Israel. He ruled as king in Tirzah for seven days. When Zimri killed King Elah, Israel's army was attacking a Philistine town called Gibbethon." 
1Kings16:16 The army received this message: ‘Zimri has turned against the king and he has killed King Elah.’ Omri was the officer who led Israel's army. That day, Omri's soldiers decided to make Omri the king of Israel, while they were in their camp at Gibbethon." 
1Kings16:17 So Omri and all Israel's army left Gibbethon and they went to attack Tirzah. 
1Kings16:18 Zimri saw that Omri had taken power over the city. So he went into the strong buildings of the king's palace. He lit a fire to burn the palace all around him. Zimri himself died in the fire. 
1Kings16:19 This happened because of the sins that he had done. He did things that the Lord says are evil. He did the same bad things that Jeroboam had done. He also caused the Israelites to continue doing bad things. 
1Kings16:20 The other things that happened while Zimri was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about how he killed King Elah, as well as the other things that he did." 
1Kings16:21 At that time, half of the Israelite people wanted Omri to be their king. But half of the people wanted Ginath's son Tibni to be their king. The two groups of people could not agree together." 
1Kings16:22 But the group who wanted Omri to be king was stronger than the other group. As a result, Tibni died. Then Omri became the king of Israel." 
1Kings16:23 Omri became king of Israel when Asa had been king of Judah for 31 years. Omri ruled Israel as king for 12 years. He lived in Tirzah for the first six years. 
1Kings16:24 Then Omri bought a hill from a man called Shemer. He paid Shemer 70 kilograms of silver for it. He built a city on the hill and he called the city Samaria. That was because the hill had belonged to Shemer. 
1Kings16:25 But Omri did many things that the Lord said were evil. He did more evil things than all the kings of Israel who lived before him. 
1Kings16:26 He did the same bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done and that he caused the Israelites to do. The useless idols that they worshipped caused the Lord, Israel's God, to be very angry." 
1Kings16:27 The other things that happened while Omri was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about the things that he did and the power that he had. 
1Kings16:28 Omri died and they buried him in Samaria. His son Ahab became king of Israel after him. 
1Kings16:29 Omri's son Ahab became king of Israel when Asa had been king of Judah for 38 years. Ahab ruled Israel as king in Samaria for 22 years. 
1Kings16:30 Omri's son Ahab did many things that the Lord said were evil. He did more evil things than all the kings of Israel who lived before him. 
1Kings16:31 He did the same bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. He even did something that was worse than the things that Jeroboam had done. He married Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbaal, the king of Sidon. Ahab served Baal as his god and he worshipped him." 
1Kings16:32 Ahab built a temple for Baal in Samaria. He made an altar for Baal in this temple. 
1Kings16:33 Ahab also made an Asherah pole to worship. He did many bad things that made the Lord, Israel's God, angry. He did more bad things than all the kings of Israel who lived before him." 
1Kings16:34 While Ahab ruled as king, Hiel built Jericho city again. Hiel came from Bethel. Abiram, his firstborn son, died when Hiel built the city's foundation. Segub, his youngest son, died when he built the gates in the city's wall. The Lord had told Nun's son Joshua that this would happen." 
1Kings16:34 While Ahab ruled as king, Hiel built Jericho city again. Hiel came from Bethel. Abiram, his firstborn son, died when Hiel built the city's foundation. Segub, his youngest son, died when he built the gates in the city's wall. The Lord had told Nun's son Joshua that this would happen." 
1Kings17:1 There was a prophet called Elijah who came from Tishbe in Gilead. He said to King Ahab, ‘I am a servant of the Lord, Israel's God. As surely as God lives, there will be no rain or dew for the next few years. Nothing will make the ground wet until I command it to happen.’" 
1Kings17:2 Then the Lord told Elijah," 
1Kings17:3 ‘Leave here! Go to the east. Hide in the Kerith Valley, east of the Jordan River." 
1Kings17:4 You will drink water from the stream. I have also commanded the ravens to feed you there.’ 
1Kings17:5 Elijah obeyed the Lord 's message. He went to live in the Kerith Valley, near the Jordan River." 
1Kings17:6 The ravens brought him bread and meat to eat, every morning and every evening. He drank water from the stream." 
1Kings17:7 After some time the stream became dry, because there had been no rain in the whole land." 
1Kings17:8 Then the Lord told Elijah," 
1Kings17:9 ‘Go now to Zarephath in the region of Sidon. Go and live there. I have told a widow who lives there that she must give you food to eat.’ 
1Kings17:10 So Elijah went to Zarephath. When he arrived at the town gate, he met a widow. She was picking up some sticks. Elijah asked her, ‘Please bring me some water in a jar, so that I can drink it.’" 
1Kings17:11 While she went to get it, he said, ‘Please bring me a piece of bread too.’" 
1Kings17:12 She replied, ‘As surely as the Lord your God lives, I do not have any bread. I have only a small amount of flour in a bowl and some olive oil in a small jar. I am now picking up a few sticks to take home. Then I will cook a meal for myself and for my son. We will eat it. Then we will die because there is nothing else to eat.’" 
1Kings17:13 Elijah said to her, ‘Do not be afraid. Go home and do what you have said. But first, use some of your flour to make a small piece of bread for me. Then bring it to me. After that, you should make something for yourself and for your son." 
1Kings17:14 This is what the Lord, Israel's God, says: “You will not use all the flour in your bowl. You will not use all the oil in your jar. They will not become empty until the day when the Lord causes rain to fall on the ground again.” ’" 
1Kings17:15 Then the widow went home. She did what Elijah had told her to do. After that, there was enough food every day for Elijah and for the widow and her family." 
1Kings17:16 The flour in the bowl and the olive oil in the jar never finished. The Lord had promised Elijah that this would happen. 
1Kings17:17 Some time after that, the widow's son became ill. He became very ill until he could no longer breathe." 
1Kings17:18 The woman said to Elijah, ‘Servant of God, why have you come to hurt me like this? Did you come to kill my son so that I would remember all my sins?’" 
1Kings17:19 Elijah replied, ‘Give your son to me.’ He took her son from her arms. He carried the boy upstairs, to the room where he was staying. He put the boy down to lie on his bed." 
1Kings17:20 Then Elijah prayed to the Lord, ‘ Lord, my God! Why have you caused such bad trouble to happen to this kind widow? I came to stay with her and now you have killed her son!’" 
1Kings17:21 Elijah lay with his body across the boy. He did that three times. He prayed to the Lord, ‘ Lord, my God, please cause this boy's life to return to him!’" 
1Kings17:22 The Lord answered Elijah's prayer. The boy started to breathe again. He was alive! 
1Kings17:23 Elijah picked up the boy. He carried him down from his room into the house. He gave the boy to his mother and he said, ‘Look! Your son is alive!’" 
1Kings17:24 Then the woman said to Elijah, ‘Now I know that you are a servant of God. The words that you speak are truly a message from the Lord.’" 
1Kings18:1 When there had been no rain for three years, the Lord told Elijah, ‘Go and meet King Ahab. After that, I will send rain to make the ground wet again.’" 
1Kings18:2 So Elijah went to meet Ahab. At that time, the famine in Samaria was very bad." 
1Kings18:3 King Ahab told his officer Obadiah to come and meet him. Obadiah had authority over the king's palace. Obadiah obeyed the Lord very faithfully. 
1Kings18:3 King Ahab told his officer Obadiah to come and meet him. Obadiah had authority over the king's palace. Obadiah obeyed the Lord very faithfully. 
1Kings18:4 At one time, Ahab's wife Jezebel was killing many of the Lord 's prophets. While she was doing this, Obadiah had kept 100 prophets safe. He had hidden them in two caves, with 50 prophets in each cave. He had also given them food and water." 
1Kings18:4 At one time, Ahab's wife Jezebel was killing many of the Lord 's prophets. While she was doing this, Obadiah had kept 100 prophets safe. He had hidden them in two caves, with 50 prophets in each cave. He had also given them food and water." 
1Kings18:5 Now Ahab said to Obadiah, ‘Go through all the land to where there are valleys and springs of water. See if we can find some grass to feed the horses and mules. Then we will not have to kill our animals.’" 
1Kings18:5 Now Ahab said to Obadiah, ‘Go through all the land to where there are valleys and springs of water. See if we can find some grass to feed the horses and mules. Then we will not have to kill our animals.’" 
1Kings18:6 So Ahab and Obadiah went to different parts of the country. Ahab went in one direction and Obadiah went in another direction. 
1Kings18:6 So Ahab and Obadiah went to different parts of the country. Ahab went in one direction and Obadiah went in another direction. 
1Kings18:7 While Obadiah was walking along, Elijah met him. Obadiah recognized Elijah. He bent his body down towards the ground in front of Elijah. Obadiah said, ‘Is it really you, my master, Elijah?’" 
1Kings18:7 While Obadiah was walking along, Elijah met him. Obadiah recognized Elijah. He bent his body down towards the ground in front of Elijah. Obadiah said, ‘Is it really you, my master, Elijah?’" 
1Kings18:8 Elijah replied. ‘Yes! Now go and tell your master that Elijah is here again.’ 
1Kings18:9 Obadiah said, ‘Why are you sending me to my death? What have I done to hurt you? Ahab will certainly kill me if I tell him you are here!" 
1Kings18:9 Obadiah said, ‘Why are you sending me to my death? What have I done to hurt you? Ahab will certainly kill me if I tell him you are here!" 
1Kings18:10 As surely as the Lord your God lives, my master, King Ahab, has sent people everywhere to look for you. He has looked in every nation and every kingdom. When they say, “Elijah is not here!” he makes them promise that they are speaking the truth." 
1Kings18:11 But now you are telling me to go to my master. You want me to say, “Elijah is here!”" 
1Kings18:12 When I leave you, I do not know where the Lord 's Spirit will take you. I may not be able to find you again. Then if I tell Ahab that I have seen you, he still will not find you. So he will kill me. But I have served the Lord faithfully since I was a young man." 
1Kings18:13 You know, sir, about what I did when Jezebel was killing the Lord 's prophets. I hid 100 prophets in two caves. I put 50 prophets in each cave. I gave them food and water." 
1Kings18:14 But now you tell me to go to my master and say, “Elijah is here!” I know that he will kill me!’" 
1Kings18:15 Elijah said, ‘I serve the Lord Almighty. As surely as he lives, I promise that I will meet with King Ahab today.’" 
1Kings18:16 So Obadiah went to King Ahab. He told Ahab where Elijah was. So Ahab went to meet Elijah. 
1Kings18:16 So Obadiah went to King Ahab. He told Ahab where Elijah was. So Ahab went to meet Elijah. 
1Kings18:17 When Ahab saw Elijah, he said to him, ‘Is that really you, the man who brings trouble to Israel?’" 
1Kings18:18 Elijah replied, ‘I have not brought trouble to Israel. But you and your father's family have done that. You have refused to obey the Lord 's commands. Instead, you have worshipped the false gods of Baal." 
1Kings18:19 Now, tell people from all over Israel to come and meet me. They must meet me on Mount Carmel. Also, bring the 450 prophets who serve Baal and the 400 prophets of Asherah that Jezebel provides with food.’" 
1Kings18:20 So Ahab sent men to take that message to all the Israelites. He brought the prophets to meet together at Mount Carmel. 
1Kings18:21 Elijah stood up in front of the people and he said, ‘You must now decide who to worship! If the Lord is the true God, worship him. But if Baal is God, worship him.’ But the people said nothing." 
1Kings18:22 Then Elijah said to them, ‘I am the only prophet of the Lord who is still here. But Baal has 450 prophets here." 
1Kings18:23 Now go and bring two bulls for us. Baal's prophets can choose one bull for themselves. Then they must cut it into pieces. They must put the pieces on the wood on the altar. But they must not light the fire. After that, I will prepare the other bull and I will put it on the wood. But I will not light the fire." 
1Kings18:24 Then, you pray to your god, and I will pray to the Lord. The god who answers and who sends fire to light the wood, he is the true God!’ All the people agreed that this was a good idea." 
1Kings18:25 Elijah said to Baal's prophets, ‘There are many of you, so choose one of the bulls and prepare it first. Pray to your god, but do not light the fire.’" 
1Kings18:26 So Baal's prophets took a bull as Elijah had told them. They prepared it and they put it on the altar that they had made. Then they prayed to Baal all the time, from morning until noon. They shouted, ‘Baal, answer us!’ But there was no voice that answered them. They jumped and they danced around the altar." 
1Kings18:27 At noon, Elijah began to laugh at them. ‘Shout louder!’ he said. ‘He is a god, isn't he? Maybe he is thinking about something else! Or has he left the room for a moment? Maybe he has gone away from home on a journey. Or perhaps he is asleep and you need to wake him up!’" 
1Kings18:28 So Baal's prophets shouted louder. They cut themselves with swords and knives, as their customs taught them to do. Soon, there was blood all over them." 
1Kings18:29 They continued to shout and dance all the afternoon, until the time of the evening offering. But there was no voice to reply. There was no answer at all." 
1Kings18:30 Then Elijah said to all the people, ‘Come nearer to me.’ When they came, Elijah mended the Lord 's altar that had broken into pieces." 
1Kings18:31 Elijah picked up 12 stones, one for each of the tribes that were Jacob's descendants. Jacob was the man that the Lord had given the new name ‘Israel’." 
1Kings18:32 Elijah used the 12 stones to build an altar that would give honour to the Lord. He dug a hole in the ground all around it. The hole was big enough to contain 15 litres of seeds. 
1Kings18:33 Elijah put wood on the altar. He cut the bull into pieces and he put the pieces on top of the wood. Then he said to the people, ‘Fill four large jars with water. Pour the water all over the offering and the wood.’" 
1Kings18:34 After they did that, Elijah told them, ‘Do it again!’ So they did it again. Then he told them, ‘Do it a third time!’ So they did it for the third time." 
1Kings18:35 The water poured down all the sides of the altar. It filled the hole that was around the altar. 
1Kings18:36 The time came for the evening offering. Then God's prophet Elijah came to the front of the altar. He prayed, ‘ Lord, you are the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel. Show people clearly today that you are the God who rules over Israel. Show that I am your servant. Show that I have done all these things because you commanded me to do them." 
1Kings18:37 Please answer me, Lord! Answer me so that these people will know that you, Lord, are the true God. They will know that you have caused them to turn back to serve you again.’" 
1Kings18:38 Then the Lord sent fire down from above. It burned the sacrifice, the wood, the stones and the dirt. It made all the water in the hole around the altar disappear!" 
1Kings18:39 When all the people saw this, they threw themselves down on the ground. They shouted, ‘The Lord is the true God! Yes, the Lord is God!’" 
1Kings18:40 Then Elijah said, ‘Take hold of Baal's prophets! Do not let any of them run away!’ So they caught them. Then Elijah took the prophets down to the Kishon Valley. There, he punished them with death." 
1Kings18:41 Then Elijah said to Ahab, ‘Go now and have some food to eat. Go quickly, because there is the sound of heavy rain that is coming.’" 
1Kings18:42 So Ahab went away to eat and to drink. But Elijah climbed to the top of Mount Carmel. He bent low down towards the ground. He put his face between his knees. 
1Kings18:43 Elijah said to his servant, ‘Go up and look towards the sea.’ So his servant did that. He said to Elijah, ‘There is nothing to see there.’ Elijah told his servant seven times, ‘Go back and look again.’" 
1Kings18:44 The seventh time, the servant said, ‘I can see a small cloud above the sea that is coming this way. It is only as big as a man's hand.’ So Elijah said, ‘Go and tell Ahab, “Prepare your chariot now! Go back down quickly before the rain stops you.” ’" 
1Kings18:45 As Elijah said this, the sky became very dark with black clouds. The wind started to blow and there was a heavy storm of rain. King Ahab rode away towards Jezreel." 
1Kings18:46 Then the Lord gave Elijah special power. Elijah tied his robe into his belt and he ran all the way to Jezreel. Ahab followed him. 
1Kings19:1 King Ahab told Jezebel about everything that Elijah had done. He told her how Elijah had killed all Baal's prophets with a sword. 
1Kings19:2 So Jezebel sent someone with this message to Elijah: ‘By this time tomorrow, I will make sure that you are dead, the same as Baal's prophets! If I do not do that, I pray that the gods will kill me instead.’" 
1Kings19:3 Elijah became very afraid. He ran away to save his life. He arrived at Beersheba in Judah. He left his servant there. 
1Kings19:4 Then Elijah went into the desert by himself. He travelled for about a day. He found a small tree there and he sat down under it. He prayed that he might die. He said, ‘ Lord, I have had enough trouble! Take my life from me. It is no better for me here than to be with my dead ancestors.’" 
1Kings19:5 Then he lay down under the tree and he slept. Suddenly, an angel came and touched him. The angel said, ‘Get up and eat something.’" 
1Kings19:6 When Elijah looked, he saw some bread near his head. Someone had baked it on a fire. There was also a jar of water. So he ate the bread and he drank the water. Then he lay down again to sleep." 
1Kings19:7 The angel of the came back a second time. He touched Elijah and he said, ‘Get up and eat more food. Then you will be strong enough to go on a long journey.’" 
1Kings19:8 So Elijah got up. He ate the food and he drank the water. The meal made him strong enough to travel for 40 days and 40 nights. He travelled to Sinai, the mountain of God." 
1Kings19:9 Elijah went into a cave on Mount Sinai and he stayed there all night. Suddenly, the Lord spoke to Elijah. He asked Elijah, ‘Elijah, why have you come here?’" 
1Kings19:10 Elijah replied, ‘The Israelites have turned away from the covenant that you made with them. They have destroyed your altars. They have killed your prophets with swords. But I have always served the Lord God Almighty faithfully. Now I am the only prophet that is still alive and they are trying to kill me too.’" 
1Kings19:11 The Lord said, ‘Go out from the cave and stand on the mountain, in front of me. I, the Lord, will pass in front of you.’ Then a very strong wind broke the mountain apart. It broke the rocks into pieces as the Lord came near. But the Lord was not in the wind. After the wind, there was an earthquake. But the Lord was not in the earthquake." 
1Kings19:12 After the earthquake, there was a fire. But the Lord was not in the fire. After the fire, there was a very quiet voice." 
1Kings19:13 When Elijah heard that, he covered his face with his robe. He went out and he stood at the entrance of the cave. Then a voice said to him, ‘Elijah, why have you come here?’" 
1Kings19:14 Elijah said, ‘The Israelites have turned away from the covenant that you made with them. They have destroyed your altars. They have killed your prophets with swords. But I have always served the Lord God Almighty faithfully. Now I am the only prophet that is still alive and they are trying to kill me too.’" 
1Kings19:15 The Lord said to Elijah, ‘Go back again along the way that you came. Go to the desert which is near Damascus. When you arrive there, anoint Hazael to make him king of Syria." 
1Kings19:16 You must also anoint Nimshi's grandson Jehu to make him king of Israel. Then anoint Shaphat's son Elisha from Abel Meholah to be my prophet after you. 
1Kings19:17 Jehu's army will kill anyone that Hazael's army does not kill. Then Elisha will kill anyone who escapes from Jehu. 
1Kings19:18 But remember this: I still have 7,000 people in Israel who have not worshipped Baal. They have not kissed his idols.’" 
1Kings19:19 Elijah went away from Sinai. He found Shaphat's son, Elisha. Elisha was ploughing a field with 12 pairs of oxen. Elisha himself was using the 12th pair of oxen to plough. Elijah went to Elisha and he threw his robe over him." 
1Kings19:20 So Elisha left his oxen in the field and he ran after Elijah. Elisha said, ‘Let me go home first to kiss my father and my mother and say “goodbye”. Then I will come with you.’ Elijah replied, ‘Yes, go back home. But do not forget about what I have done to you.’" 
1Kings19:21 So Elisha went back to his field. He took his pair of oxen and he killed them as a sacrifice. He burned wood from the plough to cook the meat. He gave the meat to the people who were there and they ate it. Then he left home to go with Elijah and to become his helper. 
1Kings20:1 Ben-Hadad was the king of Syria. He got all his army together. 32 other kings with their horses and chariots joined with him. He went to attack the city of Samaria. He put his army all around it and then he attacked it. 
1Kings20:2 He sent men to take a message to Ahab, the king of Israel, who was in the city." 
1Kings20:3 The message said: ‘This message is from King Ben-Hadad. He says, “Your silver and your gold now belong to me. Your best wives and your strongest children will also be mine.” ’" 
1Kings20:4 The king of Israel replied, ‘My master, the king, I agree with what you have said. I, and everything that I have, belongs to you.’" 
1Kings20:5 Ben-Hadad's men then took another message to Ahab. They said to him, ‘This is what Ben-Hadad says: “I already told you that you must give me your silver, your gold, your wives and your children." 
1Kings20:6 At this time tomorrow, I will send my officers to look for things in your palace. They will also look in the houses of your officers. They will take away everything that is valuable.” ’" 
1Kings20:7 Then King Ahab told all the leaders of Israel to come to him. He said to them, ‘See what this man is doing! He wants to cause trouble! He asked me to give him my wives, my children, my silver and my gold. And I did not refuse to do it.’" 
1Kings20:8 The leaders and the people answered King Ahab, ‘Do not listen to that man. Do not agree to do what he is asking for.’" 
1Kings20:9 So King Ahab said to the men who brought the messages from King Ben-Hadad, ‘Say this to my master, the king of Syria: “I agree to do everything that you asked for the first time. But I will not let you take the other things that you want.” ’ So the men took Ahab's answer back to Ben-Hadad." 
1Kings20:10 Then Ben-Hadad sent men with another message to Ahab. He said, ‘I promise that my soldiers will completely destroy Samaria! There will be nothing left! There will not even be enough dirt to fill the hands of each of my soldiers. I pray that the gods will punish me very much if that does not happen!’" 
1Kings20:11 The king of Israel replied, ‘Tell King Ben-Hadad, “Do not boast when you are preparing for a battle. Wait until the battle has finished and you know that you have won.” ’" 
1Kings20:12 When Ben-Hadad received Ahab's message, he and the other kings were drinking wine in their tents. Ben-Hadad told his officers, ‘Prepare to attack!’ So they prepared to attack the city of Samaria." 
1Kings20:13 Then a prophet came to Ahab, the king of Israel. He said, ‘The Lord says this to you: “Look at Ben-Hadad's great army! Today I will put them under your power. Then you will know that I am the Lord.” ’" 
1Kings20:14 King Ahab asked, ‘But who will fight this battle?’ The prophet answered, ‘This is what the Lord says: “The young soldiers who are under the authority of each region's officer will do it.” ’ Then Ahab asked, ‘Who will lead them into the battle?’ The prophet answered, ‘You will do that.’" 
1Kings20:15 So Ahab brought together the young soldiers of each region. There were 232 of them. Then he brought together the whole Israelite army. There were 7,000 of them." 
1Kings20:16 The soldiers marched out of Samaria at noon. Ben-Hadad and the 32 other kings were still drinking in their tents. They were drunk. 
1Kings20:17 The young soldiers of each region's officers went in front of the Israelite army. Ben-Hadad had sent men out to watch the Israelites. They told him, ‘Men are marching out from Samaria.’" 
1Kings20:18 Ben-Hadad commanded, ‘If they are coming to make peace with me, catch them alive. If they have come out to fight a battle, do the same thing.’" 
1Kings20:19 The Israelites marched out of the city as the young soldiers led the whole army. 
1Kings20:20 Each of the Israelite soldiers killed one of the enemy's soldiers. Then the Syrian soldiers ran away as the Israelites chased them. Ben-Hadad, the king of Syria, rode away on his horse and he escaped. Some of his soldiers who rode on horses went with him." 
1Kings20:21 Then the king of Israel came out of the city and he attacked the Syrian horses and chariots. He destroyed them and he won the battle against the Syrian army. 
1Kings20:22 After the battle, the prophet came to the king of Israel again. He said to him, ‘Now go and make your army strong. Decide what you need to do. Do this, because next spring the king of Syria will attack you again.’" 
1Kings20:23 At the same time, some of the king of Syria's officers said to him, ‘The gods of the Israelites are gods who live in the hills. That is why the Israelites were too strong for us. But if we fight them on the lower ground, we will surely be stronger than them." 
1Kings20:24 You should do this: Remove all the other kings. Put your own officers to lead the army instead. 
1Kings20:25 Bring together enough men to make an army as big as the one that lost the battle. There must be the same number of horses and chariots. Then we will fight the Israelites on the low ground. If we do that, we will surely be stronger than them.’ Ben-Hadad agreed with them. He did what they had suggested." 
1Kings20:26 The next spring, King Ben-Hadad brought together the men for his army. The Syrian army marched to Aphek to fight against the Israelites." 
1Kings20:27 King Ahab brought together the Israelite army and he gave them food and weapons. Then they marched out to fight against the Syrian army. The Israelite soldiers stood there in two groups. They looked like two small groups of goats! The Syrian soldiers were so many that they covered all the land around. 
1Kings20:28 God's servant, the prophet, went to the king of Israel. He said to the king, ‘This is what the Lord says: “The Syrians think that the Lord is a god who lives only in the hills. They think that he has no authority in the valleys. But I will give you power over all their great army. Then you will know that I am the Lord.” ’" 
1Kings20:29 For seven days, the two armies stayed in their camps where they could see each other. On the seventh day, the battle started. The Israelites killed 100,000 Syrian soldiers on that one day." 
1Kings20:30 The other soldiers ran back to Aphek. When they went into the city, the city wall fell on 27,000 of them. King Ben-Hadad also ran into the city. He hid in a room at the back of a house." 
1Kings20:31 Some of Ben-Hadad's officers said to him, ‘We have heard that the family of kings who rule Israel are kind men. We should show that we are sorry. We will tie sackcloth around our bodies. We will put ropes around our heads. Then maybe King Ahab will let you live.’" 
1Kings20:32 So they tied sackcloth around themselves. They put ropes around their heads. They went to the king of Israel and they said, ‘Your servant Ben-Hadad says, “Please let me live.” ’ King Ahab asked, ‘Is Ben-Hadad still alive? He is like my own brother.’" 
1Kings20:33 When Ben-Hadad's men heard this, they thought that it was a friendly answer. So they quickly agreed, ‘Yes! Ben-Hadad is like your own brother.’ King Ahab said, ‘Go and bring him here.’ So Ben-Hadad came out from Aphek city. Ahab took him up into his chariot." 
1Kings20:34 Ben-Hadad said, ‘I will give back to you the cities that my father took from your father. Your traders can have their own markets in Damascus, as my father had in Samaria.’ Ahab answered, ‘If you do that, I will agree to let you go as a free man.’ So King Ahab made an agreement with King Ben-Hadad. Then he let him go home." 
1Kings20:35 At this time, the Lord gave a message to a prophet who belonged to a group of prophets. He told the prophet to say to one of his friends, ‘Hit me with your stick.’ But his friend refused to do it." 
1Kings20:36 So the prophet said to him, ‘You have not obeyed the Lord 's command. Because of that, a lion will kill you as soon as you leave here.’ After the man left the prophet, a lion attacked him and it killed him." 
1Kings20:37 Then the prophet found another man. He said to him, ‘Please hit me!’ So the man hit him. He hurt the prophet very much." 
1Kings20:38 Then the prophet went and he stood beside the road. He was waiting for King Ahab to come. He tied a cloth over his eyes so that the king would not recognize him. 
1Kings20:39 When the king came along the road, the prophet shouted to him, ‘Please sir, I went to fight in the middle of the battle. Then someone brought an enemy soldier to me as a prisoner. He said to me, “Keep this prisoner safe. If he escapes for any reason, you will die! To save your life, you will have to pay 3,000 silver coins.”" 
1Kings20:40 But I had other things to do, sir. While I was doing them, the prisoner escaped.’ King Ahab replied, ‘What you have just said shows that you deserve your punishment.’" 
1Kings20:41 Then the prophet quickly took away the cloth that covered his eyes. The king recognized that the man was one of the prophets. 
1Kings20:42 The prophet said to the king, ‘This is what the Lord says to you: “I decided that a man should die, but you have let him go free. So you must pay for his life with your life. Your people will receive the trouble that his people deserved.” ’" 
1Kings20:43 So King Ahab of Israel went home to his palace in Samaria. He was angry and upset. 
1Kings21:1 Naboth lived in a town called Jezreel. He had a vineyard in Jezreel, near to the palace of Ahab, the king of Samaria." 
1Kings21:2 King Ahab said to Naboth, ‘Give me your vineyard. I want to grow vegetables in it, because it is near to my palace. I will give you a better vineyard instead of that one. Or, if you want, I will pay you its value in money.’" 
1Kings21:3 Naboth replied to Ahab, ‘The Lord will never allow that to happen! It belongs to me because it belonged to my ancestors.’" 
1Kings21:4 So Ahab went home to his palace. He was angry and upset because of what Naboth had said. He had said, ‘I will not sell you my vineyard that belonged to my ancestors.’ Ahab lay on his bed. He covered his face and he would not eat any food." 
1Kings21:5 Ahab's wife, Jezebel, came in to his room. She asked him, ‘Why are you so upset? Why do you refuse to eat anything?’" 
1Kings21:6 Ahab answered her, ‘It is because of Naboth, the man from Jezreel. I said to him, “Sell your vineyard to me. Or, if you want, I will give you another vineyard instead of that one.” But he said, “I will not give you my vineyard.” ’" 
1Kings21:7 Jezebel said, ‘You are the king who rules Israel! Now get up from your bed and eat something. Do not be upset! I will get Naboth's vineyard for you.’" 
1Kings21:8 Jezebel wrote some letters as if King Ahab had written them. She used his special seal as a mark on them. Then she sent them to the older leaders and important men who lived in Jezreel with Naboth. 
1Kings21:9 This is what she wrote in those letters: ‘Choose a day for everyone to fast. Give Naboth a seat where the people can see him. 
1Kings21:10 Put two wicked men in seats near him. Tell them to accuse Naboth that he has insulted God and the king. Then take him out. Throw stones at him until he is dead.’ 
1Kings21:11 So the leaders and the important men who lived in Naboth's city, obeyed Jezebel. They did what she commanded them to do in the letters that she sent to them." 
1Kings21:12 They chose a day for the people to fast. They put Naboth in a seat where the people could see him. 
1Kings21:13 Then two wicked men came and they sat near to him. They accused Naboth so that all the people could hear them. They said, ‘Naboth has insulted God and the king.’ So the people took him outside the city. They threw stones at him until he was dead." 
1Kings21:14 Then the city's leaders sent a message to Jezebel. They told her, ‘The people have killed Naboth with stones.’" 
1Kings21:15 When Jezebel heard that Naboth was dead, she said to Ahab, ‘Get up from your bed! Go to Jezreel and take Naboth's vineyard for yourself. He refused to sell it to you when he was alive. But now he is dead.’" 
1Kings21:16 When Ahab knew that Naboth was dead, he got up from his bed. He went to Naboth's vineyard to take it for himself." 
1Kings21:17 After this, the Lord gave a message to Elijah, the prophet from Tishbe." 
1Kings21:18 He said to Elijah, ‘Go now to meet King Ahab of Israel who rules in Samaria. He is at Naboth's vineyard to take it as his own vineyard." 
1Kings21:19 Say to Ahab, “This is what the Lord says to you: You have murdered a man. You have taken the dead man's field for yourself.” Then say to him, “This is what the Lord says: In the place where the dogs drank Naboth's blood from the ground, dogs will drink your blood. Yes, they will drink your blood there too!” ’" 
1Kings21:20 When Elijah met Ahab, Ahab said to him, ‘So, my enemy, now you have found me!’ Elijah answered, ‘Yes, I have found you to warn you! You have decided to do things that the Lord says are evil." 
1Kings21:21 So the Lord says, “Now I will bring great trouble on you. I will destroy you and your family. I will kill every male among Ahab's descendants in Israel, whoever they are." 
1Kings21:22 I will destroy your family as I did to the family of Nebat's son Jeroboam and the family of Ahijah's son Baasha. I will do this because you have made me angry and you have caused Israel's people to do wrong things.” 
1Kings21:23 The Lord says this about Jezebel: “Dogs will eat Jezebel's dead body beside the city wall of Jezreel.” 
1Kings21:24 If people of Ahab's family die in the city, dogs will eat their bodies. If they die in the country, vultures will eat them.’" 
1Kings21:25 Ahab had decided to do everything that the Lord said was evil. He was more wicked than any other person who had lived. His wife Jezebel helped him to be like that. 
1Kings21:26 Ahab was so wicked that he worshipped useless idols, as the Amorites did. The Lord had chased those people out of the land so that the Israelites could live there." 
1Kings21:27 When Ahab heard Elijah's message, he tore his clothes into pieces. He dressed himself in sackcloth and he did not eat any food. He even wore sackcloth when he slept on his bed. He walked slowly with a sad face." 
1Kings21:28 Then the Lord said to Elijah," 
1Kings21:29 ‘You have surely seen that Ahab now respects me. Because he has become humble, I will not destroy his family while he is alive. I will wait until his son rules as king. Then I will bring great trouble on Ahab's descendants.’" 
1Kings22:1 There was no war between Syria and Israel for three years. 
1Kings22:2 But after three years, Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, went to visit the king of Israel." 
1Kings22:3 The king of Israel said to his leaders, ‘You know that Ramoth Gilead belongs to us. But we are not doing anything to take it back from the king of Syria.’" 
1Kings22:4 Then the king of Israel asked Jehoshaphat, ‘Will you go with me to attack Ramoth Gilead?’ Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, ‘Yes, we should work together! Use my soldiers and my horses as if they belonged to you.’" 
1Kings22:5 Then Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, ‘Before we go to fight, we must ask the Lord what we should do.’" 
1Kings22:6 So the king of Israel brought together about 400 prophets. He asked them, ‘Should I attack Ramoth Gilead, or not?’ They answered, ‘Yes, go and attack it, because the Lord God will give it to you, our king.’" 
1Kings22:7 But Jehoshaphat then asked, ‘Is there any other prophet of the Lord that we could ask?’" 
1Kings22:8 The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, ‘There is still one man. We could ask him what the Lord wants us to do. But I do not like him, because he never says that anything good will happen to me. He only says that I will have trouble. He is Imlah's son, Micaiah.’ Jehoshaphat said, ‘The king should not talk like that.’" 
1Kings22:9 So the king of Israel said to one of his officers, ‘Bring Imlah's son Micaiah here quickly.’" 
1Kings22:10 The king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, were each sitting on their thrones. They were wearing their royal clothes. They sat near the threshing floor at Samaria's city gate. All the prophets stood in front of them and they were speaking messages from God." 
1Kings22:11 Kenaanah's son Zedekiah had used iron to make sharp points like a bull's horns. He said, ‘This is what the Lord says: “With these sharp horns you will attack Syria's army. You will destroy them all.” ’" 
1Kings22:12 All the other prophets were speaking the same message. They said, ‘Attack Ramoth Gilead. You will win the fight. The Lord will give the city to you, our king.’" 
1Kings22:13 The man who had gone to bring Micaiah said to him, ‘All the other prophets are saying the same thing. They say that the king will win the fight. So you must agree with what they are saying. Promise that something good will happen.’" 
1Kings22:14 But Micaiah said, ‘I can only speak what the Lord tells me to say. As surely as the Lord lives, that is what I must do.’" 
1Kings22:15 When Micaiah arrived, the king asked him, ‘Micaiah, should we attack Ramoth Gilead or not?’ Micaiah answered, ‘Yes, attack it. You will surely win the fight. The Lord will give it to you, our king.’" 
1Kings22:16 Then King Ahab said to Micaiah, ‘I have already told you many times to tell me only what is true! You must promise to do this in the name of the Lord!’" 
1Kings22:17 Then Micaiah said, ‘I saw the whole army of Israel and they were walking about on the hills without any leader. They were like sheep with no shepherd as their guide. The Lord told me, “These people have no master. They should go home quietly and they should not fight.” ’" 
1Kings22:18 The king of Israel said to King Jehoshaphat, ‘I told you what he would say! He never says that anything good will happen to me. He only says that I will have trouble.’" 
1Kings22:19 Then Micaiah said, ‘So now listen to the Lord 's message! I saw the Lord as he was sitting on his throne. The great crowd of his angels in heaven were standing around him, on his right side and on his left side." 
1Kings22:20 The Lord asked, “Who will go and deceive King Ahab so that he attacks Ramoth Gilead and he dies there?” Many of the angels suggested different things." 
1Kings22:21 Then a spirit came and stood in front of the Lord. The spirit said, “I will deceive Ahab.” The Lord asked him, “How will you do it?”" 
1Kings22:22 The spirit said, “I will give a message to all Ahab's prophets. I will cause them to speak lies.” The Lord said, “Go and deceive King Ahab, as you have said. He will do what you say.”" 
1Kings22:23 So you see what has happened. The Lord has sent a spirit to all these prophets who serve you. This spirit has caused them to speak lies. The Lord has decided that terrible trouble will happen to you.’ 
1Kings22:24 Then Kenaanah's son Zedekiah went to Micaiah. He hit Micaiah on his face. He asked Micaiah, ‘Do you say that the Lord 's spirit has gone away from me and has spoken to you instead? How did he do that?’" 
1Kings22:25 Micaiah answered him, ‘One day, you will know which of us has spoken the truth. That will be the day that you go to hide in a room at the back of a house.’" 
1Kings22:26 Then the king of Israel said to his men, ‘Take hold of Micaiah. Take him back to Amon, the city officer, and to Joash, the king's son." 
1Kings22:27 Say to them, “The king commands you to put this man in prison. Feed him with only a little bread and water until I return safely from the battle.” ’" 
1Kings22:28 Micaiah said, ‘If you do return safely, it will show that I have not spoken the Lord 's message.’ Then he said to all the people who were there, ‘Remember what I have said to King Ahab!’" 
1Kings22:29 So King Ahab of Israel and King Jehoshaphat of Judah went to attack Ramoth Gilead. 
1Kings22:30 King Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, ‘When we go into the battle, I will wear ordinary clothes. People will not recognize me as the king. But you should wear your royal clothes.’ So the king of Israel went into the battle as if he was an ordinary soldier." 
1Kings22:31 The king of Syria had said to his 32 chariot officers, ‘Only fight the king of Israel. Do not fight against anyone else, whoever they are.’" 
1Kings22:32 The chariot officers saw King Jehoshaphat in his royal clothes. They thought, ‘Surely that man is the king of Israel.’ So they turned towards him to attack him. When King Jehoshaphat saw them, he shouted out." 
1Kings22:33 Then the chariot officers realized that he was not the king of Israel. So they did not chase him any more. 
1Kings22:34 Then a Syrian soldier shot an arrow into the air. He did not try to shoot at anyone, but the arrow hit the king of Israel. The arrow went through a space in the king's armour. The king commanded the man who drove his chariot, ‘Turn the chariot around. Take me away from the battle. An arrow has hit me.’" 
1Kings22:35 The soldiers fought the battle all day. While they were fighting, King Ahab sat in his chariot where he could see the Syrian soldiers. His blood poured out and it covered the floor of the chariot. When evening came, Ahab died." 
1Kings22:36 At sunset, the Israelite soldiers shouted to each other, ‘Leave the battle! Every man should return home to the city where he lives.’" 
1Kings22:37 So the king of Israel died. They took him to Samaria. They buried him there. 
1Kings22:38 They washed his blood from the chariot at the pool of water in Samaria. It was the place where the prostitutes washed themselves. The dogs drank Ahab's blood there. The Lord had said that this would happen. 
1Kings22:39 The other things that happened while Ahab was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about all the great things that he did. It also tells about the beautiful palace and the cities that he built. 
1Kings22:40 Ahab died and they buried him beside his ancestors. His son Ahaziah became king after him. 
1Kings22:41 In the fourth year that Ahab ruled Israel as king, Asa's son Jehoshaphat became the king of Judah." 
1Kings22:42 Jehoshaphat was 35 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 25 years. His mother's name was Azubah. She was the daughter of Shilhi. 
1Kings22:43 Jehoshaphat lived in the good way that his father Asa had lived. He only did things that the Lord says are right. But he did not remove all the altars that were on the hills. People continued to offer sacrifices on those altars and they continued to burn incense there. 
1Kings22:44 Jehoshaphat agreed not to fight against the king of Israel. 
1Kings22:45 The other things that happened while Jehoshaphat was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about the great things that he did and the battles that he fought. 
1Kings22:46 He also removed the male prostitutes who lived near the special altars. His father Asa had removed many of them when he ruled as king. Jehoshaphat removed those who were still there. 
1Kings22:47 At this time there was no king who ruled Edom. Their ruler was an officer that King Jehoshaphat had chosen. 
1Kings22:48 Jehoshaphat built some big ships to bring back gold from Ophir. But they never left Ezion-Geber because a storm destroyed them. So they never travelled anywhere. 
1Kings22:49 At that time, Ahab's son Ahaziah said to Jehoshaphat, ‘Let my sailors join with your sailors on the ships.’ But Jehoshaphat refused." 
1Kings22:50 Jehoshaphat died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David, his ancestor. Jehoshaphat's son Jehoram became king after him." 
1Kings22:51 When Jehoshaphat had ruled Judah for 17 years, Ahab's son Ahaziah became the king of Israel in Samaria. Ahaziah ruled Israel as king for two years." 
1Kings22:52 He did things that the Lord said were evil. He lived in the way that his father and mother had lived. He caused the Israelites to do bad things, as Nebat's son Jeroboam had done." 
1Kings22:53 Ahaziah served Baal as his god and he worshipped him. He made the Lord, Israel's God, very angry, as his father had also done." 
2Kings1:1 After King Ahab's death, the country of Moab turned against Israel." 
2Kings1:2 At this time, Ahaziah was king of Israel. He lived in the city of Samaria. One day he fell from the window of an upstairs room in his palace. He became very ill. So he sent men to the temple of Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron. He told them, ‘Ask their god if I will become well again.’" 
2Kings1:3 Then the angel of the spoke to Elijah, God's prophet who came from Tishbe. The angel said, ‘Go and meet the men that the king of Samaria has sent. Say to them, “Do you think that there is no God in Israel? Is that why you are going to Ekron's god, Baal-Zebub, to ask if the king will be well again?”" 
2Kings1:4 Because you are doing this, the Lord says to you, Ahaziah, “You will never leave the bed that you are lying on. You will certainly die.” ’" 
2Kings1:5 Elijah went to tell the men the Lord 's message. So the men returned to the king. He asked them, ‘Why have you returned already?’" 
2Kings1:6 They replied, ‘A man came to meet us. He told us to go back to the king who had sent us. He says to you, “This is what the Lord says: Why have you sent men to speak to Ekron's god, Baal-Zebub? You seem to think that there is no God in Israel. Because of that, you will not leave the bed that you are lying on. You will certainly die.” ’" 
2Kings1:7 The king asked them, ‘Describe the man who came to meet you. What did he look like?’" 
2Kings1:8 They replied, ‘He was wearing rough clothes. He had tied a leather belt around him.’ The king said, ‘That is Elijah, the prophet from Tishbe.’" 
2Kings1:9 Then the king sent 50 soldiers with their captain to take hold of Elijah. Elijah was sitting on the top of a hill. The captain went up and he said to Elijah, ‘ Man of God, the king says, “Come down with us.” ’" 
2Kings1:10 Elijah replied to the captain, ‘If I am really a man of God, fire will come down from the sky. It will destroy you and your 50 soldiers.’ Then fire did come down from the sky. It destroyed the captain and his 50 soldiers." 
2Kings1:11 Then the king sent another captain with 50 more soldiers to get Elijah. The captain went up and he said to Elijah, ‘Man of God, the king says, “Come down immediately!” ’" 
2Kings1:12 Elijah answered, ‘If I am really a man of God, fire will come down from the sky. It will destroy you and your 50 soldiers.’ Then fire from God did come down from the sky. It destroyed the captain and his 50 soldiers." 
2Kings1:13 So the king sent a third captain, with 50 more soldiers. This captain went up to Elijah. He bent down on his knees in front of Elijah to ask him to be kind. He said, ‘Man of God, we are your servants. Please do not kill me and my 50 soldiers." 
2Kings1:14 We know that fire came down from the sky. It destroyed the two captains who came before me and all their soldiers. But now, please be kind and do not kill me.’" 
2Kings1:15 The angel of the Lord said to Elijah, ‘Go down with him. Do not be afraid of him.’ So Elijah went down with the captain to meet the king." 
2Kings1:16 Elijah said to the king, ‘This is what the Lord says: You sent men to speak to Ekron's god, Baal-Zebub, to find out what would happen to you. Did you think that there is no God in Israel? You did not ask him what would happen. Because of that, you will not leave the bed that you are lying on. You will certainly die.’" 
2Kings1:17 So Ahaziah died. The Lord had told Elijah that this would happen. Ahaziah had no son, so his brother, Joram, became king after him. This happened in the second year that Jehoshaphat's son, Jehoram, ruled Judah as king." 
2Kings1:18 The other things that happened while Ahaziah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about the things that King Ahaziah did. 
2Kings2:1 The Lord was now ready to take Elijah up to heaven in a storm of wind. At this time, Elijah and Elisha were travelling from Gilgal." 
2Kings2:2 Elijah said to Elisha, ‘Stay here, because the Lord has sent me to Bethel.’ But Elisha replied, ‘I will not leave you. I promise that, as surely as the Lord lives and as surely as you also live.’ So they went down to Bethel together." 
2Kings2:3 A group of prophets lived in Bethel. They came out to Elisha and they asked him, ‘Do you know that the Lord will take your master away from you today?’ Elisha replied, ‘Yes, I do know that, but do not talk about it now.’" 
2Kings2:4 Then Elijah said to Elisha, ‘Stay here, because the Lord has sent me to Jericho.’ But Elisha replied, ‘I will not leave you. I promise that, as surely as the Lord lives and as surely as you live.’ So they went to Jericho together." 
2Kings2:5 A group of prophets lived in Jericho. They went out to Elisha and they asked him, ‘Do you know that the Lord will take your master away from you today?’ Elisha replied, ‘Yes, I do know that, but do not talk about it now.’" 
2Kings2:6 Then Elijah said to Elisha, ‘Stay here, because the Lord has sent me to the Jordan River.’ But Elisha replied, ‘I will not leave you. I promise that, as surely as the Lord lives and as surely as you live.’ So they continued to travel together." 
2Kings2:7 50 men who belonged to the group of prophets went and they stood near the Jordan River. They were standing not far away from Elijah and Elisha. They watched what happened. 
2Kings2:8 Elijah took off his coat. He rolled it up and he hit the water with it. The water became separate to the left side and to the right side. Elijah and Elisha went across the river on dry ground. 
2Kings2:9 After they had gone across the river, Elijah said to Elisha, ‘The Lord will soon take me away from you. What do you want me to do for you before that happens?’ Elisha replied, ‘Please let me have twice as much of your spirit.’" 
2Kings2:10 Elijah said, ‘You have asked a difficult thing. But watch carefully when God takes me from you. If you see it happen, you will receive that spirit. If you do not see me, you will not receive it.’" 
2Kings2:11 So they walked along and they talked together. Suddenly a chariot that was burning with fire appeared. The horses that pulled it were also burning with fire. The chariot went between Elijah and Elisha. Elijah went up to heaven in a storm of wind. 
2Kings2:12 When Elisha saw this, he shouted, ‘My father! My father! You are riding in Israel's chariot! Israel's men are riding on the horses!’ After that, Elisha could not see Elijah again. He took hold of his own clothes and he tore them into pieces because he was very upset." 
2Kings2:13 He picked up Elijah's coat that had fallen off. He went and he stood on the shore of the Jordan River. 
2Kings2:14 He took Elijah's coat and he hit the water with it. He said, ‘Now is the Lord, Elijah's God, with me?’ When he hit the water with Elijah's coat, the water became separate, to the left side and to the right side. Elisha went across the river." 
2Kings2:15 The group of prophets from Jericho were standing not far away. They saw what happened. They said, ‘The spirit that gave power to Elijah is now with Elisha.’ They went to meet Elisha. They bent down low to the ground to respect him." 
2Kings2:16 They said to him, ‘Please, sir! We are your servants. We have 50 strong men with us. Let them go and look for your master. Perhaps the Spirit of the Lord has carried him away. Maybe it has dropped him somewhere on a mountain or in a valley.’ But Elisha replied, ‘No. Do not send them to look for him.’" 
2Kings2:17 But the prophets asked him many times to do this. Elisha was too ashamed to refuse. So he said, ‘Send them to look.’ They sent 50 men who looked for Elijah for three days. But they did not find him." 
2Kings2:18 When they returned, Elisha was waiting for them in Jericho. He said to them, ‘I told you not to go and look for Elijah.’" 
2Kings2:19 One day, the leaders in Jericho said to Elisha, ‘Please listen to us, sir. You can see that our city is in a good place. But the water here is bad. The land does not give us good crops.’" 
2Kings2:20 Elisha said, ‘Bring a new bowl to me with some salt in it.’ So they brought it to him." 
2Kings2:21 Then Elisha went out to the city's spring of water. He threw the salt into it. He said, ‘This is what the Lord says: “I have made this water clean again. It will no longer cause people to die. The land will no longer be useless for crops.” ’" 
2Kings2:22 Since that time, the water has always been pure. This is what Elisha had said would happen." 
2Kings2:23 Elisha went from Jericho to Bethel. While he travelled along the road, some boys came out of the town. They laughed at Elisha. They shouted at him, ‘ Bald man, move on! Go away, you bald man!’" 
2Kings2:24 Elisha turned around and he looked at them. He asked the Lord to punish them. Two bears came out from the forest. They tore 42 of the boys in pieces. 
2Kings2:25 Then Elisha travelled to Mount Carmel. From there, he returned to Samaria." 
2Kings3:1 Ahab's son Jehoram became the king of Israel in Samaria. This happened when Jehoshaphat had been the king of Judah for 18 years. Jehoram ruled Israel as king for 12 years. 
2Kings3:2 He did things that the Lord said were evil. But he was not as bad as his father and his mother had been. Jehoram did throw away the stone pillar where people worshipped Baal. His father Ahab had made that pillar. 
2Kings3:3 But Jehoram continued to do the same bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. Jeroboam had caused many people in Israel to do those sins, and Jehoram did not stop doing them himself." 
2Kings3:4 Mesha, the king of Moab, was a sheep farmer. Every year he had to pay the king of Israel 100,000 male lambs and the wool from 100,000 male sheep." 
2Kings3:5 But after King Ahab died, the king of Moab turned against the king of Israel." 
2Kings3:6 So King Jehoram left Samaria to bring all Israel's army together. They were ready to attack Moab. 
2Kings3:7 He also sent this message to Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah: ‘The king of Moab has turned against me. Will you go with me to fight against the Moabites?’ Jehoshaphat replied, ‘Yes, I will go with you. We will have one army. My soldiers will join with your soldiers. My horses will be under your authority.’" 
2Kings3:8 King Jehoram asked, ‘What road should we go on to attack Moab?’ King Jehoshaphat replied, ‘We should travel through the Edom desert.’" 
2Kings3:9 So the king of Israel, the king of Judah and the king of Edom joined together to attack Moab. They were travelling along the road for seven days. After that time, there was no more water for the army or for their animals." 
2Kings3:10 The king of Israel was very upset. He said, ‘What has happened? Perhaps the Lord has brought us three kings here to put us under the power of the king of Moab!’" 
2Kings3:11 But King Jehoshaphat asked, ‘There must surely be a prophet of the Lord here somewhere. We could ask him what the Lord wants us to do.’ An officer of the king of Israel answered him, ‘Yes, Shaphat's son Elisha is here. He was Elijah's servant.’" 
2Kings3:12 Jehoshaphat said, ‘He will tell us what the Lord is saying.’ So the king of Israel, King Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went to meet Elisha." 
2Kings3:13 Elisha said to the king of Israel, ‘We have nothing to say to each other! Instead, go to the prophets that your father and your mother liked to listen to.’ The king of Israel replied, ‘No! The Lord told us three kings to come here together. Now he is putting us under Moab's power.’" 
2Kings3:14 Elisha said to him, ‘I serve the Lord Almighty. I promise you, as surely as the Lord lives, I would never even look at you! But I do respect Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, who is with you. So I will help you." 
2Kings3:15 But now, bring someone to play music on a harp for me.’ While the man was making music, the Lord 's power came to Elisha." 
2Kings3:16 Elisha said, ‘This is what the Lord says: Dig many holes in this dry valley," 
2Kings3:17 because the Lord says this: You will not see any wind or any rain. But this valley will become full of water! You, your cows and your other animals will have water to drink." 
2Kings3:18 This is an easy thing for the Lord to do. He will also put the Moabites under your power. 
2Kings3:19 You will destroy all their strong cities and all their important towns. You will cut down every good tree. You will stop their springs giving any water. You will cover their fields with stones so that nothing grows there.’ 
2Kings3:20 The next morning, at the time when they offered the morning sacrifice, the water appeared! It came from the direction of Edom so that the land was full of water!" 
2Kings3:21 All the people in Moab had heard that the kings had come to attack them. So the leaders of Moab brought together every man who was old enough to fight. They put these men on Moab's border. 
2Kings3:22 When the Moabites woke up early the next morning, the sun was shining on the water. When they looked at the water from where they were, it looked like blood!" 
2Kings3:23 They said to each other, ‘That is blood! The armies of those kings have fought against each other. Now they are all dead! We must go and take all their valuable things!’" 
2Kings3:24 So the Moabites arrived at the camp of the Israelite army. Then Israel's soldiers attacked the Moabites. The Moabites ran away back to their own land. The Israelites chased them and they completely destroyed them. 
2Kings3:25 They destroyed the Moabites' towns. Each Israelite soldier threw a stone onto all the good fields, until they covered them with stones. They filled the springs so that they gave no water. They cut down all the good trees. Only the city of Kir-Hareseth was still there with its stone walls. But the Israelite soldiers stood all around the city. They attacked it with stones from their slings." 
2Kings3:26 The king of Moab realized that he was not winning the battle. So he took 700 of his soldiers who had swords. They tried to attack their enemies and reach the king of Edom. But they failed to do that. 
2Kings3:27 So the king of Moab took his oldest son who would have become king after him. He killed him on the wall of the city as a burnt offering to their god. This made the Israelite soldiers become very upset. So they went away from the city and they returned to their own land. 
2Kings4:1 There was a woman whose husband belonged to the group of prophets. When her husband died, she called out to Elisha for help. She said, ‘Your servant, my husband, is dead. He served the Lord faithfully. My husband was in debt to a certain man. Now that man wants to take my two children to be his slaves.’" 
2Kings4:2 Elisha said to her, ‘How can I help you? Tell me, what things do you have in your house?’ She said to Elisha, ‘Please sir, I have nothing in the house. All I have is a small jar of olive oil.’" 
2Kings4:3 Then Elisha said to her, ‘Go to all your neighbours. Ask them to lend you empty jars. Make sure that you get a lot of them." 
2Kings4:4 Then take the jars into your house. Go in with your sons and shut the door behind you. Pour the olive oil from your jar into all the other jars. When each jar is full, put it in a safe place.’" 
2Kings4:5 The widow left Elisha. She went into her house with her sons and she shut the door behind her. They brought the jars to her and she poured the oil into them. 
2Kings4:6 When all the jars were full, she said to one of her sons, ‘Bring me another jar.’ But he said, ‘There are no more jars.’ Then there was no more olive oil to pour from her jar." 
2Kings4:7 Then the widow went back to Elisha, the man of God. She told him what had happened. He said, ‘Go and sell the oil. Use some of the money to pay the debt to the man. Use the money that remains to buy food for you and your sons. Then you will live.’" 
2Kings4:8 One day, Elisha went to Shunem. A rich woman lived there. She asked Elisha to eat a meal with her family. So every time that he travelled near her house, he stopped there to eat a meal." 
2Kings4:9 Then the woman said to her husband, ‘Listen! I believe that this man who often eats with us is a holy man who serves God." 
2Kings4:10 We should make a small room on the roof of our house for him. We can put a bed, a table, a chair and a lamp in the room. Then, when he comes to visit us, he can stay there.’" 
2Kings4:11 One day, Elisha came to Shunem again. He went up to the room on the roof. He lay down to rest there." 
2Kings4:12 He told Gehazi, his servant, ‘Ask the woman to come here.’ So Gehazi did that. The woman came and she stood in front of Elisha." 
2Kings4:13 Elisha said to Gehazi, ‘Say to her, “You have done a lot to take care of us. So what can we do for you? Can we speak on your behalf to the king, or to the officer who leads the army?” ’ The woman replied, ‘I live here safely among my own people.’" 
2Kings4:14 But Elisha asked Gehazi again, ‘What can we do to help her?’ Gehazi said, ‘She has no son. But her husband is an old man.’" 
2Kings4:15 Elisha said, ‘Ask her to come here.’ When Gehazi did that, she came and she stood near the door." 
2Kings4:16 Elisha said to her, ‘About this time next year, you will hold a son in your arms.’ The woman said, ‘No, my master! You are a man of God. Please do not tell me lies.’" 
2Kings4:17 But the woman did become pregnant. At that time next year she gave birth to a son. Elisha had said that this would happen. 
2Kings4:18 One day, when the child was older, he went out to see his father. His father was working in a field with his men at harvest time." 
2Kings4:19 He said to his father, ‘My head is hurting! Yes, it hurts!’ His father said to a servant, ‘Carry the boy to his mother.’" 
2Kings4:20 So the servant lifted him up and he carried him to his mother. The boy sat on his mother's knees until midday. Then he died. 
2Kings4:21 She took the boy upstairs and she put him on the bed of the man of God. Then she went out of the room and she shut the door. 
2Kings4:22 She sent a message to her husband. She said, ‘Send to me one of the servants with one of the donkeys. I must go quickly to see the man of God and then I will return.’" 
2Kings4:23 Her husband asked, ‘Why do you want to go and see him today? It is not a special day with a new moon. It is not a Sabbath day.’ She said, ‘All is well.’" 
2Kings4:24 Then she prepared the donkey. She said to her servant, ‘You go ahead and lead! Go as fast as you can unless I say, “Go more slowly.” ’" 
2Kings4:25 So the woman went to see Elisha, the man of God, at Mount Carmel. Elisha saw her when she was a long way away. He said to his servant Gehazi, ‘Look! There is the woman from Shunem!" 
2Kings4:26 Run to meet her. Ask her, “Are you well? Is your husband well? Is your son well?” ’ The woman replied, ‘All is well.’" 
2Kings4:27 But when she reached the man of God at Mount Carmel, she took hold of his feet. Gehazi came to push her away. But the man of God said, ‘Leave her alone. She is very upset. But the Lord has hidden the reason from me. He did not tell me about her problem.’" 
2Kings4:28 The woman said, ‘My master, I did not ask you for a son, did I? I told you not to tell me lies. ’" 
2Kings4:29 Elisha said to Gehazi, ‘Tie your belt around you. Prepare to travel! Take my stick with you and run there quickly. If you meet anyone, do not stop to speak. If anyone speaks to you, do not stop to answer them. When you get there, put my stick on the boy's face.’" 
2Kings4:30 But the child's mother said, ‘I promise you, as surely as the Lord lives and you live, I will not leave you.’ So Elisha got up and he went back to Shunem with her." 
2Kings4:31 Gehazi ran ahead and he arrived before they did. He put Elisha's stick on the boy's face. But the boy did not move or make any sound. So Gehazi went back to meet Elisha. He said to him, ‘The boy did not wake up.’" 
2Kings4:32 When Elisha arrived at the house, the boy was lying on the bed. He saw that the boy was dead." 
2Kings4:33 Elisha went into the room by himself. He shut the door. Elisha prayed to the Lord. 
2Kings4:34 Then he got onto the bed and he lay across the boy. He put his mouth on the boy's mouth. He put his eyes over the boy's eyes. He put his hands on the boy's hands. When he lay across the boy's body, it became warm." 
2Kings4:35 Elisha went away from the bed. He walked round the room a few times. Then he got onto the bed again. He lay down across the boy. The boy sneezed seven times and then he opened his eyes. 
2Kings4:36 Then Elisha called Gehazi to come to him. He said, ‘Tell the boy's mother to come here.’ Gehazi did that. When the woman came, Elisha said to her, ‘Take your son.’" 
2Kings4:37 She came in to the room. She bent down low near Elisha's feet with her face towards the ground. Then she took her son and she left the room. 
2Kings4:38 After that, Elisha went back to Gilgal. There was a famine in that region. The group of prophets came to meet with Elisha. He said to his servant, ‘Put the large pot over the fire. Cook some soup for the prophets.’" 
2Kings4:39 One of the prophets went out into the fields to get some herbs to put in the soup. He found a wild plant and he picked some of its fruits. He filled the pockets of his coat with them. He brought the fruits back with him and he cut them into pieces. He put the pieces into the pot of soup. But he did not know what they were. 
2Kings4:40 They poured out the soup for the men to eat. But when they started to eat it, they shouted, ‘Man of God, this soup will kill us!’ They could not eat it." 
2Kings4:41 Then Elisha said, ‘Bring some flour.’ He put the flour into the pot. He said, ‘Now pour out some more soup for the people to eat.’ Then there was nothing in the soup that would hurt them." 
2Kings4:42 One day, a man came from Baal Shalisha. He brought 20 bread loaves for the man of God. The flour for the bread was made from the first barley that he had picked at harvest time. He also brought some fresh grain. Elisha said, ‘Give this food to the people to eat.’" 
2Kings4:43 But his servant said, ‘There is not enough food here to feed 100 men!’ Elisha said, ‘Give it to the people for them to eat. Do it, because the Lord says, “They will all eat as much as they want. There will even be some food left.” ’" 
2Kings4:44 So the servant gave the bread to the prophets to eat. They ate as much as they wanted and some food still remained. The Lord had said that this would happen. 
2Kings5:1 Naaman was the leader of the king of Syria's army. Naaman's master respected him as a great man. The Lord had used Naaman to help Syria win wars against their enemies. Naaman was a brave soldier, but he had a bad disease of his skin." 
2Kings5:2 Groups of soldiers from Syria had gone to attack places in Israel. They had caught a young girl as their prisoner. She became a servant of Naaman's wife. 
2Kings5:3 One day, the girl said to her master's wife, ‘I would like my master Naaman to meet the prophet who is in Samaria. The prophet would take away his disease.’" 
2Kings5:4 So Naaman went to his master, the king of Syria. He told the king what the girl from Israel had said." 
2Kings5:5 The king of Syria replied, ‘Go to meet this prophet! I will send a letter to the king of Israel.’ So Naaman went to Israel. He took with him 30,000 pieces of silver, 6,000 pieces of gold, and 10 sets of clothes." 
2Kings5:6 He also took the letter for the king of Israel. The message from the king of Syria said, ‘I am sending my servant Naaman to you, with this letter. I want you to take away the disease of his skin.’" 
2Kings5:7 When the king of Israel read the letter, he was very upset. He tore his clothes. He said, ‘I am not God, am I? I cannot kill people or make them alive again. Why does he think that I can make this man well again? I see that he is trying to start a fight with me.’" 
2Kings5:8 Elisha, the man of God, heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes. So he sent this message to him: ‘You did not have to tear your clothes. Tell the man from Syria to come to me. Then he will know that there is a true prophet in Israel.’" 
2Kings5:9 So Naaman went to see Elisha. He took with him his horses and his chariots. He stood outside the door of Elisha's house. 
2Kings5:10 Elisha sent his servant with a message to Naaman. He said, ‘Go to the Jordan River. Wash yourself seven times in the river. Then your skin will be clean again. You will not have the disease.’" 
2Kings5:11 But Naaman was angry and he went away. He said, ‘I thought that the prophet would come out of his house to see me. Then he would stand here with me. He would pray in the name of the Lord his God. Then he would move his hand over the bad place in my skin. After that my skin would be clean again. That is what I thought he would do." 
2Kings5:12 The Abana and Pharpar rivers in Damascus are better than any of the rivers in Israel. Surely, I could wash in those rivers and become clean!’ So Naaman turned around and he went away. He was very angry." 
2Kings5:13 But Naaman's servants went to him. One of them said, ‘My master, the prophet might have asked you to do something very difficult. Then you surely would have done it! Now he says to you, “Wash yourself! Then you will be clean.” That is much easier for you to do.’" 
2Kings5:14 So Naaman went down to the Jordan River. He washed himself in it seven times, as the man of God had told him to do. Naaman's skin became well again. It became as clean as a young child's skin." 
2Kings5:15 Then Naaman and all his servants went back to see Elisha, the man of God. Naaman stood in front of him and he said, ‘Now I know that there is no God in the whole world except the one in Israel. Please accept a gift from me, your servant.’" 
2Kings5:16 But Elisha replied, ‘I serve the Lord. I promise you, as surely as he lives, I will not accept a gift from you.’ Naaman asked him many times to accept a gift but Elisha refused." 
2Kings5:17 So Naaman said, ‘So, you will not accept my gift. But please agree to let me take home some soil from here. I will take as much soil as two mules can carry. Then I will never again make any sacrifices or burnt offerings to any other god. I will only worship the Lord." 
2Kings5:18 But I pray that the Lord will forgive me, your servant, when I do this one thing: My master, the king of Syria, often goes into the temple of our god, Rimmon. When he bends down low to worship Rimmon, he takes hold of my arm. So I also have to bend down low with him. I ask the Lord to forgive me when I do that.’" 
2Kings5:19 Elisha said to Naaman, ‘Go home with peace in your mind.’ Then Naaman started on his way home." 
2Kings5:20 Elisha's servant, Gehazi, thought, ‘My master did not accept the gifts that Naaman offered to him. He made it too easy for that Syrian man. As surely as the Lord lives, I will run after him. I will accept a gift from him.’" 
2Kings5:21 So Gehazi ran quickly after Naaman before he had gone very far. Naaman saw that a man was running after him. So he got down from his chariot to meet him. Naaman asked Gehazi, ‘Is everything well?’" 
2Kings5:22 Gehazi answered, ‘Everything is well. My master sent me with this message: “Two young men from the group of prophets have just arrived at my house. They have come from the hill country of Ephraim. Please give them 3,000 pieces of silver and two sets of clothes.” ’" 
2Kings5:23 Naaman said, ‘Yes, I will. But please agree to take 6,000 pieces of silver.’ He asked Gehazi to accept them. He put the 6,000 pieces of silver into two bags, as well as two sets of clothes. He gave them to two of his servants and they carried them in front of Gehazi." 
2Kings5:24 When Gehazi reached a hill near Elisha's house, he took the things from the servants. He put them in his own room. He told the servants to go back to Naaman." 
2Kings5:25 Gehazi went in and he stood in front of his master. Elisha asked Gehazi, ‘Where have you been?’ Gehazi answered, ‘I have not been anywhere, sir.’" 
2Kings5:26 But Elisha said to him, ‘My spirit was with you when you went out. It was there when the man came down from his chariot to meet you. This is not the proper time to accept gifts of money, clothes, olive trees, vineyards, sheep, cows or servants." 
2Kings5:27 Now you will have the same disease in your skin that Naaman had! It will always be with you and your descendants.’ Then Gehazi went away from Elisha. His skin had already become white like snow because of the disease. 
2Kings6:1 One day, the group of prophets said to Elisha, ‘The place where we meet with you is too small for us." 
2Kings6:2 We must go to the Jordan River to cut down some trees. Each one of us can bring back some wood to build a new place for us to meet in.’ Elisha agreed and he told them to go. 
2Kings6:3 One of the prophets said, ‘Please come with us, sir.’ Elisha replied, ‘I will come with you.’" 
2Kings6:4 So he went with them. They arrived at the Jordan River. They started to cut down some trees. 
2Kings6:5 While one of them was cutting down a tree, his iron axe fell into the water. He shouted, ‘Oh! My master! The axe did not belong to me!’" 
2Kings6:6 Elisha asked him, ‘Where did it fall in the water?’ He showed Elisha the place. Then Elisha cut a branch from a tree. He threw it in the water at that place. It caused the iron axe to come to the top of the water." 
2Kings6:7 Elisha told the prophet, ‘Lift it out of the water.’ So the man took hold of it with his hand." 
2Kings6:8 There was a war between the king of Syria and Israel. The king of Syria talked with his officers. He said to them, ‘I will attack Israel at a certain place.’" 
2Kings6:9 But Elisha, the man of God, sent a message to the king of Israel. He said, ‘Do not travel through that place. The Syrian army is going there to attack us.’" 
2Kings6:10 So the king of Israel warned the people in that place to be careful. Several times Elisha told the king where the Syrian army would attack so that the king would be careful. 
2Kings6:11 This made the king of Syria very angry. He asked his officers to come to him. He said to them, ‘One of you is helping the king of Israel. Who is it?’" 
2Kings6:12 One of his officers said, ‘None of us is helping him, my master the king. There is a prophet who lives in Israel. His name is Elisha. He tells the king of Israel every word that you speak secretly, even what you say in your bedroom!’" 
2Kings6:13 The king of Syria said, ‘Go and find the place where he is. Then I will send some men there to catch him.’ A report came back to the king of Syria, ‘Elisha is in Dothan.’" 
2Kings6:14 So the king sent a big army of soldiers there, with horses and chariots. They arrived during the night and they made their camp all around the city." 
2Kings6:15 The servant of Elisha, the man of God, got up early the next morning. He went out and he saw an army with horses and chariots all around the city. He said to Elisha, ‘Oh! My master! What can we do?’" 
2Kings6:16 Elisha replied, ‘Do not be afraid. There are more men to fight for us than there are for them.’" 
2Kings6:17 Then Elisha prayed, ‘ Lord, please open my servant's eyes so that he can see clearly.’ The Lord opened the servant's eyes. Now he could see lots of horses and chariots that burned with fire. They were on the hill all around Elisha." 
2Kings6:18 When the enemy soldiers came towards Elisha, he prayed, ‘ Lord, please make these people become blind.’ The Lord did what Elisha had asked. He made the enemy soldiers become blind." 
2Kings6:19 Elisha said to them, ‘You are on the wrong road. You have come to the wrong city. Follow me! I will lead you to the man that you are looking for.’ Elisha led them to Samaria." 
2Kings6:20 After they had gone into the city of Samaria, Elisha prayed again, ‘ Lord, please open the eyes of these men so that they can see again.’ The Lord opened their eyes. Now they could see that they were in the middle of Samaria!" 
2Kings6:21 When the king of Israel saw the Syrian army in his city, he asked Elisha, ‘My master, what should I do? Should I kill them?’" 
2Kings6:22 Elisha answered, ‘You must not kill them. That would not be right. You did not win a fight against them with your weapons. Give them some food and water. Then they can eat and drink before they go back to their master.’" 
2Kings6:23 So the king of Israel made a big feast for them. They had a lot of food and drink. Then he sent them back to their master, the king of Syria. After this happened, no more groups of Syrian soldiers came to attack Israel." 
2Kings6:24 But later, King Ben-Hadad of Syria sent his whole army to attack Samaria. His soldiers made their camp all around the city." 
2Kings6:25 As a result, there was a famine in the city. The Syrian army were all around the city for a long time. Food in the city was very expensive. A donkey's head cost 80 pieces of silver. A small cup of dove's dung cost five pieces of silver." 
2Kings6:26 While the king of Israel was walking on the wall of the city, a woman shouted to him, ‘Please help me, my master the king!’" 
2Kings6:27 The king replied, ‘Why do you ask me? Only the Lord can help you. I have no wheat or wine to give you.’" 
2Kings6:28 Then the king asked her, ‘What is your problem?’ She answered, ‘This woman here said to me, “Let us take your son today, so that we can eat him. Tomorrow we will eat my son.”" 
2Kings6:29 So we cooked my son and we ate him. The next day I said to her, “Now we will take your son, so that we can eat him.” But she has hidden him somewhere!’" 
2Kings6:30 When the king heard the woman's words, he was very upset. He tore his clothes. As he walked along the wall, people could see what he was wearing. They saw that he was wearing sackcloth under his other clothes." 
2Kings6:31 He said, ‘I will certainly cut off Elisha's head today! May God punish me with death if Elisha still has his head by the end of the day!’" 
2Kings6:32 Elisha was sitting in his house. The leaders of the city were with him. The king sent a man to Elisha with a message. But before he arrived, Elisha said to the leaders, ‘I tell you this. That murderer, the king, has sent someone to cut off my head. When the king's man arrives, shut the door. Stop him from coming in here. We will soon hear the sound of his master as he arrives too.’" 
2Kings6:33 While Elisha was still talking to the city's leaders, the king's man arrived with this message: ‘The Lord has caused this terrible trouble to happen to us. I cannot wait any longer for the Lord to help us.’" 
2Kings7:1 Elisha said, ‘Now listen to the Lord 's message! This is what the Lord says: “About this time tomorrow, five kilograms of good flour will cost only one piece of silver. Ten kilograms of barley will also cost one piece of silver. You will be able to buy this food at the gate of Samaria.” ’" 
2Kings7:2 The special officer who was near to the king said to the man of God, ‘That will never happen! Even if the Lord opens the skies and sends us rain, it could not happen so soon.’ Elisha said, ‘You yourself will see this happen, but you will not eat any of the food!’" 
2Kings7:3 At this time, there were four men who had leprosy. They were at Samaria's gate where people went in to the city. They said to each other, ‘We should not stay here. If we wait here we will die." 
2Kings7:4 There is no food in the city. If we go in there we will die. And if we stay here, we will die. So we will go out to the camp of the Syrian army. We will ask them to be kind to us. They may let us stay alive, or they may kill us. But we would have died anyway.’" 
2Kings7:5 At evening time, the men went towards the Syrian army's camp. When they reached the edge of the camp, they saw that there was nobody there!" 
2Kings7:6 The Lord God had caused the Syrian soldiers to hear the sound of horses, chariots and a very big army. So they said among themselves, ‘Listen! The king of Israel has paid the king of the Hittites and the king of Egypt to come here and attack us!’" 
2Kings7:7 So, that evening, the Syrian soldiers all ran away. They left their tents, their horses and their donkeys. They did not take anything with them. They ran away to save their lives." 
2Kings7:8 When the four men reached the edge of the camp, they went into one of the tents. They ate and they drank what was there. They carried away silver and gold and clothes. They went away and they hid those things. Then they came back and they went into another tent. They took the valuable things from there too and they hid them." 
2Kings7:9 Then they said to each other, ‘We should not be doing this. It is not right! This is a day of good news and we have not told anyone. If we wait until the morning, we will be in trouble. We must go now and tell the king's officers what has happened.’" 
2Kings7:10 So they went back to the city's gate and they called out to the guards. They said to them, ‘We went out to the camp of the Syrian army. There was nobody there! We did not hear anyone at all. The horses and donkeys are still there, where the soldiers had tied them. The tents are still there, as they were before.’" 
2Kings7:11 The guards at the city gate then shouted the news. People in the king's palace heard the news. 
2Kings7:12 The king got up in the middle of the night. He said to his officers, ‘I will tell you what the Syrian soldiers have done to deceive us. They know that we have no food. So they have left their tents and they have hidden in the fields. They are thinking, “The Israelites will surely come out of the city. Then we will catch them while they are still alive. We will then get into their city.” ’" 
2Kings7:13 One of the king's officers answered him, ‘Send some men with five of the horses that are still in our city. We will see what happens to them. All of us Israelites in the city will soon die. If the Syrian soldiers kill those men, they would have died anyway. So send them out of the city to find out what is happening.’" 
2Kings7:14 So they prepared two chariots with their horses. The king sent the men to see what had happened to the Syrian army. He commanded the men, ‘Go and look for them.’" 
2Kings7:15 The king's men followed the Syrian soldiers as far as the Jordan River. They saw many things that the soldiers had dropped along the road. They had dropped clothes and weapons because they were in a hurry to run away. So the men returned to the king. They told him what they had seen. 
2Kings7:16 Then the people in Samaria went out of the city. They took all the valuable things from the Syrian soldiers' tents. So then people could buy five kilograms of good flour for one piece of silver. They could also buy ten kilograms of barley for one piece of silver. That is what the Lord had said would happen. 
2Kings7:17 The king had told his special officer to stand at the gate of the city. When the people ran out of the city, they knocked him down. He fell under their feet and he died. The man of God had already said that this would happen, when the king had come to his house." 
2Kings7:18 Elisha had said to the king, ‘This time tomorrow, five kilograms of good flour will cost only one piece of silver. Ten kilograms of barley will also cost one piece of silver. You will be able to buy this food at the gate of Samaria.’" 
2Kings7:19 But the officer had replied to the man of God, ‘That will never happen! Even if the Lord opens the skies and sends us rain, it could not happen so soon.’ Elisha had said, ‘You yourself will see this happen, but you will not eat any of the food!’" 
2Kings7:20 And that is what really happened to him! At the city gate, the people ran over the king's officer and he died." 
2Kings8:1 Elisha had said to the woman whose son he had made alive again, ‘Go away from here. The Lord says that there will be a famine in this country for seven years. So you and your family should go to live somewhere else during that time.’" 
2Kings8:2 The woman had done what the man of God had told her to do. She and her family went to live in the country of the Philistines for seven years. 
2Kings8:3 After seven years, she came back from there. She went to the king to ask for her house and her land." 
2Kings8:4 The king was talking to Gehazi, the servant of the man of God. The king said to Gehazi, ‘Tell me about all the great things that Elisha has done.’" 
2Kings8:5 So Gehazi was telling the king that Elisha had made dead people alive again. While Gehazi was saying this, the woman from Shunem came in to ask the king for her house and her fields. It was her son that Elisha had made alive again. Gehazi said, ‘My master the king, this is the woman! And this is her son that Elisha made alive again!’" 
2Kings8:6 The king asked the woman about it. She told him what had happened. Then the king commanded one of his officers to take care of her. The king said to him, ‘This woman must receive back everything that belongs to her. She must also receive the value of all the crops that have grown in her fields since the day that she went away.’" 
2Kings8:7 Ben-Hadad, the king of Syria, was ill in Damascus. Elisha went to Damascus at that time. Somebody told the king, ‘The man of God has come to the city.’" 
2Kings8:8 The king said to Hazael, ‘Take a gift with you to go and meet the man of God. Ask him to get a message from the Lord. Ask him, “Will I get well again after this disease?” ’" 
2Kings8:9 So Hazael went to meet Elisha. He took a gift with him. There were 40 camels that carried many kinds of valuable things that came from Damascus. He arrived at Elisha's house and he stood in front of him. Hazael said, ‘Your servant, Ben-Hadad, king of Syria, has sent me to you. He asks, “Will I get well again after this disease?” ’" 
2Kings8:10 Elisha answered, ‘Go back to the king. Tell him, “Certainly, you will get well again.” But the Lord has shown me that the king will surely die.’" 
2Kings8:11 Then Elisha looked at him with open eyes until Hazael became ashamed. Then the man of God began to weep. 
2Kings8:12 So Hazael asked him, ‘Why are you weeping, my master?’ Elisha replied, ‘Because I know that you will cause great trouble for Israel's people. You will destroy their strong cities with fire. You will fight their young men and you will kill them. You will knock down their children to kill them. You will cut open their pregnant women.’" 
2Kings8:13 Hazael said, ‘I am only an ordinary man, sir. I am not more important than a dog! How could I ever do great things like that?’ Elisha answered, ‘The Lord has shown me that you will become the king of Syria.’" 
2Kings8:14 Then Hazael left Elisha. He returned to his master, the king. King Ben-Hadad asked him, ‘What did Elisha say to you?’ Hazael replied, ‘He told me that you will surely get well again.’" 
2Kings8:15 The next day, Hazael took a thick cloth. He used water to make it wet. Then he put it over the king's face so that he could not breathe. So King Ben-Hadad died. Hazael became king of Syria after him." 
2Kings8:16 When Ahab's son Joram had been king of Israel for five years, Jehoshaphat's son Jehoram started to rule Judah as king." 
2Kings8:17 He was 32 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. 
2Kings8:18 He lived in the same bad way that the kings of Israel did. He did what the family of Ahab had done. He married a daughter of King Ahab and he became as wicked as King Ahab's family was. He did things that the Lord said were evil. 
2Kings8:19 But the Lord did not want to destroy the nation of Judah, because of his promise to his servant, David. The Lord had promised that King David would always have descendants who would rule the nation." 
2Kings8:20 While Jehoram was king, Edom's people turned against Judah. They would no longer accept the king of Judah's authority over them. They decided to have their own king." 
2Kings8:21 So King Jehoram travelled to Zair with all his chariots. The Edomite army came and they were all around him. But that night, Jehoram and his officers attacked the Edomites and they escaped. The Israelite army ran away to go back home." 
2Kings8:22 Even today, Edom's people do not obey the rulers of Judah. The people of Libnah city also turned against Judah at the same time." 
2Kings8:23 The other things that happened while Jehoram was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about all the things that Jehoram did. 
2Kings8:24 Jehoram died and they buried him with his ancestors in the City of David. His son Ahaziah became king after him. 
2Kings8:25 When Ahab's son Joram had been king of Israel for 12 years, Jehoram's son Ahaziah started to rule Judah as king." 
2Kings8:26 Ahaziah was 22 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for one year. His mother's name was Athaliah. She was a granddaughter of Omri, king of Israel." 
2Kings8:27 Ahaziah lived in the same bad way that Ahab's family had done. He did things that the Lord said were evil, as Ahab's family had done. That was because he had married a woman from Ahab's family." 
2Kings8:28 King Ahaziah went with Ahab's son, King Joram of Israel, to fight against Hazael, the king of Syria. The two armies fought a battle at Ramoth Gilead. The Syrian army won the fight and they hurt King Joram." 
2Kings8:29 King Joram returned to Jezreel, so that his wounds could get better after the battle. While he was there, King Ahaziah went to visit him, because of his wounds." 
2Kings9:1 The prophet Elisha told a man from the group of prophets to come to him. Elisha said to him, ‘Tie your belt around you and prepare to travel. Take this bottle of olive oil with you and go to Ramoth Gilead." 
2Kings9:2 When you arrive there, look for Jehu. He is the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi. Go to him and take him into a room away from his friends." 
2Kings9:3 Pour the oil from the bottle onto his head. Say to him, “This is what the Lord says to you: I have now chosen you to be king of Israel.” Then open the door and run away quickly!’" 
2Kings9:4 The young prophet that Elisha had sent went to Ramoth Gilead. 
2Kings9:5 When he arrived there, he found the army officers. They were sitting together. The prophet said, ‘Captain, I have a message for you.’ Jehu asked him, ‘The message is for which of us?’ The prophet replied, ‘It is for you, sir.’" 
2Kings9:6 So Jehu stood up and he went into the house. The young prophet poured the oil onto Jehu's head. He said to him, ‘This is what the Lord, Israel's God, says to you: “I have now chosen you to be king of the Lord 's people, Israel." 
2Kings9:7 You will destroy the family of your master, Ahab. In this way I will punish Ahab's wife Jezebel, because she killed the prophets and other people who served me." 
2Kings9:8 The whole family of Ahab must die. I will kill every male among his descendants in Israel, whoever they are." 
2Kings9:9 I will destroy Ahab's family as I did to the family of Nebat's son Jeroboam and the family of Ahijah's son Baasha. 
2Kings9:10 Dogs will eat Jezebel's body on the ground in Jezreel. Nobody will bury her.” ’ Then the young prophet opened the door and he ran away. 
2Kings9:11 Jehu went out to the other army officers. They asked him, ‘Is everything well? Why did that crazy man come to you?’ Jehu replied, ‘It was not important. You know what that man is like and the kind of things he says.’" 
2Kings9:12 But the officers said, ‘That is not true! Tell us what he said.’ So Jehu told them what the prophet had said. He told them, ‘The prophet said, “This is what the Lord says: I have now chosen you to be the king of Israel.” ’" 
2Kings9:13 The other officers then quickly took their coats. They put them on the stone steps for Jehu to walk on. Then they made a loud noise with a trumpet. They shouted, ‘Jehu is king!’" 
2Kings9:14 So Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat and grandson of Nimshi, became an enemy of King Joram. Joram had been in Ramoth Gilead with the whole army of Israel. They were fighting against Hazael, the king of Syria, who wanted to attack Israel." 
2Kings9:15 The Syrian soldiers had hurt King Joram in the battle against King Hazael. So he returned to Jezreel to get well again. Jehu said to his men, ‘If you really want to help me, do not let anyone leave this city. Nobody must go to warn the people in Jezreel.’" 
2Kings9:16 Then Jehu got into his chariot and he rode to Jezreel, because King Joram was resting there. Ahaziah, the king of Judah, had also gone to Jezreel to visit King Joram." 
2Kings9:17 A guard was standing on the tower in Jezreel to watch for enemies. He saw Jehu's soldiers coming towards the city. He shouted, ‘I can see a group of soldiers who are coming here on horses.’ King Joram said, ‘Send out a man on a horse to meet the soldiers. Ask them. “Are you coming to us as friends?” ’" 
2Kings9:18 The man on the horse rode out of the city to meet Jehu. He said to Jehu, ‘The king asks you, “Are you coming here as friends?” ’ Jehu replied, ‘Whether we are friends or not, turn round and ride behind me!’ The guard on the tower reported to Joram, ‘The man that you sent with the message has reached them. But he is not coming back yet.’" 
2Kings9:19 So King Joram sent a second man out on a horse. The rider said to Jehu, ‘The king asks you, “Are you coming here as friends?” ’ Jehu replied, ‘Whether we are friends or not, turn round and ride behind me!’" 
2Kings9:20 The guard reported to Joram, ‘The man has reached them, but he is not coming back yet either. Their leader is driving his chariot like Nimshi's son, Jehu. He drives like a crazy man!’" 
2Kings9:21 Then King Joram commanded, ‘Prepare my chariot for me.’ So they brought his chariot to him. Then King Joram of Israel and King Ahaziah of Judah rode out of the city to meet Jehu. Each king was riding in his own chariot. They met Jehu at the piece of land that had once belonged to Naboth, the man from Jezreel." 
2Kings9:22 When Joram saw Jehu, he asked, ‘Have you come as a friend, Jehu?’ Jehu replied, ‘We cannot be friends. Your mother Jezebel still causes people to worship idols and to use magic.’" 
2Kings9:23 Joram turned his chariot round and he drove away quickly. He shouted to King Ahaziah, ‘Ahaziah, they have deceived us!’" 
2Kings9:24 Then Jehu used his bow to shoot an arrow at Joram. The arrow hit Joram between his shoulders and it went through his heart. He fell over in his chariot and he died. 
2Kings9:25 Jehu gave a command to his officer, Bidkar. He said to him, ‘Pick him up! Throw his body onto the field that once belonged to Naboth. Remember, you and I rode together in chariots behind Joram's father, Ahab. That was when the Lord said this about Ahab:" 
2Kings9:26 “Yesterday, I saw the blood of Naboth and his sons where you murdered them. One day, I will punish you as you deserve. I will do it here on this piece of land. That is what the Lord says.” So now pick up Joram's body and throw it on this piece of land. Do what the Lord has promised he would do.’" 
2Kings9:27 King Ahaziah of Judah saw what had happened to Joram. So he rode away quickly on the road towards Beth Haggan. Jehu chased after him and he shouted, ‘Kill him too!’ Jehu's men shot arrows at Ahaziah as he rode in his chariot up the hill to Gur, near Ibleam. He escaped to Megiddo and he died there." 
2Kings9:28 King Ahaziah's servants took his body back to Jerusalem in a chariot. They buried him there in a grave beside his ancestors in the City of David. 
2Kings9:29 Ahaziah had become king of Judah when Ahab's son Joram had been king of Israel for 11 years. 
2Kings9:30 After that, Jehu went to Jezreel. Jezebel heard what had happened. So she made her eyes and her hair look beautiful. Then she looked out of a window in the palace." 
2Kings9:31 When Jehu came through the gate of the city, Jezebel called out to him, ‘Have you come as a friend, Zimri? No, you have murdered your master!’" 
2Kings9:32 Jehu looked up at the window and he saw her. Then he shouted, ‘Who wants to help me? Anyone there?’ Two or three eunuchs looked out through a window at him." 
2Kings9:33 Jehu shouted to them, ‘Throw her down!’ So they threw her down. When she hit the ground, some of her blood splashed on the wall. It also splashed on Jehu's horses as he drove them over her body." 
2Kings9:34 Jehu went into the palace and he ate a meal. Then he said, ‘Take away that evil woman's body. She was the daughter of a king, so you should bury her properly.’" 
2Kings9:35 But when they went out to bury her, not much of her body was still there. They found only her skull, her feet and her hands." 
2Kings9:36 They went back and they told Jehu. He said, ‘The Lord told his servant, Elijah from Tishbe, that this would happen. He said, “Dogs will eat Jezebel's dead body on the ground in Jezreel." 
2Kings9:37 Her dead body will lie on the ground in Jezreel like dung. Nobody will be able to recognize who it is.” ’ 
2Kings10:1 Ahab had 70 sons who lived in Samaria. So Jehu wrote letters and he sent them to Samaria. He sent them to Jezreel's officers and leaders, as well as to the men who took care of Ahab's sons." 
2Kings10:2 This was what the letter said: ‘When this letter reaches you, your master's sons will be with you. You also have his chariots and horses in a strong city. And you have weapons." 
2Kings10:3 Choose the best person to be king from among your master's sons. Make him your king instead of his father. Then prepare to fight on behalf of your master's family.’ 
2Kings10:4 But the letter made the officers in Samaria very afraid. They said, ‘Even two kings could not win against Jehu. So we can never fight against him and win!’" 
2Kings10:5 So these people sent a message to Jehu: the officer who took care of the king's palace, the man who ruled the city of Samaria, the city's leaders, and the men who took care of Ahab's children. The message said, ‘We are your servants. We will do anything that you tell us. We will not make anyone king. You must do what you think is right.’" 
2Kings10:6 So Jehu wrote a second letter to them. It said, ‘If you are ready to help me and you will obey me, do this: Bring the heads of your master's sons here to me in Jezreel. Bring them by this time tomorrow.’ At that time, important leaders of the city were taking care of the king's 70 sons." 
2Kings10:7 When the letter arrived, these men took hold of the king's sons. They killed all 70 of them. They put their heads in baskets. Then they sent them to Jehu in Jezreel." 
2Kings10:8 Someone told Jehu, ‘They have brought the heads of the king's sons.’ Then Jehu said, ‘Put them in two heaps at the gate of the city. Leave them there until the morning.’" 
2Kings10:9 The next morning, Jehu went out to the city's gate. He stood there in front of all the people. He said to them, ‘You are not guilty of any murder. I was the one who decided to kill my master, the king. But who killed these descendants of Ahab? It was not my decision!" 
2Kings10:10 You must realize this. Every punishment that the Lord said would happen to Ahab's family must happen. The Lord has done what he told his servant Elijah he would do.’ 
2Kings10:11 After that, Jehu killed everybody in Jezreel who was a descendant of Ahab. He also killed Ahab's officers, his friends and his priests. No descendant of Ahab remained alive." 
2Kings10:12 Jehu left Jezreel and he went towards Samaria. He came to Beth Eked, where shepherds had a camp." 
2Kings10:13 He met some relatives of Ahaziah, the king of Judah. Jehu asked them, ‘Who are you?’ They said, ‘We are relatives of Ahaziah. We are going to Jezreel to visit the families of the king and his mother.’" 
2Kings10:14 Jehu said to his men, ‘Catch them, but do not kill them!’ So they took hold of them. Then they killed them all near the well at Beth Eked. They killed 42 people, so that none of them remained alive." 
2Kings10:15 When Jehu left Beth Eked, he met Rekab's son Jehonadab. He was coming to meet Jehu. Jehu said, ‘Hello! Do you trust me, as I trust you?’ Jehonadab answered, ‘Yes, I do!’ Jehu replied, ‘Then hold your hand out to me.’ So he did that and Jehu pulled him up into his chariot." 
2Kings10:16 Jehu said, ‘Come with me. You will see that I want to serve the Lord faithfully.’ So Jehonadab rode with Jehu in his chariot." 
2Kings10:17 Jehu arrived in Samaria. He killed all the descendants of Ahab who were still alive in Samaria. The Lord had told Elijah that this would happen. 
2Kings10:18 Then Jehu called all the people to come together. He said to them, ‘Ahab served Baal, but he did not do it very well. But I, Jehu, will serve Baal much better!" 
2Kings10:19 So tell all the prophets who serve Baal to come here, as well as all Baal's servants and his priests. Make sure that they all come. I want to offer a great sacrifice to Baal. If any of them does not come, I will punish him with death.’ But Jehu was deceiving them. He wanted to kill all Baal's servants." 
2Kings10:20 He gave a command, ‘Prepare a special day when we can all worship Baal.’ So Jehu's servants told everybody about it." 
2Kings10:21 Jehu sent a notice to everyone in Israel. All the servants of Baal came to the meeting. There was nobody who did not come. They all went into the temple of Baal, so that it was completely full of people." 
2Kings10:22 Then Jehu said to the man who took care of the special clothes, ‘Bring out the robes for the servants of Baal to wear.’ So the man brought out the robes for them." 
2Kings10:23 Then Jehu and Rekab's son Jehonadab went into the temple of Baal. Jehu said to the servants of Baal, ‘Look around carefully. Be sure that there are no servants of the Lord here with you. There must only be servants of Baal here.’" 
2Kings10:24 So they went into the temple to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings. But Jehu had put 80 of his men outside the temple. He had said to them, ‘Do not let any of these men escape. If you let anyone escape, I will punish you with death.’" 
2Kings10:25 When Jehu had finished offering the sacrifices, he said to the guards and the soldiers, ‘Go into the temple and kill all Baal's servants. Do not let any of them escape.’ So the guards and soldiers used their swords to cut all the people down. They threw the dead bodies out of the temple. Then they went into the inside room of the temple." 
2Kings10:26 They took out the stones from the house of Baal and they destroyed them. 
2Kings10:27 They broke the special stone pillar of Baal and they destroyed the temple. People still use it as a toilet, even today!" 
2Kings10:28 That is how Jehu stopped people from worshipping Baal in Israel. 
2Kings10:29 But Jehu did not turn away from the sins of Nebat's son, Jeroboam. Jeroboam had caused Israel to worship images of calves. There were still gold calves at Bethel and Dan." 
2Kings10:30 The Lord said to Jehu, ‘You have done well. You have done the things that I say are right. You have punished Ahab's family in the way that I wanted. So your descendants will be kings of Israel for four generations.’" 
2Kings10:31 But Jehu was not careful to obey completely the Law of the Lord, Israel's God. He did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam which he had caused Israel to do." 
2Kings10:32 In those days, the Lord began to make Israel's land smaller. King Hazael of Syria could attack the Israelites anywhere in their land" 
2Kings10:33 east of the Jordan River. He took from them all the land of Gilead. That included the land that belonged to the tribes of Gad, Reuben and Manasseh. Hazael took the land all the way from Aroer, along the Arnon Valley to Gilead and Bashan." 
2Kings10:34 The other things that happened while Jehu was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about all the great things that Jehu did. 
2Kings10:35 Jehu died and they buried him with his ancestors in Samaria. His son Jehoahaz became king after him. 
2Kings10:36 Jehu ruled over Israel as king in Samaria for 28 years. 
2Kings11:1 Ahaziah's mother, Athaliah, heard the news that her son was dead. So she started to kill all the royal family." 
2Kings11:2 Jehosheba was the daughter of King Jehoram of Judah and the sister of Ahaziah. When Athaliah's servants had come to murder the royal sons, Jehosheba took Ahaziah's son Joash away and she hid him. She put him in a bedroom in the temple to hide him from Athaliah. So Joash stayed alive." 
2Kings11:3 Joash and his nurse stayed safely in a room in the Lord 's temple while Queen Athaliah ruled Judah for six years. 
2Kings11:4 In the seventh year that Athaliah ruled Judah, the priest Jehoiada asked some of the king's officers to come to him. They were officers of army groups, the king's special guards and the palace guards. They came to meet with Jehoiada in the Lord 's temple. There, he made them promise to agree with his idea. Then he showed the king's son Joash to them." 
2Kings11:5 Jehoiada said to the officers, ‘This is what you must do: The men who come to work on the Sabbath day must make three groups. One group will keep the palace safe." 
2Kings11:6 Another group must stand at the Sur Gate. The third group must stand at the gate behind the special guards. 
2Kings11:7 The two groups of soldiers who would not come to work on the Sabbath day must do this: They must be guards at the Lord 's temple. They must keep the new king safe. 
2Kings11:8 You must stand around the king. Each man must hold his weapon in his hand. If anyone comes near to you, you must kill them. You must stay near to the king everywhere that he goes.’" 
2Kings11:9 The officers of the army groups did what Jehoiada the priest told them to do. Each officer brought his group of men to Jehoiada. That included the men who worked on the Sabbath and those who did not. 
2Kings11:10 Then Jehoiada gave some weapons that were in the Lord 's temple to the officers. He gave them the spears and the shields that had belonged to King David. 
2Kings11:11 The guards held their weapons in their hands. They stood around the king to keep him safe. They stood in a line from the south side of the temple to the north side. They were around the altar at the front of the temple. 
2Kings11:12 Then Jehoiada brought the king's son out of the temple room. He put the crown onto Joash's head. He gave him a copy of the royal covenant. They poured olive oil on his head to show that he was now the king. They clapped their hands and they shouted, ‘May the king have a long life!’" 
2Kings11:13 Queen Athaliah heard the soldiers and the people as they were shouting. So she went to the Lord 's temple where all the people were. 
2Kings11:14 Then she saw the king! He was standing in the king's place beside the pillar in the temple. The army officers and the men with trumpets were standing beside the king. All the people of Judah were shouting with joy. Many of them made music with trumpets. When Athaliah saw this, she was very upset. She tore her clothes. She shouted, ‘Treason! Treason!’" 
2Kings11:15 Jehoiada the priest gave a command to the army officers who had authority over groups of soldiers. He told them, ‘Bring her out of the temple to the line of guards outside. Use your swords to kill anyone who follows her.’ That was because Jehoiada had said, ‘You must not kill her inside the Lord 's temple.’" 
2Kings11:16 So they took hold of Athaliah. They took her through the gate for the king's horses into the yard of the palace. They killed her there. 
2Kings11:17 Jehoiada prepared a covenant with the Lord. All the people and the king agreed to serve the Lord as his people. The people also agreed to serve the king faithfully. 
2Kings11:18 Then people everywhere in the country went to the temple of Baal. They destroyed it. They completely knocked down its altars and idols. They killed Baal's priest, Mattan, in front of Baal's altars. Then Jehoiada the priest put guards to keep the Lord 's temple safe." 
2Kings11:19 Jehoiada took with him the officers of army groups, the king's special guards, the palace guards and all the people. They went together to bring the king down from the Lord 's temple into the palace. They went into the palace through the gate of the king's royal guards. Then Joash sat on his throne as king." 
2Kings11:20 All the people were very happy. There was no longer any trouble in Jerusalem now that Athaliah was dead. They had punished her with death at the palace. 
2Kings11:21 And Joash was seven years old when he began to rule Judah as king. 
2Kings12:1 Joash became king of Judah in the seventh year that Jehu was king of Israel. Joash ruled in Jerusalem for 40 years. His mother's name was Zibiah. She came from Beersheba. 
2Kings12:2 Jehoiada the priest taught Joash to do what was right. So Joash pleased the Lord all through his life. 
2Kings12:3 But Joash did not remove the altars on the hills. The people continued to offer sacrifices and to burn incense on those altars. 
2Kings12:4 Joash said to all the priests, ‘Bring together all the money that people have offered to the Lord in his temple. This includes: the money that each person pays as his tax, the money that people have given because of a promise, and the money that people have chosen to give for the temple." 
2Kings12:5 Each priest should receive the money that he needs to make repairs to the temple. When he sees that something is broken, he can use some of the people's money to mend it.’" 
2Kings12:6 When Joash had been king for 23 years, the priests had still not made any repairs to the temple." 
2Kings12:7 So King Joash called Jehoiada and the other priests to come to him. He said to them, ‘You have made no repairs to the temple yet! Why not? Do not take any more of your people's money! It must only be used to make repairs to the temple.’" 
2Kings12:8 The priests agreed that they would not take any more money from the people. They agreed that they would not make repairs to the temple themselves. 
2Kings12:9 Jehoiada the priest took a large box and he made a hole in the top of it. He put it outside the entrance of the temple, on the right side of the altar. The priests who were guards at the temple door took care of the box. When people brought gifts of money to the Lord 's temple, the priests put the money in the box." 
2Kings12:10 Whenever there was a lot of money in the box, the king's secretary and the leader of the priests counted the money. Then they put those gifts for the temple into bags." 
2Kings12:11 When they knew how much money was there, they gave it to the men who had authority over the work. Then those men paid the carpenters and the builders who were working on the Lord 's temple." 
2Kings12:12 They also paid the men that cut the stones and the men who used the stones to build with. They bought wood and they bought stones that people had cut to use for the repairs to the Lord 's temple. They used the money to pay for any work on the repairs. 
2Kings12:13 But they did not use any of this money to buy things that they used in the temple. This included: silver bowls, small tools that they used for the lamps, bowls for water, trumpets, and anything else that was made with silver or gold." 
2Kings12:14 Instead, they used all the money to give to the men who had authority over the repairs to the Lord 's temple." 
2Kings12:15 Those men did not have to give a report on how they used the money. People knew that they were honest men. 
2Kings12:16 But the money that people gave when they made a guilt offering or a sin offering belonged to the priests. It did not pay for the repairs on the temple. 
2Kings12:17 At that time, Hazael, the king of Syria, attacked Gath. His army took the city for him. Then King Hazael decided to attack Jerusalem." 
2Kings12:18 Joash, the king of Judah, took all the valuable things that he and his ancestors had given to God. Those ancestors were the kings of Judah: Jehoshaphat, Jehoram and Ahaziah. He also took gold that was in the palace and in the temple. He sent all those valuable things to Hazael, king of Syria. When Hazael received the gifts from Joash, he took his army away from Jerusalem." 
2Kings12:19 The other things that happened while Joash was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about all the things that Joash did. 
2Kings12:20 Joash's officers decided to kill him. Two of them murdered him at Beth Millo, on the road that goes down to Silla." 
2Kings12:21 The officers that killed him were Shimeath's son Jozabad and Shomer's son Jehozabad. People buried Joash beside his ancestors in the City of David. His son Amaziah became king after him. 
2Kings13:1 Jehu's son Jehoahaz became king of Israel when Ahaziah's son Joash had been king of Judah for 23 years. Jehoahaz ruled as king in Samaria for 17 years. 
2Kings13:2 But he did things that the Lord said were evil. He did the same bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. Jeroboam had caused many people in Israel to do those sins, and Jehoahaz did not stop doing them himself." 
2Kings13:3 So the Lord was very angry with Israel. For many years the Lord put the Israelites under the power of King Hazael of Syria and his son Ben-Hadad. 
2Kings13:4 Then King Jehoahaz asked the Lord for help. The Lord saw that the king of Syria was being very cruel to Israel, so he answered the prayer of Jehoahaz." 
2Kings13:5 The Lord sent a leader to rescue Israel from Syria's power. So the Israelites lived safely in their own homes, as they had done before this time." 
2Kings13:6 But the Israelites still did not turn away from the sins that Jeroboam and his family had done. Jeroboam had caused the Israelites to do bad things, and they still continued to do them. There were still Asherah poles that people worshipped in Samaria." 
2Kings13:7 The king of Syria had destroyed most of Jehoahaz's army. All that remained were: 50 soldiers that rode horses. 10 chariots. 10,000 other soldiers. The king of Syria completely destroyed all the rest of the army. Only dust remained!" 
2Kings13:8 The other things that happened while Jehoahaz was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about all the things that Jehoahaz used his power to do. 
2Kings13:9 Jehoahaz died and they buried him beside his ancestors in Samaria. His son Jehoash became king after him. 
2Kings13:10 Jehoahaz's son Jehoash became the king of Israel when Joash had been king of Judah for 37 years. He ruled as king in Samaria for 16 years. 
2Kings13:11 But he did things that the Lord said were evil. He did not turn away from the bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. Jeroboam had caused many people in Israel to do those sins, and Jehoahaz did not stop doing them himself." 
2Kings13:12 The other things that happened while Jehoash was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about all the great things that Jehoash did. It tells about the war that he fought against Amaziah, king of Judah" 
2Kings13:13 Jehoash died and they buried him in Samaria beside the other kings of Israel. Jeroboam became king of Israel after him. 
2Kings13:14 When Jehoash was still king of Israel, Elisha became very ill. It was the illness from which he would soon die. Jehoash went to visit him. Jehoash stood beside Elisha and he wept. Jehoash said, ‘My father! My father! You are riding in Israel's chariot! Israel's men are riding on the horses!’" 
2Kings13:15 Elisha said to King Jehoash, ‘Get a bow and some arrows.’ The king did that." 
2Kings13:16 Then Elisha said to the king of Israel, ‘Prepare to shoot an arrow.’ When he had done that, Elisha put his hands on the king's hands." 
2Kings13:17 Elisha said, ‘Open the window towards the east.’ When the king opened it, Elisha said, ‘Shoot the arrow!’ The king shot the arrow and Elisha said, ‘That is the Lord 's arrow which shows that you will win the battle against Syria. You will completely destroy Syria's army at Aphek.’" 
2Kings13:18 Then Elisha said, ‘Pick up the other arrows.’ When the king of Israel took them, Elisha said to him, ‘Hit the ground with them.’ The king hit the ground three times and then he stopped." 
2Kings13:19 The man of God then became angry with King Jehoash. He said, ‘You should have hit the ground five times or six times. Then you would have completely destroyed Syria's army. But now you will only win three battles against Syria.’" 
2Kings13:20 After that, Elisha died and they buried him. Every year in spring, groups of fighters from Moab came to attack places in Israel." 
2Kings13:21 One day some Israelites were burying a man who had died. While they were doing that, they saw a group of fighters from Moab. So they quickly threw the dead body into Elisha's grave. When the body touched Elisha's bones, the dead man became alive again! He jumped up and he stood there!" 
2Kings13:22 All the time that Jehoahaz was king of Israel, King Hazael of Syria was cruel to the Israelites." 
2Kings13:23 But the Lord was kind to them and he helped them. He loved them because of his covenant with their ancestors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. So he has never wanted to destroy them or to send them away from him, even until now." 
2Kings13:24 Hazael, the king of Syria, died. His son Ben-Hadad became king after him." 
2Kings13:25 Then Jehoahaz's son, King Jehoash, took back some Israelite cities from Ben-Hadad. They were cities that Hazael had taken from Jehoahaz in war. King Jehoash won three battles against Ben-Hadad and he took back those cities for Israel." 
2Kings14:1 Joash's son Amaziah became the king of Judah when Jehoahaz's son Jehoash had been the king of Israel for two years. 
2Kings14:2 Amaziah was 25 years old when he began to rule as king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Jehoaddin. She was from Jerusalem. 
2Kings14:3 Amaziah did things that the Lord said were good. He lived in the way that his father Joash had done. But he did not do as well as his ancestor King David had done. 
2Kings14:4 He did not remove the altars on the hills. The people continued to offer sacrifices and to burn incense on those altars. 
2Kings14:5 Amaziah made himself strong to rule his kingdom with authority. Then he killed the officers who had murdered his father, King Joash." 
2Kings14:6 But he did not punish their sons with death. He obeyed the Lord 's command that was written in the Book of the Law of Moses. The command says, ‘Do not punish fathers with death when their sons do bad things. Do not punish children with death when their fathers do bad things. Each person must die only because of his own sins.’" 
2Kings14:7 Amaziah killed 10,000 soldiers from Edom in Salt Valley. He attacked Sela city and he took it for himself. He gave it a new name, ‘Joktheel’. That is still its name." 
2Kings14:8 Then Amaziah sent men with a message to King Jehoash of Israel. He was the son of Jehoahaz and the grandson of Jehu. Amaziah's message said, ‘Come here and meet me.’" 
2Kings14:9 But King Jehoash of Israel sent this message back to King Amaziah of Judah: ‘In Lebanon, a thorn bush sent this message to a cedar tree: “Please give your daughter to my son, to be his wife.” Then a wild animal of Lebanon came and knocked down the thorn bush. It walked all over it!" 
2Kings14:10 Yes! You have won the fight against Edom. But do not boast about your power! You may be very happy, but stay at home! Do not try to fight against us. If you do that, you will cause trouble that destroys both you and your kingdom, Judah.’" 
2Kings14:11 But Amaziah did not accept Jehoash's message. So King Jehoash of Israel prepared to attack Amaziah's army. Jehoash and Amaziah met together in battle at Beth Shemesh, a town in Judah." 
2Kings14:12 Israel's army won the battle against Judah's army. All the soldiers from Judah ran back home. 
2Kings14:13 At Beth Shemesh, King Jehoash of Israel caught the king of Judah, Amaziah, the son of Joash and the grandson of Ahaziah. Then King Jehoash went to attack Jerusalem. He destroyed the wall of Jerusalem, between the Ephraim Gate and the Corner Gate. That part of the wall was 180 metres long." 
2Kings14:14 He took all the gold and silver and all the valuable things from the Lord 's temple and the palace. He also took some of the people away with him as prisoners. Then he returned to Samaria. 
2Kings14:15 The other things that happened while Jehoash was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about all the great things that Jehoash did. It tells about the war that he fought against King Amaziah of Judah. 
2Kings14:16 Jehoash died and they buried him beside the other kings of Israel in Samaria. His son Jeroboam became king after him. 
2Kings14:17 Joash's son Amaziah, the king of Judah, lived for 15 years after Jehoahaz's son Jehoash, the king of Israel, died." 
2Kings14:18 The other things that happened while Amaziah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. 
2Kings14:19 Some people in Jerusalem made a plan to kill Amaziah. So he ran away to Lachish. But the people in Jerusalem sent men to catch him in Lachish. They killed Amaziah there. 
2Kings14:20 They carried his dead body back to Jerusalem on a horse. They buried him there beside his ancestors in the City of David. 
2Kings14:21 All the people in Judah made Amaziah's son Azariah king instead of his father. Azariah was 16 years old. 
2Kings14:22 He was the king who built Elath into a strong city again. He put it back under Judah's power. He did that after his father Amaziah had died. 
2Kings14:23 Jehoash's son Jeroboam became the king of Israel when Joash's son Amaziah had been king of Judah for 15 years. Jeroboam ruled Israel for 41 years in Samaria. 
2Kings14:24 He did things that the Lord said were evil. He did not turn away from the bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. He had caused many people in Israel to do those sins. 
2Kings14:25 Jeroboam was the king who made Israel's border strong between Lebo-Hamath and the Salt Sea. The Lord, Israel's God, had already told his prophet Jonah that this would happen. Jonah was the son of Amittai and he came from Gath Hepher." 
2Kings14:25 Jeroboam was the king who made Israel's border strong between Lebo-Hamath and the Salt Sea. The Lord, Israel's God, had already told his prophet Jonah that this would happen. Jonah was the son of Amittai and he came from Gath Hepher." 
2Kings14:26 Everyone in Israel suffered very much, whoever they were. There was no leader who could rescue them. The Lord had seen this, so he helped Jeroboam." 
2Kings14:27 The Lord had never said that he would completely remove Israel from the earth. So he gave Jehoash's son Jeroboam the power to rescue them. 
2Kings14:28 The other things that happened while Jeroboam was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about all the great things that Jeroboam did. It tells how he fought battles to get back power for Israel over Damascus and Hamath. 
2Kings14:29 Jeroboam died and they buried him beside the other kings of Israel in Samaria. His son Zechariah became king after him. 
2Kings14:29 Jeroboam died and they buried him beside the other kings of Israel in Samaria. His son Zechariah became king after him. 
2Kings15:1 Amaziah's son Azariah became king of Judah when Jeroboam had been king of Israel for 27 years. 
2Kings15:2 Azariah was 16 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 52 years. His mother's name was Jecoliah. She came from Jerusalem. 
2Kings15:3 Azariah did things that the Lord said were good, as his father Amaziah had done." 
2Kings15:4 But he did not remove the altars on the hills. The people continued to offer sacrifices and to burn incense on those altars. 
2Kings15:5 The Lord caused the king to have a bad disease in his skin. He had the disease until the day that he died. He lived in a house away from other people. His son Jotham had authority in the palace and he ruled the people of Judah. 
2Kings15:6 The other things that happened while Azariah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about the things that Azariah did. 
2Kings15:7 Azariah died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David. His son Jotham became king after him. 
2Kings15:8 Jeroboam's son Zechariah became king of Israel when Azariah had been king of Judah for 38 years. He ruled Israel as king in Samaria for six months. 
2Kings15:8 Jeroboam's son Zechariah became king of Israel when Azariah had been king of Judah for 38 years. He ruled Israel as king in Samaria for six months. 
2Kings15:9 Zechariah did things that the Lord said were evil, as his ancestors had done. He did not turn away from the bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. Jeroboam had caused many people in Israel to do those sins." 
2Kings15:9 Zechariah did things that the Lord said were evil, as his ancestors had done. He did not turn away from the bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. Jeroboam had caused many people in Israel to do those sins." 
2Kings15:10 Jabesh's son Shallum made a plan to kill Zechariah. Shallum murdered Zechariah at Ibleam and he became king himself. 
2Kings15:10 Jabesh's son Shallum made a plan to kill Zechariah. Shallum murdered Zechariah at Ibleam and he became king himself. 
2Kings15:11 The other things that happened while Zechariah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. 
2Kings15:11 The other things that happened while Zechariah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. 
2Kings15:12 The Lord had given this promise to Jehu: ‘Your descendants will be kings of Israel for four generations.’ That is what happened. 
2Kings15:13 Jabesh's son Shallum became the king of Israel when Uzziah had been king of Judah for 39 years. He ruled as king in Samaria for one month. 
2Kings15:14 Then Gadi's son Menahem went from Tirzah up to Samaria. He attacked King Shallum and he killed him. Menahem became king of Israel instead. 
2Kings15:15 The other things that happened while Shallum was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about the plan that he made to kill King Zechariah. 
2Kings15:15 The other things that happened while Shallum was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about the plan that he made to kill King Zechariah. 
2Kings15:16 At that time, when Menahem came from Tirzah, he attacked the city of Tiphsah. The people who lived there refused to let him go into their city. So he killed them all. He even cut open the pregnant women." 
2Kings15:17 Gadi's son Menahem became the king of Israel when Azariah had been king of Judah for 39 years. He ruled as king in Samaria for ten years. 
2Kings15:18 Menahem did things that the Lord said were evil. He did not turn away from the bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. Jeroboam had caused many people in Israel to do those sins. 
2Kings15:19 Then Pul, the king of Assyria, attacked the land of Israel. Menahem paid him 34 tons of silver to help him to rule Israel with greater power." 
2Kings15:20 Menahem made all the rich people in Israel pay taxes to him. Every rich man had to pay 50 silver coins. Menahem gave that money to the king of Assyria. Then the king of Assyria went away. He did not stay any longer in Israel. 
2Kings15:21 The other things that happened while Menahem was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about the things that Menahem did. 
2Kings15:22 Menahem died and his son, Pekahiah, became king after him." 
2Kings15:23 Menahem's son Pekahiah became the king of Israel when Azariah had been king of Judah for 50 years. He ruled Israel as king in Samaria for two years. 
2Kings15:24 Pekahiah did things that the Lord said were evil. He did not turn away from the bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. Jeroboam had caused many people in Israel to do those sins. 
2Kings15:25 One of Pekahiah's officers was Remaliah's son, Pekah. Pekah made a plan to kill Pekahiah. He took 50 men from Gilead with him, and he killed King Pekahiah. He also killed Argob and Arieh. He killed them all in a strong room in the king's palace in Samaria. Pekah then became king instead of Pekahiah." 
2Kings15:26 The other things that happened while Pekahiah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about the things that Pekahiah did. 
2Kings15:27 Remaliah's son Pekah became the king of Israel when Azariah had been king of Judah for 52 years. He ruled Israel as king in Samaria for 20 years. 
2Kings15:28 Pekah did things that the Lord said were evil. He did not turn away from the bad things that Nebat's son Jeroboam had done. Jeroboam had caused many people in Israel to do those sins. 
2Kings15:29 While Pekah was the king of Israel, the king of Assyria, Tiglath-Pileser, attacked towns in Israel. He took these places for himself: Ijon, Abel Beth Maakah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, Galilee and all of Naphtali's land. He took the people that lived in those places as prisoners to Assyria." 
2Kings15:30 Then Elah's son Hoshea made a plan to kill Remaliah's son, Pekah. Hoshea murdered Pekah and he became king instead. That happened when Uzziah's son Jotham had been king of Judah for 20 years." 
2Kings15:31 The other things that happened while Pekah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It tells about the things that Pekah did. 
2Kings15:32 Uzziah's son Jotham became the king of Judah when Remaliah's son Pekah had been king of Israel for two years. 
2Kings15:33 Jotham was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled Judah as king in Jerusalem for 16 years. His mother's name was Jerusha. She was Zadok's daughter. 
2Kings15:34 Jotham did things that the Lord said were good, as his father Uzziah had done." 
2Kings15:35 But he did not remove the altars on the hills. The people continued to offer sacrifices and to burn incense on those altars. Jotham built the Higher Gate of the Lord 's temple. 
2Kings15:36 The other things that happened while Jotham was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about the things that Jotham did. 
2Kings15:37 While Jotham was king, the Lord began to send King Rezin of Syria and Remaliah's son Pekah to attack Judah." 
2Kings15:38 Jotham died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David, who was his ancestor. His son Ahaz became king after him." 
2Kings16:1 Jotham's son Ahaz became the king of Judah when Remaliah's son Pekah had been king of Israel for 17 years. 
2Kings16:2 Ahaz was 20 years old when he became king. He ruled Judah as king in Jerusalem for 16 years. He did not do the things that the Lord his God said were good. So he was not like his ancestor, King David." 
2Kings16:3 He lived in the same bad way that the kings of Israel did. He even caused his son to walk through fire. In this way he copied the terrible sins of the other nations in Canaan. Those were the nations that the Lord had chased out so that the Israelites could live there. 
2Kings16:4 Ahaz offered sacrifices and he burned incense on altars on the hills, as well as under all the big trees." 
2Kings16:5 At that time, King Rezin of Syria and Remaliah's son, King Pekah of Israel, attacked Jerusalem. Their armies made a camp all around the city while Ahaz was there. But they could not win the battle against him." 
2Kings16:6 (At the same time, King Rezin got Elath town back for Syria. He chased out the people of Judah who were living there. People from Edom then moved into Elath, and they are still living there.)" 
2Kings16:7 King Ahaz sent a message to Tiglath-Pileser, the king of Assyria. He said, ‘I am your servant and I need your help. The king of Syria and the king of Israel have brought their armies to attack me in Jerusalem. Please come here to rescue me.’" 
2Kings16:8 Ahaz took the silver and gold things that were stored in the Lord 's temple and in the palace. He sent them all as a gift to the king of Assyria. 
2Kings16:9 So the king of Assyria agreed to do what Ahaz had asked him to do. He attacked Damascus and he took the city for himself. He sent the people who had lived there to Kir as his prisoners. He punished King Rezin with death. 
2Kings16:10 King Ahaz went to Damascus to meet King Tiglath-Pileser of Assyria. When he was there, he saw an altar. He sent a picture and a plan of the altar to Uriah, the priest, so that someone could build one for him." 
2Kings16:11 So Uriah built an altar that copied the plan that King Ahaz had sent from Damascus. Uriah finished it before King Ahaz returned. 
2Kings16:12 When the king arrived in Jerusalem from Damascus, he saw the new altar. He went near it to offer sacrifices on it." 
2Kings16:13 He made a burnt offering and a grain offering. He poured wine as a drink offering. He splashed the blood from his peace offerings onto the altar. 
2Kings16:14 A bronze altar stood in front of the Lord 's temple to bring sacrifices to him. Now it stood between the new altar and the front of the temple. So Ahaz moved it away from there. He put it on the north side of the new altar. 
2Kings16:15 Then King Ahaz commanded Uriah the priest, ‘On the large new altar, offer these gifts: A burnt offering for each morning. A grain offering for each evening. A burnt offering and a grain offering on behalf of the king. A burnt offering on behalf of all the people of Israel. A grain offering and drink offerings on behalf of the people. Splash the blood from all these sacrifices on the new altar. But I will use the bronze altar myself, to find out about my future times.’" 
2Kings16:16 So Uriah the priest did what King Ahaz had commanded him to do. 
2Kings16:17 King Ahaz also removed the pieces on the sides of the carts which carried the buckets for water. He also removed the buckets. He took the large bath called ‘the Sea’ from the top of the bronze bulls that it stood on. He stood it on a big flat stone instead. 
2Kings16:18 He removed the roof that gave shade for people in the temple yard on the Sabbath days. He also removed the king's special entrance into the temple yard. He did these things to please the king of Assyria. 
2Kings16:19 The other things that happened while Ahaz was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about the things that Ahaz did. 
2Kings16:20 Ahaz died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David. His son Hezekiah became king after him. 
2Kings17:1 Elah's son Hoshea became the king of Israel when Ahaz had been king of Judah for 12 years. Hoshea ruled Israel as king in Samaria for nine years. 
2Kings17:2 Hoshea did things that the Lord said were evil. But he was not as wicked as the kings of Israel who lived before him. 
2Kings17:3 Shalmaneser, the king of Assyria, came to attack Hoshea in Samaria. Hoshea agreed to accept Shalmaneser's authority. Israel had to pay a lot of money as taxes to Shalmaneser each year." 
2Kings17:4 Then King Shalmaneser discovered that Hoshea had decided to turn against him. Hoshea had sent a message to So, the king of Egypt, to ask for his help. He had also refused to send the taxes for that year to the king of Assyria. So King Shalmaneser took hold of Hoshea and he put him in prison." 
2Kings17:5 The king of Assyria took his army and he marched through all the land of Israel. He attacked Samaria. His army made their camp around the city for three years. 
2Kings17:6 When Hoshea had been king of Israel for nine years, the king of Assyria won the war against Samaria. He took the Israelites away to Assyria as his prisoners. He caused them to live in Halah, in Gozan beside the River Habor and in towns in Media." 
2Kings17:7 All this happened because the Israelites did bad things against the Lord, their God. The Lord had brought them safely out of Egypt. He had rescued them from the power of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. But now they worshipped other gods." 
2Kings17:8 They did the same bad things that the nations that lived in Canaan did. The Lord had chased those nations out of Canaan so that the Israelites could live there. The Israelites copied the bad things that the kings of Israel were doing. 
2Kings17:9 They secretly did things that the Lord their God said were not right. In all their towns, they built altars to worship false gods. They built them everywhere, in small villages and in strong cities." 
2Kings17:10 They put up stone pillars and Asherah poles to worship their gods. They put them on top of all the high hills and under all the big trees. 
2Kings17:11 At all those places they burned incense to worship their gods, as the nations in Canaan had done. The Lord had chased those nations out of Canaan so that the Israelites could live there. The Israelites did evil things that made the Lord very angry." 
2Kings17:12 They refused to obey the Lord 's command and they worshipped useless idols. 
2Kings17:13 The Lord had used his prophets and his other servants to warn the people of Israel and Judah. He told them, ‘Stop living in an evil way. Obey my Law, with its commands and its rules. I gave my Law to your ancestors so that they would obey it. I also used my servants, the prophets, to teach it to you.’" 
2Kings17:14 But the Israelites would not agree to obey God's Law. They were proud and they refused to obey. Like their ancestors, they did not trust in the Lord their God." 
2Kings17:15 They did not obey God's rules. They did not accept the covenant that he had made with their ancestors. They did not listen when he warned them. Instead, they worshipped useless idols, which caused them to become useless themselves. The Lord had commanded them not to live in the same way that the nations around them did. But they did that anyway." 
2Kings17:16 They turned away from all the commands of the Lord their God. They used metal to make images of two calves as their idols. They also made an Asherah pole to worship. They worshipped all the stars in the sky and they served Baal. 
2Kings17:17 They burned their sons and their daughters in fire as offerings to Baal. They used magic to find out what would happen in the future. They chose to do things that the Lord said were evil. That made him very angry. 
2Kings17:18 The Lord was so angry with Israel that he sent them far away from himself. Only the tribe of Judah remained. 
2Kings17:19 But even the people of Judah did not obey the commands of the Lord their God. They did the same bad things that the Israelites had done. 
2Kings17:20 So the Lord turned against all the descendants of Israel. He punished them. He put them under the power of robbers. In that way, he chased them far away from himself." 
2Kings17:21 God made Israel become a separate kingdom from David's family, Judah. Then Israel chose Nebat's son Jeroboam to be their king. Jeroboam caused the Israelites to turn away from the Lord. He led them to do terrible sins." 
2Kings17:22 The Israelites continued to live in the bad way that Jeroboam showed them. They did not turn away from those sins. 
2Kings17:23 Finally, the Lord sent the Israelites away from himself. He had used his servants, the prophets, to warn them that this would happen. As a result, the Assyrian army took the Israelites away from their own land as prisoners to Assyria. They still live there, even today." 
2Kings17:24 The king of Assyria brought foreign people to live in the towns of Samaria. They came from Babylon, Cuthah, Avva, Hamath and Sepharvaim. They lived in places in Samaria where the Israelites had lived. They took Samaria for themselves and they lived in its towns." 
2Kings17:25 When those people first lived in Samaria, they did not worship the Lord. So the Lord sent lions among them. The lions were killing some of the people." 
2Kings17:26 People told the king of Assyria, ‘You sent some nations of people to go and live in the towns of Samaria. But they do not know how to obey the rules of that country's god. So he has sent lions to attack them. The lions are killing them because they do not know the rules of that country's god.’" 
2Kings17:27 The king of Assyria replied, ‘You took some Israelite priests away from Samaria as prisoners. Send one of them back to live there. Then he can teach the people what the god of that country wants them to do.’" 
2Kings17:28 So they sent back one of the priests that they had caught and taken away to Assyria. He went to live in Bethel. He taught the people how to worship the Lord properly. 
2Kings17:29 But the people of each nation that had gone to live in Samaria made their own idols to worship. They put them at the altars that the Israelites had built on the hills. They did this in each town where they lived. 
2Kings17:30 The people from Babylon made idols of the god called Succoth-Benoth. The people from Cuthah made idols of the god called Nergal. The people from Hamath made idols of the god called Ashima. 
2Kings17:31 The people from Avva made idols of their gods called Nibhaz and Tartak. The people from Sepharvaim burned their children in fire as offerings to their gods, Adrammelech and Anammelech." 
2Kings17:32 The foreign people in Samaria also worshipped the Lord. They chose some of their own people to serve as priests at the altars on the hills. 
2Kings17:33 In this way, they worshipped the Lord, but they also served their own gods. They did that in the way that they had always done in their own countries. That was what they did before the Assyrians sent them to live in Samaria." 
2Kings17:34 Even today, they still do things in the same way that they have always done them. They do not truly worship the Lord. They do not obey his rules, his laws or his teaching. They do not obey the commands that the Lord gave to the descendants of Jacob. Jacob was the man that the Lord gave a new name to. He gave him the name ‘Israel’." 
2Kings17:35 The Lord made a covenant with the descendants of Israel. He said to them, ‘Do not worship any other gods. Do not bend down low to give them honour. Do not serve them. Do not offer any sacrifices to them." 
2Kings17:36 Instead, you must worship only the Lord. He is the one who used his great power to bring you safely out of Egypt. Bend down low to give him honour. Offer sacrifices to him." 
2Kings17:37 You must be careful to obey his rules, his teaching, his laws and his commands that he wrote for you. You must not worship other gods." 
2Kings17:38 Never forget the covenant that I made with you. Do not worship any other gods. 
2Kings17:39 Instead, you must only worship the Lord your God. It is he who will save you from the power of all your enemies.’" 
2Kings17:40 But the foreign people who now lived in Samaria would not accept the Lord 's teaching. They continued to live in the way that they always had done. 
2Kings17:41 Even while they were worshipping the Lord, they continued to serve their own idols. Their children and their grandchildren continue to live as their fathers did, even today." 
2Kings18:1 Ahaz's son Hezekiah became the king of Judah when Elah's son Hoshea had been king of Israel for three years. 
2Kings18:2 Hezekiah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled Judah as king in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Abijah. She was the daughter of Zechariah. 
2Kings18:2 Hezekiah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled Judah as king in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Abijah. She was the daughter of Zechariah. 
2Kings18:3 Hezekiah did things that the Lord said were good, as his ancestor King David had done." 
2Kings18:4 He removed the altars on the hills. He knocked down the stone pillars that people worshipped and he cut down the Asherah poles. He broke into pieces the bronze snake that Moses had made. Until then, the Israelites had burned incense as an offering to it. It was called Nehushtan." 
2Kings18:5 Hezekiah trusted the Lord, Israel's God. None of the other kings of Judah was like him, either before him or after him." 
2Kings18:6 He served the Lord faithfully. He obeyed the laws that the Lord had given to Moses. 
2Kings18:7 The Lord was with Hezekiah so that he was successful in everything that he decided to do. He turned against the king of Assyria. He refused to serve him. 
2Kings18:8 He won battles against the Philistines as far as Gaza. He took all their towns, large and small." 
2Kings18:9 When Hezekiah had been king for four years, Shalmaneser, the king of Assyria, took his army to attack Samaria. That was when Hoshea had been king of Israel for seven years. The Assyrian army made their camp around the city of Samaria." 
2Kings18:10 After three years, the Assyrian army took the city. So that happened in the sixth year that Hezekiah ruled Judah. It was the ninth year that King Hoshea ruled over Israel." 
2Kings18:11 The king of Assyria took the Israelites as prisoners to Assyria. He caused them to live in Halah, at Gozan beside the River Habor and in the towns in Media." 
2Kings18:12 This happened because they had not obeyed the Lord their God. They had not obeyed the covenant that he had made with them. They did not accept the teaching that Moses, the Lord 's servant, had commanded them to obey." 
2Kings18:13 When Hezekiah had ruled Judah for 14 years, King Sennacherib of Assyria attacked Judah with his army. He took all the strong cities in Judah for himself." 
2Kings18:14 So King Hezekiah of Judah sent a message to the king of Assyria, who was in Lachish. Hezekiah said, ‘What I did was wrong. Please take your army out of Judah. Then I will pay you everything that you ask me to pay.’ The king of Assyria told King Hezekiah that he must pay ten tons of silver and one ton of gold." 
2Kings18:15 So Hezekiah gave Sennacherib all the silver that was stored in the Lord 's temple and in the palace. 
2Kings18:16 At the same time, Hezekiah removed the gold that he had used to cover the doors of the Lord 's temple. He also took the gold off the wood at the sides of the doors. He gave all that gold to the king of Assyria." 
2Kings18:17 King Sennacherib of Assyria sent his three most important officers from Lachish to Jerusalem, to speak to King Hezekiah. The three officers took a large army with them. They arrived in Jerusalem. They went and stood at the stream of water that came from the higher pool. It was on the road to the field where people washed clothes." 
2Kings18:18 They told King Hezekiah to come to them. These three people went out to meet them: Hilkiah's son Eliakim, who was the most important officer in the king's palace. Shebna, a government officer. Asaph's son Joah, the king's secretary." 
2Kings18:19 One of Sennacherib's officers said to them, ‘Tell Hezekiah that the king of Assyria, the great king, says this to him: “Why are you so sure that someone will rescue you from our power?" 
2Kings18:20 You say that you have good plans. You say that your army is strong. But those are only useless words! You have turned against me, so who are you trusting to save you?" 
2Kings18:21 Listen to me! You think that Egypt is strong enough to help you, do you? But you should not trust Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. He is like a weak stick. If you use it to walk with, it will break! A broken piece of stick will make a hole through your hand and give you much pain! That is the trouble that the king of Egypt brings to everyone who trusts him to help them." 
2Kings18:22 But maybe you will say to me, ‘We are trusting the Lord our God to help us.’ But it was your king, Hezekiah, who removed the altars and the special places where you worship your God. He told the people of Judah and Jerusalem, ‘You must worship God only at the altar here in Jerusalem.’ ”" 
2Kings18:23 So you should make an agreement with my master, the king of Assyria. I will give you 2,000 horses if you have enough riders to put on them." 
2Kings18:24 You cannot refuse what I offer to you! And I am only an unimportant officer who serves my master. You are hoping that Egypt will give you chariots and men to ride on horses. But you will never be strong enough to win a battle against us. 
2Kings18:25 You should also understand this: It was the Lord himself who commanded me to bring my army here and attack Jerusalem. He said to me, “Attack this country and destroy it!” ’" 
2Kings18:26 Then Hilkiah's son Eliakim, Shebna and Joah said to the leader of the Assyrian army, ‘Please sir, speak to us in the Aramaic language. We can understand it. Do not speak to us in the Hebrew language because all the people who are on the wall of the city will understand it.’" 
2Kings18:27 But the Assyrian army leader replied, ‘My master did not send me here to give this message only to your king and to you. The men who are sitting on the city wall also need to hear my master's message. Like you, they will soon have to eat their own dung and to drink their own urine.’" 
2Kings18:28 Then the Assyrian army leader stood there and he shouted in the Hebrew language, ‘Listen to this message from the king of Assyria, the great king!" 
2Kings18:29 This is what the king says: “Do not let Hezekiah deceive you. He cannot save you from my power. 
2Kings18:30 Do not believe Hezekiah when he tells you that you can trust the Lord to help you. He says, ‘The Lord will surely rescue us. He will not let the king of Assyria take this city for himself.’" 
2Kings18:31 Do not believe what Hezekiah says.” This is what the king of Assyria says: “Show me that you accept my offer of peace and come out of your city. Then you will all live safely in your homes. You will eat the fruit from your own vines and fig trees. You will drink the water from your own wells. 
2Kings18:32 Later, I will come to Jerusalem. I will take you away to a country that is like your own land here. There will be plenty of grain and new wine for you in that country. There will be bread and there will be vineyards. There will be olive trees and there will be honey. Choose life instead of death! Do not listen to Hezekiah. He is deceiving you when he says, ‘The Lord will rescue us.’" 
2Kings18:33 No god of any nation has ever saved his country from the king of Assyria's power. 
2Kings18:34 The gods of Hamath and Arpad could not help their people. The gods of Sepharvaim, Hena and Ivvah could not help their people either. No god was able to rescue Samaria from my power." 
2Kings18:35 No god among all the gods of those countries could save their people from my power. So do not think that the Lord can save Jerusalem from my power.” ’ 
2Kings18:36 When the people who were sitting on the wall heard this, they were quiet. They did not reply, because King Hezekiah had said, ‘Do not answer him.’" 
2Kings18:37 Then King Hezekiah's three officers, Eliakim, Shebna and Joah, went back to Hezekiah. They had torn their clothes because they were very upset. They told the king what the Assyrian officer had said." 
2Kings19:1 When King Hezekiah heard the report of his officers, he tore his clothes. Then he put on rough sackcloth and he went into the Lord 's temple." 
2Kings19:2 He sent Eliakim, Shebna and the leaders of the priests to Amoz's son, Isaiah the prophet. Eliakim was the most important officer in the king's palace. Shebna was a government officer. They were all wearing sackcloth." 
2Kings19:2 He sent Eliakim, Shebna and the leaders of the priests to Amoz's son, Isaiah the prophet. Eliakim was the most important officer in the king's palace. Shebna was a government officer. They were all wearing sackcloth." 
2Kings19:3 They told Hezekiah's message to Isaiah: ‘This is a time of great trouble. Assyria has insulted us to make us ashamed. Our nation is like a woman who is ready to give birth, but she is too weak to push the child out." 
2Kings19:3 They told Hezekiah's message to Isaiah: ‘This is a time of great trouble. Assyria has insulted us to make us ashamed. Our nation is like a woman who is ready to give birth, but she is too weak to push the child out." 
2Kings19:4 The Assyrian officer has brought a message from his king to insult the God who lives for ever. Maybe the Lord your God has heard that message. He should punish the officer for his wicked message. So please pray for the people who remain in Jerusalem.’ 
2Kings19:5 When King Hezekiah's officers told their message to Isaiah," 
2Kings19:5 When King Hezekiah's officers told their message to Isaiah," 
2Kings19:6 Isaiah said to them, ‘Tell your master that the Lord says this: “Do not let the words that you have heard make you afraid. The servants of the king of Assyria have insulted me, the Lord." 
2Kings19:6 Isaiah said to them, ‘Tell your master that the Lord says this: “Do not let the words that you have heard make you afraid. The servants of the king of Assyria have insulted me, the Lord." 
2Kings19:7 Listen to me! I will put a spirit into the king of Assyria's mind. He will hear a report which will cause him to return to his own country. There, in his own land, I will cause someone to kill him with a sword.” ’" 
2Kings19:8 At that time, the king of Assyria had left Lachish city. When the Assyrian officer heard that news, he left Jerusalem. He went to meet the king at Libnah, where the king was now fighting a battle." 
2Kings19:9 Then the king of Assyria heard a report about Tirhakah, the king of Ethiopia. People told him, ‘He has brought his army from Ethiopia to fight against you.’ When the king of Assyria heard that news, he sent another message to Hezekiah in Jerusalem." 
2Kings19:10 This was his message to King Hezekiah of Judah: ‘You are hoping that your God will help you. Your God may say that the king of Assyria will not destroy Jerusalem. But do not let him deceive you. 
2Kings19:11 You have heard how the kings of Assyria have completely destroyed all other countries. So do not think that your God will rescue you. 
2Kings19:12 The gods of those other countries did not save them. Our kings destroyed the nations of Gozan, Haran and Rezeph. They killed the people of Eden who lived in Tel Assar." 
2Kings19:13 The kings of Hamath and Arpad have gone. The king of Sepharvaim city has gone. The kings of Hena and Ivvah have also gone.’ 
2Kings19:14 When Hezekiah received the letter with this message, he read it. Then he went up to the Lord 's temple. He put the letter there, in front of the Lord." 
2Kings19:15 Hezekiah prayed to the Lord. He said, ‘ Lord, you are Israel's God. You sit on your throne between the cherubs. Only you are the God who rules all the kingdoms in the world. You have made the heavens and the earth." 
2Kings19:16 Lord, please listen carefully to me. Lord, look carefully at this letter. Listen to Sennacherib's message. He is insulting you, the God who lives for ever." 
2Kings19:17 It is true, Lord, that the kings of Assyria have destroyed these nations and their lands." 
2Kings19:18 They have thrown the gods of these nations into the fire. Those idols are not really gods. People used wood and stone to make them. So the Assyrians could destroy them. 
2Kings19:19 So now, our Lord and our God, please save us from the power of Sennacherib! Then all the kingdoms in the world will know that you Lord are the only God.’" 
2Kings19:20 Then Amoz's son Isaiah sent this message to Hezekiah: ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says, “I heard your prayer to me about Sennacherib, the king of Assyria.”" 
2Kings19:20 Then Amoz's son Isaiah sent this message to Hezekiah: ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says, “I heard your prayer to me about Sennacherib, the king of Assyria.”" 
2Kings19:21 This is the Lord 's reply. The Lord says this about King Sennacherib: “The holy people of Zion laugh at you! They think that you are useless. Yes, the people of Jerusalem shake their heads as you run away." 
2Kings19:22 Who do you think it is that you have insulted? Who have you shouted at? Who have you looked at so proudly? The answer is the Holy God of Israel! 
2Kings19:23 You have sent your servants to insult the Lord God. You said, ‘I have taken all my chariots and I have gone up high mountains, the highest mountains in Lebanon. I have cut down its tall cedar trees, and I have cut down its best pine trees. I went up to its highest places, and I went far into its forests." 
2Kings19:24 I dug wells in other countries, and they gave me water to drink. My army marched through all the rivers in Egypt, and the rivers became dry.’" 
2Kings19:25 You said that, but now listen to this! You must surely have heard it already. I decided what to do a long time ago! Now I am causing it to happen. I decided that you would destroy strong cities so that they became heaps of stones." 
2Kings19:26 The people of those cities have no power. They are afraid and they are confused. They are like plants in a field, that cannot live for a long time. They are like fresh green grass, or grass that grows on the roof of a house. When a hot wind blows on them, it burns them and they die." 
2Kings19:27 I know everything about you. I know where you live. I know when you go out. And I know when you return home. I know how much you shout against me, when you are angry." 
2Kings19:28 Yes, you do shout at me! And I have heard all your proud noise. So I will put my hook in your nose. I will tie a rope to your mouth. Then I will pull you back home by the same way that you came.”" 
2Kings19:29 King Hezekiah, this is how you will know that I have spoken a true message from the Lord. This year, you will eat crops that grow by themselves. And next year you will eat what grows from the same seeds. But in the third year you will plant seeds for yourselves, and they will give you a harvest of crops. You will plant vines again and you will eat grapes from them." 
2Kings19:30 The people who remain in Judah will be like strong plants that put their roots down into the ground. Their branches will give lots of fruit. 
2Kings19:31 A small number of people will still be alive in Jerusalem. They will leave Mount Zion and they will go to other places. The great love that the Lord Almighty has for his people will cause that to happen! 
2Kings19:32 This is what the Lord says about the king of Assyria: “His army will not come into this city. His soldiers will not shoot any arrows here. They will not attack the city as they hold their shields. They will not build heaps of earth against the city's walls. 
2Kings19:33 No! The king will return home by the way that he came. He will not come into this city.” That is what the Lord says. 
2Kings19:34 “I will make this city safe and I will rescue it. I will do that to show that I am great. I promised my servant David that I would do it. So I will do it.” ’ 
2Kings19:35 That night, the Lord 's angel went to the camp of the Assyrian army. He killed 185,000 of their soldiers. When people got up in the morning, they saw all those dead bodies!" 
2Kings19:36 So King Sennacherib of Assyria took his army away. He returned to Assyria and he lived in Nineveh. 
2Kings19:37 One day, Sennacherib was worshipping his god Nisrok in Nisrok's temple. Two of Sennacherib's sons, Adrammelech and Sharezer, went in and they killed him with their swords. Then they ran away to the region of Ararat. Sennacherib's son Esarhaddon now ruled Assyria as king." 
2Kings20:1 At that time, Hezekiah became very ill. He nearly died. Then Amoz's son, Isaiah the prophet, went to Hezekiah. He said to Hezekiah, ‘This is what the Lord says: “You will soon die. You will not become well again. So you must tell your family what to do after your death.” ’" 
2Kings20:1 At that time, Hezekiah became very ill. He nearly died. Then Amoz's son, Isaiah the prophet, went to Hezekiah. He said to Hezekiah, ‘This is what the Lord says: “You will soon die. You will not become well again. So you must tell your family what to do after your death.” ’" 
2Kings20:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face towards the wall and he prayed to the Lord. 
2Kings20:3 He said, ‘ Lord, please remember that I have served you well. I have always obeyed you. You could trust me to do the things that you told me to do.’ Hezekiah wept very much." 
2Kings20:4 While Isaiah was still in the middle yard of the palace, the Lord gave him this message:" 
2Kings20:4 While Isaiah was still in the middle yard of the palace, the Lord gave him this message:" 
2Kings20:5 ‘Go back! Say to Hezekiah, the leader of my people, “This is what the Lord says, the God that your ancestor David worshipped. I have heard your prayer and I have seen your tears. I will make you well again. On the third day from now you will go to the Lord 's temple." 
2Kings20:6 I will let you live for 15 more years. I will rescue you and this city from the power of the king of Assyria. I will keep Jerusalem safe, because I do what is right and I made a promise to my servant David.” ’" 
2Kings20:7 Then Isaiah said, ‘Take some figs to make a medicine.’ So the king's servants did what Isaiah had said. They put the medicine on Hezekiah's boil. He became well again." 
2Kings20:7 Then Isaiah said, ‘Take some figs to make a medicine.’ So the king's servants did what Isaiah had said. They put the medicine on Hezekiah's boil. He became well again." 
2Kings20:8 Hezekiah had asked Isaiah, ‘What will show me that the Lord will make me well again? How will I know that I will go up to the Lord 's temple on the third day from now?’" 
2Kings20:8 Hezekiah had asked Isaiah, ‘What will show me that the Lord will make me well again? How will I know that I will go up to the Lord 's temple on the third day from now?’" 
2Kings20:9 Isaiah answered, ‘The Lord will do a miracle to show you that he will do what he has promised. Do you want the shadow on these stairs to move down ten steps? Or do you want the shadow to go back up ten steps?’" 
2Kings20:9 Isaiah answered, ‘The Lord will do a miracle to show you that he will do what he has promised. Do you want the shadow on these stairs to move down ten steps? Or do you want the shadow to go back up ten steps?’" 
2Kings20:10 Hezekiah said, ‘It is easy to cause the shadow to move down ten steps. So I want it to go back up ten steps.’" 
2Kings20:11 Then Isaiah the prophet asked the Lord to do this. The Lord caused the shadow to go back up ten steps on the stairs that King Ahaz had made. 
2Kings20:11 Then Isaiah the prophet asked the Lord to do this. The Lord caused the shadow to go back up ten steps on the stairs that King Ahaz had made. 
2Kings20:12 At that time, Baladan's son, Merodach-Baladan, was the king of Babylon. Merodach-Baladan sent letters and a gift to Hezekiah. He had heard the news that Hezekiah had been ill." 
2Kings20:13 Hezekiah was happy to meet the officers who came from the king of Babylon. Hezekiah showed them the places where he stored his valuable things. He showed them his silver and gold things, his spices and very valuable olive oil. He also showed them all his weapons. Hezekiah showed them all his valuable things. There was nothing in his palace or in his whole kingdom that he did not show to the king of Babylon's officers." 
2Kings20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet went to King Hezekiah. Isaiah asked the king, ‘What did those men say? Where did they come from?’ Hezekiah replied, ‘They came from Babylon, far away.’" 
2Kings20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet went to King Hezekiah. Isaiah asked the king, ‘What did those men say? Where did they come from?’ Hezekiah replied, ‘They came from Babylon, far away.’" 
2Kings20:15 Isaiah asked, ‘What did they see in your palace?’ Hezekiah said, ‘They saw everything that is in my palace. I showed all my valuable things to them.’" 
2Kings20:15 Isaiah asked, ‘What did they see in your palace?’ Hezekiah said, ‘They saw everything that is in my palace. I showed all my valuable things to them.’" 
2Kings20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, ‘Listen to this message from the Lord:" 
2Kings20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, ‘Listen to this message from the Lord:" 
2Kings20:17 “Understand this! One day, soldiers from Babylon will carry away all your valuable things. Everything that you and your ancestors have stored here until now will go to Babylon. They will leave nothing here." 
2Kings20:18 Some of your own descendants will also go to Babylon. Soldiers from Babylon will take them away from here. Your descendants will become eunuchs in the king of Babylon's palace.” That is what the Lord says. ’ 
2Kings20:19 Hezekiah said to Isaiah, ‘The Lord 's message that you have spoken to me is good.’ But he was thinking, ‘While I am still alive, people will live safely without any trouble.’" 
2Kings20:19 Hezekiah said to Isaiah, ‘The Lord 's message that you have spoken to me is good.’ But he was thinking, ‘While I am still alive, people will live safely without any trouble.’" 
2Kings20:20 The other things that happened while Hezekiah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about the things that Hezekiah did. It includes a report about the pool and the stream that he built to bring water into the city of Jerusalem. 
2Kings20:21 So Hezekiah died and they buried him beside his ancestors. His son Manasseh became king after him. 
2Kings21:1 Manasseh was 12 years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for 55 years. His mother's name was Hephzibah. 
2Kings21:2 Manasseh did things that the Lord said were evil. He did the same terrible sins that the other nations in Canaan had done. Those were the nations that the Lord had chased out so that the Israelites could live there. 
2Kings21:3 Manasseh built again the altars on the hills that his father Hezekiah had destroyed. He built altars for people to worship Baal. He also made an Asherah pole, as King Ahab of Israel had done. He bent down low to worship all the stars in the sky." 
2Kings21:4 He built altars in the Lord 's temple. The Lord had said about his temple, ‘That is my home in Jerusalem where people will worship me.’" 
2Kings21:5 Manasseh built altars to give honour to the stars, in both yards of the Lord 's temple." 
2Kings21:6 He burnt his own son with fire as a sacrifice. He used magic and false gods to find out what would happen in the future. He took advice from magicians and people who talked to the spirits of dead people. He did many things that the Lord said were very evil. This made the Lord very angry. 
2Kings21:7 Manasseh used wood to make an image of the false god, Asherah. He put this idol in the Lord 's temple. The Lord had said this about his temple to King David and to his son King Solomon: ‘My people will worship me in my temple here in Jerusalem. That is the place that I have chosen to be my home for ever. I have chosen it from among all the tribes of Israel." 
2Kings21:8 I will never cause the Israelite people to leave this land that I gave to their ancestors. But they must be careful to obey all my commands and all my Law that my servant Moses gave to them.’ 
2Kings21:9 But the people did not obey the Lord. Manasseh caused them to turn away from God. The Israelites did more evil things than the people who lived in Canaan before them. The Lord had destroyed those nations so that the Israelites could live there. 
2Kings21:10 So the Lord used his servants, the prophets, to say this:" 
2Kings21:11 ‘Manasseh, the king of Judah, has done terrible sins. He has done more evil things than the Amorites did, who lived in Canaan before him. He has caused the people of Judah to do wrong things as they worship his idols." 
2Kings21:12 So the Lord, Israel's God, says this: “I will cause great trouble to happen in Jerusalem and in all the kingdom of Judah. Everyone who hears the news about it will be very surprised." 
2Kings21:13 I will judge Jerusalem and I will punish the people, as I punished Samaria and the family of King Ahab. I will remove the people from Jerusalem, like someone who washes the dirt from both sides of a plate." 
2Kings21:14 I will no longer help those of my own people who still remain. I will put them under the power of their enemies. All their enemies will rob them. They will take all their valuable things for themselves. 
2Kings21:15 My people have done things that I say are evil. They have made me very angry. They have continued to do that since their ancestors came out from Egypt, until today.” ’" 
2Kings21:16 Also, Manasseh murdered many people who had not done anything wrong. Their blood was in all the streets of Jerusalem! He caused the people in Judah to do bad things too. He caused them to do things that the Lord said were evil." 
2Kings21:17 The other things that happened while Manasseh was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about the things that Manasseh did, including all his terrible sins." 
2Kings21:18 Manasseh died and they buried him in the garden of his palace. It is called Uzza's garden. His son Amon became king after him. 
2Kings21:19 Amon was 22 years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for two years. His mother's name was Meshullemeth. She was the daughter of Haruz, who came from Jotbah." 
2Kings21:20 Amon did things that the Lord said were evil, as his father Manasseh had done." 
2Kings21:21 He lived in the same bad way as his father did. He bent down low to worship the useless idols that his father had worshipped. 
2Kings21:22 He turned away from the Lord, the God that his ancestors worshipped. He did not obey the Lord 's teaching." 
2Kings21:23 Amon's officers decided to kill him. They killed him in his palace. 
2Kings21:24 Then the people of Judah punished all Amon's murderers with death. They chose his son Josiah to be king after him. 
2Kings21:25 The other things that Amon did are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’ 
2Kings21:26 People buried him in his grave in Uzza's garden. His son Josiah became king after him. 
2Kings22:1 Josiah was eight years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for 31 years. His mother's name was Jedidah. She was the daughter of Adaiah, who came from Bozkath." 
2Kings22:2 Josiah did things that the Lord said were right. He lived in the good ways of his ancestor, King David. He did not turn away from the Lord 's teaching in any way." 
2Kings22:3 When Josiah had been king for 18 years, he sent Shaphan to the Lord 's temple. Shaphan was the son of Azaliah, and the grandson of Meshullam. He was the king's secretary. Josiah told Shaphan," 
2Kings22:4 ‘Go to meet Hilkiah, the leader of the priests. Ask him to count the money that people have brought as gifts into the Lord 's temple. Those are the offerings that the temple guards have received from people." 
2Kings22:5 The priests must give the money to the men who have authority over the work on the Lord 's temple. Those leaders must pay the men who are doing the repairs. 
2Kings22:6 Those workers are the carpenters, the builders and the men who work with stones. The leaders of the work must also buy wood. And they must buy stones that are ready to use. They need those things to repair the temple." 
2Kings22:7 The leaders of the work are honest men. So they do not need to give a report on how they use the money.’ 
2Kings22:8 Hilkiah, the leader of the priests, told Shaphan, the king's secretary, ‘I have found the Book of the Law in the Lord 's temple.’ He gave the book to Shaphan and Shaphan read it." 
2Kings22:9 Then Shaphan went to the king. He said to him, ‘Your officers have paid out all the money that was in the Lord 's temple. They have given it to the men who are working on the temple repairs and to their leaders.’" 
2Kings22:10 Then Shaphan told the king, ‘Hilkiah the priest has given me a book.’ Shaphan started to read the book while the king listened." 
2Kings22:11 When the king heard the words from the Book of the Law, he was very upset. He tore his clothes." 
2Kings22:12 He gave a command to Hilkiah the priest, Shaphan's son Ahikam, Micaiah's son Acbor, Shaphan the secretary and Asaiah the king's servant." 
2Kings22:13 He told them, ‘Go to the temple. Ask the Lord about the message in this book that Hilkiah has found. I need to know what I should do, as well as all the people of Judah. The Lord has become very angry with us because our ancestors have not obeyed the words in this book. They have not done the things that it tells us we should do.’" 
2Kings22:14 So Hilkiah, Ahikam, Acbor, Shaphan and Asaiah went to speak to Huldah. Huldah was a prophetess who lived in the north part of Jerusalem. She was the wife of Shallum, the son of Tikvah. Tikvah was the son of Harhas, who took care of the king's clothes. The king's men told Huldah why they had come to meet her." 
2Kings22:15 She said to them, ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says, “Tell this to the man who sent you here to me:" 
2Kings22:16 This is what the Lord says. I will bring great trouble to this place and the people who live here. The message of the book that the king of Judah has read tells about what will happen. 
2Kings22:17 I will send this trouble because they have turned away from me. They have offered sacrifices to other gods. I am very angry with them because of all the idols that they have made for themselves. My anger is like a fire that is burning and nobody can stop it!” 
2Kings22:18 The king of Judah sent you here to ask for the Lord 's answer. Say to the king, “The Lord, Israel's God, says this about the message that you have heard:" 
2Kings22:19 When you heard the message that I had spoken, you were very upset. You made yourself humble to respect me. You tore your clothes and you wept. You did that when you heard how I would punish this place and the people who live here. I said that I would destroy this place so that people would use its name as a curse. Because you became so upset, I have heard your prayer." 
2Kings22:20 So I will let you die in peace and people will bury you beside your ancestors. You yourself will never see the great trouble that I will bring to this place.” That is what the Lord says.’ The men took Huldah's answer back to the king. 
2Kings23:1 King Josiah told all the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem to come and meet with him. 
2Kings23:2 He went up to the Lord 's temple. All the people who lived in Jerusalem and in the rest of Judah went with him. They included the priests, the prophets, young people and old people. Everyone went to the temple. They all listened while the king read to them all the words in the Book of God's Covenant. That was the book that Hilkiah had found in the Lord 's temple." 
2Kings23:3 Then the king stood in his place beside the pillar in the temple. He promised the Lord that he would obey the covenant. He agreed to serve the Lord faithfully and to obey his commands, laws and rules. Josiah agreed to obey what was written in the Book of God's Covenant. All the people also promised to obey the covenant." 
2Kings23:4 Then the king gave a command to Hilkiah, the leader of the priests, and to the other priests and the temple guards. He told them to bring out from the Lord 's temple everything that people used there to worship false gods. People used those things to worship Baal, Asherah and all the stars in the sky. King Josiah burned those things outside Jerusalem, in the fields of the Kidron Valley. Then he took all the ashes to Bethel." 
2Kings23:5 He removed the priests who served false gods. The kings of Judah had chosen those priests to make offerings at the altars on the hills. They were on the hills in Judah's cities and all around Jerusalem. These priests offered sacrifices to Baal, to the sun, to the moon and to all the stars in the sky." 
2Kings23:6 He also removed the Asherah pole from the Lord 's temple. He took it outside Jerusalem, to the Kidron Valley. He burned it there. He made its ashes into dust. He threw the dust over the graves of ordinary people." 
2Kings23:7 King Josiah also destroyed the rooms in the Lord 's temple where the male prostitutes lived. Women also made clothes there for the idol of Asherah. 
2Kings23:8 He brought from the towns of Judah all the priests who served false gods. He destroyed the altars on the hills where those priests offered sacrifices. He did that everywhere in Judah, from Geba to Beersheba. He destroyed the altar that was on the left side of one of Jerusalem city's gates. It was called the Gate of Joshua. Joshua was an officer who had authority over the city." 
2Kings23:8 He brought from the towns of Judah all the priests who served false gods. He destroyed the altars on the hills where those priests offered sacrifices. He did that everywhere in Judah, from Geba to Beersheba. He destroyed the altar that was on the left side of one of Jerusalem city's gates. It was called the Gate of Joshua. Joshua was an officer who had authority over the city." 
2Kings23:9 The priests who served at those altars did not have authority to serve at the altar in the Lord 's temple in Jerusalem. But they could eat the same flat bread that the other priests ate. 
2Kings23:10 King Josiah destroyed the place called Topheth, which was in Ben Hinnom Valley. After that, nobody could burn his son or his daughter there in the fire as a sacrifice to Molech." 
2Kings23:11 He removed the images of horses that the kings of Judah had put beside the entrance to the Lord 's temple. He also burned the chariots that were there. The kings had put the horses and chariots there to give honour to the sun god. They were in the temple yard near the room of Nathan Melech, a palace officer." 
2Kings23:12 King Josiah knocked down the altars that were on the roof of the palace. The kings of Judah had built the altars there, above the high room of King Ahaz. He also knocked down the altars that King Manasseh had built in the two yards of the Lord 's temple. Josiah broke the altars into small pieces. He threw the bits into the Kidron Valley." 
2Kings23:13 King Josiah also destroyed the altars that were on the hills east of Jerusalem. Those altars were on the south side of Mount Trouble. King Solomon had built them to worship these false gods: Ashtoreth, a wicked female god that the people in Sidon worshipped. Chemosh, a wicked god that the people in Moab worshipped. Molech, the evil god that the people in Ammon worshipped." 
2Kings23:14 Josiah broke the stone pillars that people worshipped into small pieces. He cut down the Asherah poles. He covered the ground where they had been with human bones. 
2Kings23:15 Josiah also destroyed the altar at Bethel. It was an altar for false gods that Nebat's son, King Jeroboam had made. King Jeroboam had caused the people of Israel to do bad things. Josiah completely destroyed that altar. He broke its stones into small pieces so that only dust remained. He also burned the Asherah pole." 
2Kings23:16 Then Josiah looked around and he saw graves on the hill. He sent someone to bring the bones from them. He burned them on the altar, so that people could not use it again. The Lord had said that this would happen when King Jeroboam was standing beside the altar. A man of God had spoken God's message to Jeroboam during a festival. Josiah looked up and he saw the grave of the man of God who had spoken God's message." 
2Kings23:17 He asked, ‘Whose grave stone is that?’ The men from Bethel city said to him, ‘It is the grave of the man of God who came from Judah. You have now done to this altar at Bethel the things that he said would happen.’" 
2Kings23:18 King Josiah said, ‘Do not do anything to his grave. Do not remove his bones.’ So they did not do anything with the bones of the man of God. They also left the bones of the old prophet who had come from Samaria." 
2Kings23:19 King Josiah removed the altars on the hills in all the towns of Samaria. The kings of Israel had built those altars and that had made the Lord angry. Josiah destroyed all of them, in the same way that he destroyed the altar at Bethel." 
2Kings23:20 He punished with death all the priests who served false gods at those altars. He killed them on their own altars. He burned human bones on all the altars. After he had done that, he went back to Jerusalem." 
2Kings23:21 Then the king commanded all the people, ‘The Book of God's Covenant teaches about the Passover festival. Now you must eat that Passover meal to give honour to the Lord your God.’" 
2Kings23:22 Since the time when the judges ruled Israel, the Israelites had not had a Passover festival like that. They had never had it during the time when kings ruled Judah and Israel." 
2Kings23:23 But in the 18th year that Josiah ruled Judah as king, the people once again had a Passover festival to give honour to the Lord." 
2Kings23:24 Josiah did other things to obey the rules that were written in the Book of God's Law. That was the book that Hilkiah the priest had found in the Lord 's temple. Josiah removed the people who spoke to the spirits of dead people and the other magicians. He destroyed the images that people worshipped in their homes. He destroyed all the other idols that people had started to worship in Jerusalem and in all Judah. 
2Kings23:25 Josiah turned to the Lord and he served the Lord faithfully with all his strength. He obeyed all the Law of Moses. No other king was like Josiah, either before him or after him." 
2Kings23:26 But the Lord continued to be angry with the people of Judah. The wicked things that King Manasseh did had made him very angry. 
2Kings23:27 So the Lord said, ‘I will also send Judah away from me, as I sent Israel away. I will refuse to stay in Jerusalem and in my temple. I chose the city to be my home and the place where people would worship me. But now I will leave there. ’" 
2Kings23:28 The other things that happened while Josiah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about the things that Josiah did. 
2Kings23:29 While Josiah was king, Pharaoh Necho, the king of Egypt, took his army up to the Euphrates River. He went there to help the king of Assyria. King Josiah took his army to fight against Pharaoh Necho. But Necho killed Josiah in a battle at Megiddo." 
2Kings23:30 Josiah's servants put his dead body in a chariot. They took it from Megiddo to Jerusalem. They buried him in his own grave. Then the people of Judah poured olive oil on the head of Josiah's son Jehoahaz. So he became king after his father. 
2Kings23:31 Jehoahaz was 23 years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for three months. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah, who came from Libnah." 
2Kings23:31 Jehoahaz was 23 years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for three months. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah, who came from Libnah." 
2Kings23:32 Jehoahaz did things that the Lord said were evil. 
2Kings23:33 Pharaoh Necho kept him in a prison at Riblah, so that Jehoahaz could not rule in Jerusalem. Riblah is in the Hamath region. Necho made Judah pay tax to him. It was 3,400 kilograms of silver and 34 kilograms of gold." 
2Kings23:34 Pharaoh Necho made Josiah's son Eliakim become the new king of Judah. Necho changed Eliakim's name to Jehoiakim. Then he took Jehoahaz away to Egypt. Later, Jehoahaz died in Egypt." 
2Kings23:35 King Jehoiakim paid Pharaoh Necho all the silver and gold that he asked for. But King Jehoiakim had to make the people of Judah pay taxes so that he could pay Pharaoh Necho. Each person in Judah had to pay what was right, if they were rich or if they were poor." 
2Kings23:36 Jehoiakim was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled for 11 years as king in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zebidah. She was the daughter of Pedaiah, who came from Rumah." 
2Kings23:37 Jehoiakim did things that the Lord said were evil, as his ancestors had done." 
2Kings24:1 While Jehoiakim was king, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon attacked Judah. Jehoiakim was under Nebuchadnezzar's authority for three years. But then Jehoiakim turned against Nebuchadnezzar." 
2Kings24:2 The Lord sent groups of soldiers to attack towns in Judah. The soldiers came from Babylon, Syria, Moab and Ammon. The Lord sent them to destroy Judah. He had already sent his servants, the prophets, to warn the people of Judah about this." 
2Kings24:3 The Lord had said that these things must happen. He had decided to send Judah away from himself because of the sins that King Manasseh had done. 
2Kings24:4 Manasseh had murdered people who had not done anything wrong. Their blood was in the streets of Jerusalem. The Lord would not agree to forgive Manasseh for his sins. 
2Kings24:5 The other things that happened while Jehoiakim was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Judah's kings’. It tells about the things that Jehoiakim did. 
2Kings24:6 Jehoiakim died and they buried him beside his ancestors. His son Jehoiachin became king after him. 
2Kings24:7 The king of Egypt did not take his army out of his own country again. That was because the king of Babylon had taken a lot of Egypt's land for himself. He had taken all the land between the Stream of Egypt and the Euphrates River. Before that, the king of Egypt had authority over that land." 
2Kings24:8 Jehoiachin was 18 years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for three months. His mother's name was Nehushta. She was the daughter of Elnathan, who came from Jerusalem." 
2Kings24:9 Jehoiachin did things that the Lord said were evil, as his father had done." 
2Kings24:10 King Nebuchadnezzar's officers took their army to attack Jerusalem. They made their camp all around the city. 
2Kings24:11 Then King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon came up to Jerusalem himself while his officers were there. 
2Kings24:12 Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, went out of the city to put himself under King Nebuchadnezzar's authority. He went with his mother, his servants, his leaders and his palace officers. In the eighth year that King Nebuchadnezzar ruled as king, he made Jehoiachin his prisoner." 
2Kings24:13 King Nebuchadnezzar took all the valuable things from the Lord 's temple and from the king's palace. He cut away all the gold things that King Solomon had made for the Lord 's temple. The Lord had already warned that this would happen. 
2Kings24:14 Nebuchadnezzar took away as his prisoners all the people who lived in Jerusalem. There were 10,000 people. They included all the officers and all the soldiers. He also took away the people who had special skills to work with wood and metal. The only people who remained in Judah were the very poor people." 
2Kings24:15 Nebuchadnezzar took Jehoiachin away from Jerusalem as his prisoner to Babylon. He also took the king's mother, his wives, his officers and the important leaders of Judah." 
2Kings24:16 The king of Babylon also took away to Babylon all the soldiers of Judah's army. There were 7,000 soldiers. They included the best fighters. He also took 1,000 workers who had special skills to make things with wood and metal." 
2Kings24:17 Nebuchadnezzar chose Jehoiachin's uncle, Mattaniah, to be king instead of Jehoiachin. Nebuchadnezzar changed Mattaniah's name to Zedekiah." 
2Kings24:18 Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah, who came from Libnah." 
2Kings24:18 Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah, who came from Libnah." 
2Kings24:19 Zedekiah did things that the Lord said were evil, as Jehoiakim had done." 
2Kings24:20 All this trouble happened to Jerusalem and to Judah because the Lord was very angry with them. Finally, the Lord sent them away from himself. This is what happened when King Zedekiah turned against the king of Babylon." 
2Kings25:1 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, marched with all his army to attack Jerusalem. He arrived on the 10th day of the 10th month, in the 9th year when Zedekiah had ruled Judah. His soldiers made their camp all around the city. They built heaps of earth all around Jerusalem's walls." 
2Kings25:2 Babylon's army stayed around the city until the 11th year that Zedekiah had been king. 
2Kings25:3 By the 9th day of the 4th month, there was a very bad famine in the city. There was no food for the people to eat." 
2Kings25:4 Then Babylon's army broke down Jerusalem's wall so that they could go into the city. Their soldiers were all around the city. So the king of Judah and all his army tried to escape in the night. They went through the gate that was near the king's garden. The path went between the two walls of the city. The king and his soldiers ran towards the Jordan Valley. 
2Kings25:5 But the soldiers of Babylon's army chased after the king. They caught him on the flat land near Jericho. All King Zedekiah's soldiers ran away from him in many directions. 
2Kings25:6 Babylon's soldiers took hold of King Zedekiah. They took him to King Nebuchadnezzar at Riblah. Nebuchadnezzar decided how to punish Zedekiah. 
2Kings25:7 They killed all Zedekiah's sons as their punishment, while Zedekiah watched. Then they cut out Zedekiah's eyes to make him blind. They tied him with chains and they took him to Babylon." 
2Kings25:8 King Nebuchadnezzar had an officer whose name was Nebuzaradan. He was the captain of the king's royal guards. Nebuzaradan came to Jerusalem when Nebuchadnezzar had ruled Babylon for 19 years. It was on the 7th day of the 5th month. 
2Kings25:9 Nebuzaradan destroyed the Lord 's temple, the king's palace and all the other houses in Jerusalem. He burned them all with fire, so that he destroyed every important building in the city." 
2Kings25:10 Then Nebuzaradan commanded his whole army to knock down the walls around Jerusalem. 
2Kings25:11 Captain Nebuzaradan sent away as prisoners all the people who remained in Jerusalem. He also sent away those people who had agreed to serve the king of Babylon and the workers who were still there. 
2Kings25:12 But Nebuzaradan let some of the poorest people stay there. He gave them vineyards and fields to work in. 
2Kings25:13 The soldiers from Babylon broke the two bronze pillars that were in the Lord 's temple. They also broke the carts which carried the buckets for water and the large bath called ‘the Sea’. They carried all the bronze pieces away to Babylon. 
2Kings25:14 They also took away the pots, the spades, the small tools for the lamps, and the dishes. They took all the bronze tools that the priests used in the temple." 
2Kings25:15 Nebuzaradan also took away the baskets that carried hot coals and the bowls for water. He took away everything that was made from gold or silver. 
2Kings25:16 The bronze from the things that King Solomon had made for the Lord 's temple was very heavy. They included the two bronze pillars, the large bath called ‘the Sea’ and the carts which carried the buckets for water. The bronze from all these things was more than they could weigh." 
2Kings25:17 Each pillar was 8 metres high. The bronze piece on the top of one pillar was more than 1 metre high. It had rows of chains with images of pomegranates made from bronze all around it. The other pillar, with its rows of chains and pomegranates, was the same." 
2Kings25:18 Captain Nebuzaradan took hold of these people: Seraiah, the leader of the priests, Zephaniah, the next most important priest, and the three temple guards." 
2Kings25:18 Captain Nebuzaradan took hold of these people: Seraiah, the leader of the priests, Zephaniah, the next most important priest, and the three temple guards." 
2Kings25:19 He also took hold of these people who remained in Jerusalem: The palace officer with authority over the soldiers, five of the king's advisors, the army secretary who took men to join the army, and 60 other people of Judah who were in the city." 
2Kings25:20 Nebuzaradan took hold of all those people. He brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah, in the Hamath region." 
2Kings25:21 There, at Riblah, the king of Babylon commanded his soldiers to punish them all with death. That was how Judah's people went into exile, away from their own land." 
2Kings25:22 King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon chose Gedaliah, to have authority to rule the people who were still in Judah. Gedaliah was the son of Ahikam and the grandson of Shaphan." 
2Kings25:23 The officers of Judah's army and their men heard news that the king of Babylon had chosen Gedaliah to be the ruler of Judah. So they went to meet Gedaliah at Mizpah. The army officers were: Nethaniah's son Ishmael, Kareah's son Johanan, Seraiah, the son of Tanhumeth, who came from Netophah, and Jaazaniah, whose father came from Maakah." 
2Kings25:24 Gedaliah promised that he would not hurt these officers or the men who were with them. He said to them, ‘Do not be afraid to serve the soldiers from Babylon. Make your homes here in our land, but agree to serve the king of Babylon. If you do that, you will be successful.’" 
2Kings25:25 But in the seventh month of that year, Ishmael went to Mizpah with ten of his men. Ishmael was the son of Nethaniah and the grandson of Elishama, who belonged to the king's family. They murdered Gedaliah, and the other men who were with him in Mizpah. Some of those men were from Judah and some of them were from Babylon." 
2Kings25:26 When that happened, all the people of Judah ran away to Egypt. They included the army officers, as well as ordinary people and important people. They were all afraid that the people of Babylon would come to punish them." 
2Kings25:27 37 years after King Jehoiachin of Judah had gone as a prisoner to Babylon, Evil-Merodach became the king of Babylon. On the 27th day of the 12th month, he took Jehoiachin out from his prison so that he became free." 
2Kings25:28 King Evil-Merodach spoke in a kind way to Jehoiachin. He gave him more honour than the other kings who were with him in Babylon. 
2Kings25:29 Jehoiachin no longer had to wear the clothes of a prisoner. Every day until he died, he ate a meal at the king's table in Babylon." 
2Kings25:30 The king of Babylon gave Jehoiachin everything that he needed each day for the rest of his life. 
1Chronicles1:1 Adam, Seth, Enosh," 
1Chronicles1:2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared," 
1Chronicles1:3 Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, Noah." 
1Chronicles1:4 Noah's sons were Shem, Ham and Japheth." 
1Chronicles1:5 Japheth's sons were: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech and Tiras." 
1Chronicles1:6 Gomer's sons were: Ashkenaz, Riphath and Togarmah." 
1Chronicles1:7 Javan's sons were: Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittim people and the Rodanim people." 
1Chronicles1:8 Ham's sons were: Cush, Mizraim, Put and Canaan." 
1Chronicles1:9 Cush's sons were: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah and Sabteca. Raamah's sons were: Sheba and Dedan." 
1Chronicles1:10 Cush was also the father of Nimrod. Nimrod became the first brave soldier in the world. 
1Chronicles1:11 Mizraim was the ancestor of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites," 
1Chronicles1:12 Pathrusites, Kasluhites and Caphtorites. The Philistines were descendants of the Kasluhites." 
1Chronicles1:13 Canaan's firstborn son was Sidon. Canaan was also the ancestor of the Hittites," 
1Chronicles1:14 Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites," 
1Chronicles1:15 Hivites, Arkites, Sinites," 
1Chronicles1:16 Arvadites, Zemarites and Hamathites." 
1Chronicles1:17 Shem's sons were: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud and Aram. Aram's sons were: Uz, Hul, Gether and Meshech." 
1Chronicles1:18 Arpachshad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah was the father of Eber." 
1Chronicles1:19 Eber had two sons. The name of one son was Peleg. When he was alive, people began to live in different places on the earth. That is why his name was Peleg. Peleg's brother's name was Joktan." 
1Chronicles1:20 Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah," 
1Chronicles1:21 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah," 
1Chronicles1:22 Ebal, Abimael, Sheba," 
1Chronicles1:23 Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All those men were Joktan's sons." 
1Chronicles1:23 Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All those men were Joktan's sons." 
1Chronicles1:24 Shem's descendants included Arpachshad, Shelah," 
1Chronicles1:25 Eber, Peleg, Reu," 
1Chronicles1:26 Serug, Nahor, Terah" 
1Chronicles1:27 and then Abram. Abram's name became Abraham. 
1Chronicles1:28 Abraham's sons were: Isaac and Ishmael. 
1Chronicles1:29 These were Ishmael's descendants: Ishmael's firstborn son was Nebaioth. His other sons were: Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam," 
1Chronicles1:30 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema," 
1Chronicles1:31 Jetur, Naphish and Kedemah. Those men were Ishmael's sons." 
1Chronicles1:32 Abraham's slave wife Keturah gave birth to these sons: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak and Shuah. Jokshan's sons were: Sheba and Dedan." 
1Chronicles1:33 Midian's sons were: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida and Eldaah. All those men were descendants of Keturah." 
1Chronicles1:34 Abraham was the father of Isaac. Isaac's sons were: Esau and Israel. 
1Chronicles1:35 Esau's sons were: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam and Korah." 
1Chronicles1:36 Eliphaz's sons were: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenaz and Amalek who was born to Timna." 
1Chronicles1:37 Reuel's sons were: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah." 
1Chronicles1:38 Seir's sons were: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer and Dishan." 
1Chronicles1:39 Lotan's sons were: Hori and Homam. Lotan's sister was Timna. 
1Chronicles1:40 Shobal's sons were: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam. Zibeon's sons were: Aiah and Anah." 
1Chronicles1:41 Anah's son was Dishon. Dishon's sons were: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran and Keran." 
1Chronicles1:42 Ezer's sons were: Bilhan, Zaavan and Jaakan. Dishan's sons were: Uz and Aran." 
1Chronicles1:43 These kings ruled in Edom before any kings ruled over Israel: Bela son of Beor. The name of his city was Dinhabah. 
1Chronicles1:44 When Bela died, Zerah's son Jobab ruled in Edom. He was from Bozrah." 
1Chronicles1:44 When Bela died, Zerah's son Jobab ruled in Edom. He was from Bozrah." 
1Chronicles1:45 When Jobab died, Husham then ruled. He was from the land of the Temanites." 
1Chronicles1:45 When Jobab died, Husham then ruled. He was from the land of the Temanites." 
1Chronicles1:46 When Husham died, Bedad's son Hadad then ruled. Bedad had won the war against the Midianites in the region of Moab. The name of his city was Avith." 
1Chronicles1:47 When Hadad died, Samlah then ruled. He was from Masrekah." 
1Chronicles1:48 When Samlah died, Shaul then ruled. He was from Rehoboth on the river." 
1Chronicles1:49 When Shaul died, Akbor's son Baal-Hanan then ruled." 
1Chronicles1:50 When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad then ruled. The name of his city was Pau. Hadad's wife was Mehetabel. She was Matred's daughter. Matred was the daughter of Me-Zahab." 
1Chronicles1:51 King Hadad also died. The leaders of the clans of Edom were: Timna, Alvah, Jetheth," 
1Chronicles1:52 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon," 
1Chronicles1:53 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar," 
1Chronicles1:54 Magdiel and Iram. Those men were the leaders of Edom. 
1Chronicles2:1 The sons of Israel were: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun," 
1Chronicles2:2 Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad and Asher." 
1Chronicles2:3 Judah's sons were: Er, Onan and Shelah. Their mother was Bath-shua, who was a woman from Canaan. Judah's firstborn son Er did things that the Lord saw were evil. So the Lord killed him." 
1Chronicles2:4 Tamar was Er's widow. She gave birth to two sons for Judah, Perez and Zerah. Judah was the father of five sons." 
1Chronicles2:5 Perez's sons were: Hezron and Hamul. 
1Chronicles2:6 Zerah's five sons were: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol and Dara." 
1Chronicles2:7 Carmi's son was Achar. Achar caused a lot of trouble for Israel. He took for himself things that belonged to God. 
1Chronicles2:8 Ethan's son was Azariah. 
1Chronicles2:9 Hezron's sons were: Jerahmeel, Ram and Caleb." 
1Chronicles2:10 Ram became the father of Amminadab. Amminadab became the father of Nahshon. Nahshon was the leader of Judah's tribe. 
1Chronicles2:11 Nahshon became the father of Salma. Salma became the father of Boaz. 
1Chronicles2:12 Boaz became the father of Obed. Obed became the father of Jesse. 
1Chronicles2:13 Jesse's firstborn son was Eliab. His second son was Abinadab, and his third son was Shimea." 
1Chronicles2:14 His fourth son was Nethanel and his fifth son was Raddai. 
1Chronicles2:15 His sixth son was Ozem and his seventh son was David. 
1Chronicles2:16 Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Zeruiah's three sons were Abishai, Joab and Asahel." 
1Chronicles2:17 Abigail gave birth to Amasa. Amasa's father was Jether, a descendant of Ishmael." 
1Chronicles2:18 Hezron's son Caleb married Azubah, who was also called Jerioth. Her sons were Jesher, Shobab and Ardon." 
1Chronicles2:19 When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath. She gave birth to a son called Hur." 
1Chronicles2:20 Hur became the father of Uri. Uri became the father of Bezalel. 
1Chronicles2:21 After some time, when Hezron was 60 years old, he married Makir's daughter. She was Gilead's sister. Hezron had sex with her and she gave birth to a son called Segub." 
1Chronicles2:22 Segub became the father of Jair. Jair ruled 23 towns in the region of Gilead. 
1Chronicles2:23 But later Geshur and Aram attacked Jair's towns and took them for themselves. They also took Kenath and the 60 small towns around it. All those people were descendants of Gilead's father, Makir." 
1Chronicles2:24 After Hezron died, Caleb married his father's widow, Ephrathah. She gave birth to a son for him. His name was Ashhur, and he became the father of Tekoa." 
1Chronicles2:25 Hezron's firstborn son was Jerahmeel. Jerahmeel's sons were: Ram (his firstborn son), Bunah, Oren, Ozem and Ahijah." 
1Chronicles2:26 Jerahmeel had another wife, called Atarah. She gave birth to Onam." 
1Chronicles2:27 The sons of Jerahmeel's firstborn son, Ram, were: Maaz, Jamin and Eker." 
1Chronicles2:28 Onam's sons were: Shammai and Jada. Shammai's sons were: Nadab and Abishur. 
1Chronicles2:29 Abishur's wife was called Abihail. She gave birth to Ahban and Molid. 
1Chronicles2:30 Nadab's sons were: Seled and Appaim. When Seled died, he had no sons." 
1Chronicles2:31 Appaim's son was Ishi. Ishi's son was Sheshan. Sheshan's son was Ahlai. 
1Chronicles2:32 The sons of Jada, Shammai's brother, were: Jether and Jonathan. When Jether died, he had no sons." 
1Chronicles2:33 Jonathan's sons were: Peleth and Zaza. All those men were Jerahmeel's descendants. 
1Chronicles2:34 Sheshan did not have any sons but he did have daughters. He had a servant from Egypt called Jarha. 
1Chronicles2:35 Sheshan gave his daughter to his servant Jarha, to be his wife. She gave birth to a son for him, called Attai." 
1Chronicles2:36 Attai became the father of Nathan. Nathan became the father of Zabad. 
1Chronicles2:37 Zabad became the father of Ephlal. Ephlal became the father of Obed. 
1Chronicles2:38 Obed became the father of Jehu. Jehu became the father of Azariah. 
1Chronicles2:39 Azariah became the father of Helez. Helez became the father of Eleasah. 
1Chronicles2:40 Eleasah became the father of Sismai. Sismai became the father of Shallum. 
1Chronicles2:41 Shallum became the father of Jekamiah. Jekamiah became the father of Elishama. 
1Chronicles2:42 The sons of Jerahmeel's brother, Caleb, were: Mesha, his firstborn son. Mesha became the father of Ziph. His son Mareshah became the father of Hebron." 
1Chronicles2:43 Hebron's sons were: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem and Shema." 
1Chronicles2:44 Shema became the father of Raham, who became the father of Jorkeam. Rekem became the father of Shammai." 
1Chronicles2:45 Shammai's son was Maon, who became the father of Beth-Zur." 
1Chronicles2:46 Caleb had a slave wife called Ephah. She gave birth to Haran, Moza and Gazez. Haran became the father of Gazez." 
1Chronicles2:47 Jahdai's sons were: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah and Shaaph." 
1Chronicles2:48 Caleb's other slave wife Maakah gave birth to Sheber, Tirhanah," 
1Chronicles2:49 Shaaph and Sheva. Shaaph became the father of Madmannah. Sheva became the father of Makbenah and Gibea. Caleb had a daughter called Acsah. 
1Chronicles2:50 Those people were Caleb's descendants. The sons of Ephrath's firstborn son, Hur, were: Shobal, Salma and Hareph. Shobal became the ancestor of Kiriath-Jearim. Salma became the ancestor of Bethlehem. Hareph became the ancestor of Beth-Gader." 
1Chronicles2:51  
1Chronicles2:52 The sons of Shobal, the ancestor of Kiriath-Jearim, were: Haroeh, half the Manahath people" 
1Chronicles2:53 and the clans of Kiriath-Jearim: the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites and Mishraites. The Zorathites and Eshtaolites were descendants of these clans." 
1Chronicles2:54 Salma's descendants were: the people of Bethlehem, the people of Netophah, the clan of Atroth-Beth-Joab, half the Manahath people and the Zorites." 
1Chronicles2:55 His descendants also included the people who lived in Jabez. They were people who could write down important things. Their clans were called the Tirathites, Shimeathites and Sucathites. These clans were descendants of Hammath, the Kenite man. He was also the ancestor of the Rekabites." 
1Chronicles3:1 These sons of David were born in Hebron: The firstborn son was Amnon. His mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel. The second son was Daniel. His mother was Abigail from Carmel. 
1Chronicles3:1 These sons of David were born in Hebron: The firstborn son was Amnon. His mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel. The second son was Daniel. His mother was Abigail from Carmel. 
1Chronicles3:2 The third son was Absalom. His mother was Maakah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur. The fourth son was Adonijah. His mother was Haggith." 
1Chronicles3:3 The fifth son was Shephatiah. His mother was Abital. The sixth son was Ithream. His mother was David's wife, Eglah." 
1Chronicles3:4 Those six sons of David were all born in Hebron. David ruled in Hebron for seven years and six months. Then he ruled in Jerusalem for 33 years. 
1Chronicles3:5 These are the names of David's sons who were born in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan and Solomon. The mother of these four sons was Ammiel's daughter, Bathsheba." 
1Chronicles3:6 David had nine other sons: Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet," 
1Chronicles3:7 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia," 
1Chronicles3:8 Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet." 
1Chronicles3:9 Those were all the sons of David's wives. Tamar was their sister. He also had slave wives who gave birth to sons for him. 
1Chronicles3:10 Solomon's son was Rehoboam. Rehoboam's son was Abijah. Abijah's son was Asa. Asa's son was Jehoshaphat. 
1Chronicles3:11 Jehoshaphat's son was Jehoram. Jehoram's son was Ahaziah. Ahaziah's son was Joash. 
1Chronicles3:12 Joash's son was Amaziah. Amaziah's son was Azariah. Azariah's son was Jotham. 
1Chronicles3:13 Jotham's son was Ahaz. Ahaz's son was Hezekiah. Hezekiah's son was Manasseh. 
1Chronicles3:14 Manasseh's son was Amon. Amon's son was Josiah. 
1Chronicles3:15 Josiah's sons: His firstborn son was Johanan. His second son was Jehoiakim. His third son was Zedekiah. His fourth son was Shallum. 
1Chronicles3:16 Jehoiakim's son was Jehoiachin. Jehoiachin's son was Zedekiah. 
1Chronicles3:17 Jehoiachin's enemies took him away as their prisoner. His sons were: Shealtiel," 
1Chronicles3:18 Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama and Nedabiah." 
1Chronicles3:19 Pedaiah's sons were: Zerubbabel and Shimei. Zerubbabel's sons were: Meshullam and Hananiah. Their sister was Shelomith. 
1Chronicles3:20 Zerubbabel also had five other sons: Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah and Jushab-Hesed." 
1Chronicles3:21 The descendants of Hananiah were: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah. Jeshaiah's son was Rephaiah. Rephaiah's son was Arnan. Arnan's son was Obadiah. Obadiah's son was Shecaniah. 
1Chronicles3:21 The descendants of Hananiah were: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah. Jeshaiah's son was Rephaiah. Rephaiah's son was Arnan. Arnan's son was Obadiah. Obadiah's son was Shecaniah. 
1Chronicles3:22 The six descendants of Shecaniah were Shemaiah and his sons: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah and Shaphat." 
1Chronicles3:23 Neariah's three sons were: Elioenai, Hizkiah and Azrikam." 
1Chronicles3:24 Elioenai seven sons were: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah and Anani." 
1Chronicles4:1 Judah's descendants were: Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur and Shobal." 
1Chronicles4:2 Shobal's son Reaiah became the father of Jahath. Jahath became the father of Ahumai and Lahad. Those were the ancestors of the Zorathite clans. 
1Chronicles4:3 Caleb's wife Ephrathah gave birth to their firstborn son, Hur. Hur was the ancestor of the people of Bethlehem. His three sons were Etam, Penuel and Ezer. Etam's sons were: Jezreel, Ishma and Idbash. Their sister was Hazzelelponi. Penuel became the father of Gedor. Ezer became the father of Hushah." 
1Chronicles4:4  
1Chronicles4:5 Tekoa's father Ashhur had two wives called Helah and Naarah. 
1Chronicles4:6 The sons of Ashhur and his wife Naarah were: Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni and Haahashtari." 
1Chronicles4:7 The sons of Ashhur and his wife Helah were: Zereth, Izhar, Ethnan" 
1Chronicles4:8 and Koz. Koz became the father of Anub, Hazzobebah and the clans of Harum's son, Aharhel." 
1Chronicles4:9 Another of Judah's descendants was called Jabez. People respected him more than his brothers. His mother called him Jabez, because she said, ‘I had a lot of pain at his birth.’" 
1Chronicles4:10 Jabez prayed to Israel's God for help. He said, ‘Please bless me very much and give me more land. Please take care of me so that nothing hurts me and I do not have pain.’ God did what Jabez had prayed for." 
1Chronicles4:11 Kelub, Shuhah's brother, became the father of Mehir. Mehir became the father of Eshton." 
1Chronicles4:12 Eshton became the father of Beth-Rapha, Paseah and Tehinnah. Tehinnah became the father of Ir-Nahash. Those people lived at Recah." 
1Chronicles4:13 The sons of Kenaz were: Othniel and Seraiah. Othniel's sons were: Hathath and Meonothai. 
1Chronicles4:14 Meonothai became the father of Ophrah. Seraiah became the father of Joab. Joab was the ancestor of the people who live in Ge-Harashim. Those people had special skills to make things. 
1Chronicles4:15 The sons of Jephunneh's son Caleb were: Iru, Elah and Naam. Elah's son was Kenaz." 
1Chronicles4:16 Jehallelel's sons were: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria and Asarel." 
1Chronicles4:17 Ezrah's sons were: Jether, Mered, Epher and Jalon. Mered married Bithiah. Her father was the king of Egypt. The children of Mered and Bithiah were: Miriam, Shammai and Ishbah. Ishbah became the father of Eshtemoa. Mered had another wife who belonged to Judah's tribe. Her sons were Jered, Heber and Jekuthiel. Jered became the father of Gedor. Heber became the father of Soco. And Jekuthiel became the father of Zanoah." 
1Chronicles4:17 Ezrah's sons were: Jether, Mered, Epher and Jalon. Mered married Bithiah. Her father was the king of Egypt. The children of Mered and Bithiah were: Miriam, Shammai and Ishbah. Ishbah became the father of Eshtemoa. Mered had another wife who belonged to Judah's tribe. Her sons were Jered, Heber and Jekuthiel. Jered became the father of Gedor. Heber became the father of Soco. And Jekuthiel became the father of Zanoah." 
1Chronicles4:18  
1Chronicles4:19 Hodiah's wife was Naham's sister. She gave birth to two sons. One of them became the father of Keilah, the ancestor of the Garmites. The other son became the father of Eshtemoa, the ancestor of the Maakathites." 
1Chronicles4:20 Shimon's sons were: Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-Hanan and Tilon. Ishi's descendants were Zoheth and Ben-Zoheth." 
1Chronicles4:21 These were the sons of Judah's son, Shelah: Er, Laadah, Jokim, Joash, Saraph and Jashubi-Lehem. Er became the father of Lecah. Laadah became the father of Mareshah. Joash and Saraph both married women from Moab and they returned to live in Lehem. Other clans that were descendants of Shelah worked with linen at Beth-Ashbea, and some lived in Cozeba. (These lists are from old history books.)" 
1Chronicles4:22  
1Chronicles4:23 Those people made pots. They lived in Netaim and Gederah. They lived there and they worked for the king. 
1Chronicles4:24 Simeon's descendants were: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah and Shaul." 
1Chronicles4:25 Shaul's son was Shallum. Shallum's son was Mibsam. Mibsam's son was Mishma. 
1Chronicles4:26 Mishma's descendants were his son Hammuel, Hammuel's son Zaccur, and Zaccur's son Shimei." 
1Chronicles4:27 Shimei had 16 sons and six daughters. But his brothers did not have many children. So their clan did not become as large as the people of Judah's tribe. 
1Chronicles4:28 Shimei's descendants lived in these cities and towns: Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar-Shual," 
1Chronicles4:29 Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad," 
1Chronicles4:30 Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag," 
1Chronicles4:31 Beth-Marcaboth, Hazar-Susim, Beth-Biri and Shaaraim. They lived in those places until David became king." 
1Chronicles4:32 They also lived in these five villages: Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Token and Ashan." 
1Chronicles4:33 There were also other villages round the same towns, as far as Baalath town. Those were the places where they lived. They wrote down a list of the names of their ancestors." 
1Chronicles4:34 The leaders of their clans were: Meshobab, Jamlech, Amaziah's son Joshah," 
1Chronicles4:35 Joel, Jehu (son of Joshibiah, who was the son of Seraiah and grandson of Asiel)," 
1Chronicles4:35 Joel, Jehu (son of Joshibiah, who was the son of Seraiah and grandson of Asiel)," 
1Chronicles4:36 Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah" 
1Chronicles4:37 and Ziza. Ziza was the son of Shiphi, who was the son of Allon and grandson of Jedaiah. Jedaiah was the son of Shimri and grandson of Shemaiah." 
1Chronicles4:38 Those men were the leaders of their clans. Their families became very large. 
1Chronicles4:39 They travelled to the east side of the valley to find grass for their sheep to eat. They went as far as Gedor. 
1Chronicles4:40 They found good fields that had plenty of grass. The soil was good and the place was large. There were no troubles in that region. Some descendants of Ham had been living there. 
1Chronicles4:41 When Hezekiah was the king of Judah, those leaders of Simeon's clans attacked the people who lived there. Some of those people were called Meunites. The men of Simeon destroyed their homes and they killed all the people. So even today none of those people still live there. Simeon's people lived there instead, because there was good grass for their sheep." 
1Chronicles4:42 Later, another 500 men of Simeon's tribe went to the hill country of Seir. Their leaders were Ishi's sons: Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles4:43 They killed all the descendants of Amalek who were still alive. They took their land and they still live there now. 
1Chronicles5:1 Reuben was Israel's firstborn son. That is, Reuben was born first. But he had sex with his father's slave wife. So his father took away the benefits that belong to a firstborn son. Instead, Israel gave those benefits to his son Joseph's sons. So Reuben does not have the first place in the list of Israel's sons." 
1Chronicles5:2 Judah became stronger than all his brothers. Israel's ruler came from his tribe. But it was Joseph who received the benefits that belong to the firstborn son. 
1Chronicles5:3 The sons of Reuben, Israel's oldest son, were: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron and Carmi." 
1Chronicles5:4 Joel's descendants were: His son Shemaiah. Shemaiah's son Gog. Gog's son Shimei. 
1Chronicles5:4 Joel's descendants were: His son Shemaiah. Shemaiah's son Gog. Gog's son Shimei. 
1Chronicles5:5 Shimei's son Micah. Micah's son Reaiah. Reaiah's son Baal. 
1Chronicles5:5 Shimei's son Micah. Micah's son Reaiah. Reaiah's son Baal. 
1Chronicles5:6 Baal's son Beerah. Beerah was a leader of Reuben's tribe. Tiglath-Pileser, king of Assyria, took him away to Assyria as his prisoner." 
1Chronicles5:7 The lists of Reuben's descendants include these leaders of their clans: Jeiel was the first, then Zechariah and Bela." 
1Chronicles5:7 The lists of Reuben's descendants include these leaders of their clans: Jeiel was the first, then Zechariah and Bela." 
1Chronicles5:8 Bela was the son of Azaz. Azaz was the son of Shema. Shema was the son of Joel. Reuben's people lived in the region of Aroer, as far north as Nebo and Baal-Meon." 
1Chronicles5:8 Bela was the son of Azaz. Azaz was the son of Shema. Shema was the son of Joel. Reuben's people lived in the region of Aroer, as far north as Nebo and Baal-Meon." 
1Chronicles5:9 Their east border was the desert that goes all the way to the Euphrates River. They had too many animals to feed in the region of Gilead. So they had to live in all those other places too. 
1Chronicles5:10 When Saul was Israel's king, the men of Reuben's tribe attacked the Hagrites. They won the fight. Then they moved into their land to live. That was the whole region that was east of Gilead." 
1Chronicles5:11 Gad's descendants lived in the region of Bashan, near the people of Reuben's tribe. Their land went as far as Salecah town in the east." 
1Chronicles5:12 Joel was the most important leader. Shapham was the second leader. Janai and Shaphat were also leaders in Bashan. 
1Chronicles5:12 Joel was the most important leader. Shapham was the second leader. Janai and Shaphat were also leaders in Bashan. 
1Chronicles5:13 Their relatives in each of their seven clans were: Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia and Eber." 
1Chronicles5:14 They were all descendants of Abihail. Abihail was Huri's son. Huri was Jaroah's son. Jaroah was Gilead's son. Gilead was Michael's son. Michael was Jeshishai's son. Jeshishai was Jahdo's son. Jahdo was the son of Buz. 
1Chronicles5:15 Ahi, son of Abdiel and grandson of Guni, was the leader of their clan." 
1Chronicles5:16 Gad's descendants lived in Gilead, in Bashan, and in the small towns near there. They also lived in the whole land of Sharon where there was grass to feed their animals." 
1Chronicles5:17 The names of Gad's descendants were written down at the time when Jotham was king of Judah and Jeroboam was king of Israel. 
1Chronicles5:18 The tribes of Reuben, Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh had a large army. They had 44,760 brave soldiers who knew how to fight well. Their weapons were shields, swords, and bows and arrows." 
1Chronicles5:19 They attacked the Hagrites and the people in Jetur, Naphish and Nodab." 
1Chronicles5:20 God helped their army to fight against their enemies. He put the Hagrites under their power, as well as the other people who fought with them. The soldiers of Manasseh, Reuben and Gad called out to God for help during the battle. God answered their prayers because they trusted him." 
1Chronicles5:21 They took all their enemies' animals. They included 50,000 camels, 250,000 sheep and 2,000 donkeys. They also caught 100,000 people as their prisoners." 
1Chronicles5:22 They killed many of their enemy's soldiers because God was fighting for them. Reuben, Gad and half of Manasseh's tribe took the land where the Hagrites had lived. They continued to live there until the exile of Judah's people." 
1Chronicles5:23 Half of Manasseh's tribe lived in the region of Bashan, on the east side of the Jordan River. Their borders were Baal-Hermon, Senir and Mount Hermon. They became very many people." 
1Chronicles5:24 These men were the leaders of their clans: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah and Jahdiel. They were brave soldiers and people respected them. They were leaders of their clans." 
1Chronicles5:24 These men were the leaders of their clans: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah and Jahdiel. They were brave soldiers and people respected them. They were leaders of their clans." 
1Chronicles5:25 But they turned away from the God that their ancestors had worshipped. He had chased the other nations out of the land where his people now lived. But now they started to worship the gods of those nations. 
1Chronicles5:26 So the God of Israel caused King Pul of Assyria to attack their land. That king is also called King Tiglath-Pileser. He won the fight against the people of Reuben, Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh. He took them away as his prisoners to Halah, to Habor, to Hara and to the Gozan River. They are still living there, even today." 
1Chronicles6:1 Levi's sons were: Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
1Chronicles6:2 Kohath's sons were: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles6:3 Amram's children were: Aaron, Moses and Miriam. Aaron's sons were: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
1Chronicles6:4 Eleazar became the father of Phinehas. Phinehas became the father of Abishua. 
1Chronicles6:5 Abishua became the father of Bukki. Bukki became the father of Uzzi. 
1Chronicles6:6 Uzzi became the father of Zerahiah. Zerahiah became the father of Meraioth. 
1Chronicles6:7 Meraioth became the father of Amariah. Amariah became the father of Ahitub. 
1Chronicles6:8 Ahitub became the father of Zadok. Zadok became the father of Ahimaaz. 
1Chronicles6:9 Ahimaaz became the father of Azariah. Azariah became the father of Johanan. 
1Chronicles6:10 Johanan became the father of Azariah. Azariah served God as a priest in the temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles6:11 Azariah became the father of Amariah. Amariah became the father of Ahitub. 
1Chronicles6:12 Ahitub became the father of Zadok. Zadok became the father of Shallum. 
1Chronicles6:13 Shallum became the father of Hilkiah. Hilkiah became the father of Azariah. 
1Chronicles6:14 Azariah became the father of Seraiah. Seraiah became the father of Jehozadak. 
1Chronicles6:15 Jehozadak went into exile with the people from Jerusalem and the rest of Judah. The Lord used Nebuchadnezzar to take them away to Babylon. 
1Chronicles6:16 Levi's sons were: Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
1Chronicles6:17 The names of Gershon's sons were Libni and Shimei. 
1Chronicles6:18 Kohath's sons were: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles6:19 Merari's sons were: Mahli and Mushi. These are the ancestors of the clans of the Levites: 
1Chronicles6:20 Gershon's descendants were his son Libni, Libni's son Jahath and Jahath's son Zimmah." 
1Chronicles6:21 Zimmah's son was Joah. Joah's son was Iddo. Iddo's son was Zerah. Zerah's son was Jeatherai. 
1Chronicles6:22 Kohath's descendants were his son Amminadab, Amminadab's son Korah and Korah's son Assir." 
1Chronicles6:23 Assir's son was Elkanah. Elkanah's son was Ebiasaph. Ebiasaph's son was Assir. 
1Chronicles6:24 Assir's son was Tahath. Tahath's son was Uriel. Uriel's son was Uzziah. Uzziah's son was Shaul. 
1Chronicles6:25 Elkanah's other sons were Amasai and Ahimoth. 
1Chronicles6:26 Ahimoth's son was Elkanah. Elkanah's son was Zophai. Zophai's son was Nahath. 
1Chronicles6:27 Nahath's son was Eliab. Eliab's son was Jeroham. Jeroham's son was Elkanah. 
1Chronicles6:28 Samuel's firstborn son was Joel and his second son was Abijah. 
1Chronicles6:28 Samuel's firstborn son was Joel and his second son was Abijah. 
1Chronicles6:29 Merari's descendants were his son Mahli, Mahli's son Libni, Libni's son Shimei and Shimei's son Uzzah." 
1Chronicles6:30 Uzzah's son was Shimea. Shimea's son was Haggiah. Haggiah's son was Asaiah. 
1Chronicles6:31 After David put God's Covenant Box in the Lord 's house, he chose some men to lead the music there." 
1Chronicles6:32 They used music to serve the Lord in his special tent where he met with his people. After King Solomon built the Lord 's temple in Jerusalem, they served the Lord there. They obeyed the rules that told them how to do their work." 
1Chronicles6:33 These are the leaders of the music and their sons: From Kohath's clan: Heman the singer. He was Joel's son. Joel was Samuel's son. 
1Chronicles6:33 These are the leaders of the music and their sons: From Kohath's clan: Heman the singer. He was Joel's son. Joel was Samuel's son. 
1Chronicles6:34 Samuel was Elkanah's son. Elkanah was Jeroham's son. Jeroham was Eliel's son. Eliel was Toah's son. 
1Chronicles6:35 Toah was Zuph's son. Zuph was Elkanah's son. Elkanah was Mahath's son. Mahath was Amasai's son. 
1Chronicles6:36 Amasai was Elkanah's son. Elkanah was Joel's son. Joel was Azariah's son. Azariah was Zephaniah's son. 
1Chronicles6:36 Amasai was Elkanah's son. Elkanah was Joel's son. Joel was Azariah's son. Azariah was Zephaniah's son. 
1Chronicles6:36 Amasai was Elkanah's son. Elkanah was Joel's son. Joel was Azariah's son. Azariah was Zephaniah's son. 
1Chronicles6:37 Zephaniah was Tahath's son. Tahath was Assir's son. Assir was Ebiasaph's son. Ebiasaph was Korah's son. 
1Chronicles6:37 Zephaniah was Tahath's son. Tahath was Assir's son. Assir was Ebiasaph's son. Ebiasaph was Korah's son. 
1Chronicles6:38 Korah was Izhar's son. Izhar was Kohath's son. Kohath was Levi's son. Levi was Israel's son. 
1Chronicles6:39 Heman worked with his relative, Asaph. Asaph was Heman's helper. He was Berekiah's son. Berekiah was Shimea's son." 
1Chronicles6:40 Shimea was Michael's son. Michael was Baaseiah's son. Baaseiah was Malkijah's son. 
1Chronicles6:41 Malkijah was Ethni's son. Ethni was Zerah's son. Zerah was Adaiah's son. 
1Chronicles6:42 Adaiah was Ethan's son. Ethan was Zimmah's son. Zimmah was Shimei's son. 
1Chronicles6:43 Shimei was Jahath's son. Jahath was Gershon's son. Gershon was Levi's son. 
1Chronicles6:44 Other relatives of Heman and Asaph worked with them. They belonged to Merari's clan and they stood on the left side. Kishi's son Ethan led this group. Kishi was Abdi's son. Abdi was Malluch's son. 
1Chronicles6:45 Malluch was Hashabiah's son. Hashabiah was Amaziah's son. Amaziah was Hilkiah's son. 
1Chronicles6:46 Hilkiah was Amzi's son. Amzi was Bani's son. Bani was Shemer's son. 
1Chronicles6:47 Shemer was Mahli's son. Mahli was Mushi's son. Mushi was Merari's son. Merari was Levi's son. 
1Chronicles6:48 All the other Levites also had jobs to do in God's special tent. 
1Chronicles6:49 Only Aaron and his descendants served God as priests. They offered sacrifices to God on the altar for burnt offerings. They also burned sweet oils on the altar for incense. That was their work in the Most Holy Place. They made sacrifices so that God would forgive the sins of the Israelites. They did all this in the way that God's servant Moses had commanded. 
1Chronicles6:50 These were Aaron's descendants: Eleazar was Aaron's son. Phinehas was Eleazar's son. Abishua was Phinehas's son. 
1Chronicles6:51 Bukki was Abishua's son. Uzzi was Bukki's son. Zerahiah was Uzzi's son. 
1Chronicles6:52 Meraioth was Zerahiah's son. Amariah was Meraioth's son. Ahitub was Amariah's son. 
1Chronicles6:53 Zadok was Ahitub's son. Ahimaaz was Zadok's son. 
1Chronicles6:54 Aaron's descendants belonged to the clan of Levi's son, Kohath. When the leaders used lots to divide the land, Kohath's clan received the first part of the land. These places belonged to them:" 
1Chronicles6:55 They had Hebron city in Judah's land. They had the fields around the city. 
1Chronicles6:56 But Jephunneh's son, Caleb, had the villages around the city, with their fields." 
1Chronicles6:57 Aaron's descendants received these towns with the fields around them: Hebron (a safe city), Libnah, Jattir, Eshtemoa," 
1Chronicles6:58 Hilen, Debir," 
1Chronicles6:59 Ashan, Juttah and Beth-Shemesh." 
1Chronicles6:60 They also received some towns in land that belonged to Benjamin's tribe. They received these towns with the fields around them: Gibeon, Geba, Alemeth and Anathoth. So there were 13 towns for Aaron's descendants to live in." 
1Chronicles6:61 The other people who were Kohath's descendants received ten towns in land that belonged to the half tribe of Manasseh. They used lots to choose the towns. 
1Chronicles6:62 Gershon's descendants received 13 towns. The lots showed which towns they would receive. Their towns were in land that belonged to the tribes of Issachar, Asher and Naphtali, as well as in Manasseh's land in the region of Bashan, on the east side of the Jordan River." 
1Chronicles6:63 Merari's descendants received 12 towns. The lots showed which towns they would receive. Their towns were in land that belonged to the tribes of Reuben, Gad and Zebulun." 
1Chronicles6:64 So the Israelites gave those towns and the fields around them to the Levites. 
1Chronicles6:65 They used lots to choose these towns, including the towns in land that belonged to the tribes of Judah, Simeon and Benjamin." 
1Chronicles6:66 Descendants of Kohath received towns in land that belonged to Ephraim's tribe. They received these towns with the fields around them: 
1Chronicles6:67 Shechem (a safe city in the hill country of Ephraim), Gezer," 
1Chronicles6:68 Jokmeam, Beth-Horon," 
1Chronicles6:69 Aijalon and Gath-Rimmon. 
1Chronicles6:70 The other descendants of Kohath received towns in land that belonged to the half tribe of Manasseh. They received Aner with its fields and Bileam with its fields. 
1Chronicles6:71 The descendants of Gershon received these towns in land that belonged to the other half tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan with its fields and Ashtaroth with its fields. 
1Chronicles6:72 They also received towns in land that belonged to Issachar's tribe. They received these towns and the fields around them: Kedesh, Daberath," 
1Chronicles6:73 Ramoth and Anem. 
1Chronicles6:74 They received these towns in land that belonged to Asher's tribe: Mashal with its fields, Abdon with its fields," 
1Chronicles6:75 Hukok with its fields and Rehob with its fields. 
1Chronicles6:76 They received these towns in land that belonged to Naphtali's tribe: Kedesh in Galilee with its fields, Hammon with its fields and Kiriathaim with its fields." 
1Chronicles6:77 The rest of Levi's descendants, who belonged to Merari's clan, received these towns: In land that belonged to Zebulun's tribe they received Rimmono with its fields and Tabor with its fields." 
1Chronicles6:78 They also received towns in land that belonged to Reuben's tribe on the east side of the Jordan River, beyond Jericho city. They received these towns and the fields around them: Bezer in the desert, Jahzah," 
1Chronicles6:79 Kedemoth and Mephaath. 
1Chronicles6:80 They received these towns in land that belonged to Gad's tribe: Ramoth in Gilead with its fields, Mahanaim with its fields," 
1Chronicles6:81 Heshbon with its fields and Jazer with its fields. 
1Chronicles7:1 Issachar had four sons. They were Tola, Puah, Jashub and Shimron." 
1Chronicles7:2 Tola's sons were Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam and Samuel. They were leaders of their clans. Among Tola's descendants there were 22,600 brave soldiers when David was king." 
1Chronicles7:3 Uzzi's son was Izrahiah. Izrahiah's sons were Michael, Obadiah, Joel and Isshiah. All those five men in Uzzi's family were leaders." 
1Chronicles7:3 Uzzi's son was Izrahiah. Izrahiah's sons were Michael, Obadiah, Joel and Isshiah. All those five men in Uzzi's family were leaders." 
1Chronicles7:3 Uzzi's son was Izrahiah. Izrahiah's sons were Michael, Obadiah, Joel and Isshiah. All those five men in Uzzi's family were leaders." 
1Chronicles7:4 The books of their clans show that they had many wives and sons. They had 36,000 men who were ready to fight in the army." 
1Chronicles7:5 The books of the clans of Issachar show that they had 87,000 brave soldiers." 
1Chronicles7:6 Benjamin had three sons. They were Bela, Becher and Jediael." 
1Chronicles7:7 Bela had five sons. They were Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth and Iri. They were leaders of their clans. The books of their ancestors show that they had 22,034 brave soldiers." 
1Chronicles7:8 Becher's sons were Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth and Alemeth. All those men were sons of Becher." 
1Chronicles7:9 The books of their ancestors include a list of those clan leaders. Also the books show that they had 22,200 brave soldiers." 
1Chronicles7:10 Jediael's son was Bilhan. Bilhan's sons were Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Kenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish and Ahishahar." 
1Chronicles7:11 All those sons of Jediael were leaders of their clans. They had 17,200 brave soldiers who were ready to fight in the army." 
1Chronicles7:12 Shuppim and Huppim were descendants of Ir. The people called the Hushim were descendants of Aher. 
1Chronicles7:13 Naphtali's sons were Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer and Shallum. They were Bilhah's grandsons." 
1Chronicles7:14 These are Manasseh's descendants. Manasseh had a woman that he lived with. She was from the country of Syria. She was the mother of Asriel and Makir. Makir was Gilead's father. 
1Chronicles7:15 Makir's wife was one of the Huppim and Shuppim people. His sister's name was Maakah. Zelophehad was another descendant of Makir. Zelophehad had only daughters. 
1Chronicles7:16 Makir's wife Maakah had a son and she called him Peresh. Peresh's brother was Sheresh and Sheresh's sons were Ulam and Rekem. 
1Chronicles7:17 Ulam's son was Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead. Gilead was the son of Makir and Makir was Manasseh's son. 
1Chronicles7:18 Hammoleketh was Gilead's sister. And she had sons called Ishhod, Abiezer and Mahlah." 
1Chronicles7:19 The sons of Shemida were Ahian, Shechem, Likhi and Aniam." 
1Chronicles7:20 These are the names of Ephraim's descendants. Ephraim's son was Shuthelah. Shuthelah's son was Bered and Bered's son was Tahath. Tahath's son was Eleadah and Eleadah's son was Tahath. 
1Chronicles7:21 Tahath's son was Zabad and Zabad's son was Shuthelah. Ezer and Elead were also sons of Ephraim. They went to Gath and they tried to take some cows and sheep from there. So some men who were born in that city killed them. 
1Chronicles7:22 Their father Ephraim cried for them and he was sad for many days. And his family came to help him. 
1Chronicles7:23 Then Ephraim had sex with his wife and they had another son. Ephraim called him Beriah. That name means ‘trouble’. Ephraim chose that name because of his family's troubles. 
1Chronicles7:24 Beriah's daughter was Sheerah. She built Lower and Higher Beth-Horon. And she built Uzzen-Sheerah. 
1Chronicles7:25 And Beriah's son was Rephah. And Rephah's son was Resheph. Resheph's son was Telah and Telah's son was Tahan. 
1Chronicles7:26 Tahan's son was Ladan. Ladan's son was Ammihud and Ammihud's son was Elishama. 
1Chronicles7:27 Elishama's son was Nun and Joshua was the son of Nun. 
1Chronicles7:27 Elishama's son was Nun and Joshua was the son of Nun. 
1Chronicles7:28 Ephraim's descendants lived in Bethel and in the villages near it. And they had land there. Also they lived in Naaran in the east. And they lived in Gezer and in the villages near it. Those places were in the west. Also, they lived in Shechem and in the villages near it. And they lived in Ayyah and in the villages near it." 
1Chronicles7:29 Along the borders of the land which belonged to Manasseh's descendants were other towns. They included Beth-Shan and the villages near it and Taanach and its villages. They also included Megiddo and its villages and Dor and its villages. The descendants of Joseph (son of Israel) lived in those towns and villages. 
1Chronicles7:30 Asher's sons were Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi and Beriah and their sister was Serah." 
1Chronicles7:31 Beriah's sons were Heber and Malkiel and Malkiel was Birzaith's father. 
1Chronicles7:32 Heber was the father of Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham and their sister Shua." 
1Chronicles7:33 Japhlet's sons were Pasach, Bimhal and Ashvath. They were Japhlet's sons." 
1Chronicles7:34 Shemer's sons were Ahi, Rohgah, Hubbah and Aram." 
1Chronicles7:35 Shemer's brother was Helem and Helem's sons were Zophah, Imna, Shelesh and Amal." 
1Chronicles7:36 Zophah's sons were Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah, Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran and Beera." 
1Chronicles7:37  
1Chronicles7:38 Jether's sons were Jephunneh, Pispah and Ara." 
1Chronicles7:39 Ulla's sons were Arah, Hanniel and Rizia." 
1Chronicles7:40 All those men were descendants of Asher. They were leaders of their clans. They were great and brave soldiers and great leaders. They had 26,000 men ready to fight in the army. There were lists that showed those men's names with their clans." 
1Chronicles8:1 Benjamin became the father of Bela, his firstborn son. Ashbel was his second son. Aharah was his third son." 
1Chronicles8:2 Nohah was his fourth son. Rapha was his fifth son. 
1Chronicles8:3 Bela's sons were: Addar, Gera, Abihud," 
1Chronicles8:4 Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah," 
1Chronicles8:5 Gera, Shephuphan and Huram." 
1Chronicles8:6 Here is a list of the descendants of Ehud who were the leaders of their clans. They were living in Geba, but they had to leave there and move to Manahath." 
1Chronicles8:7 Ehud's descendants were: Naaman, Ahijah and Gera. It was Gera who led them to Manahath. He became the father of Uzza and Ahihud." 
1Chronicles8:8 Shaharaim and his wife Hushim had sons called Abitub and Elpaal. In Moab, Shaharaim sent away his two wives, Hushim and Baara. After that, Shaharaim married Hodesh. They had sons called Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam, Jeuz, Sakia and Mirmah. They were leaders of their clans." 
1Chronicles8:8 Shaharaim and his wife Hushim had sons called Abitub and Elpaal. In Moab, Shaharaim sent away his two wives, Hushim and Baara. After that, Shaharaim married Hodesh. They had sons called Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam, Jeuz, Sakia and Mirmah. They were leaders of their clans." 
1Chronicles8:9  
1Chronicles8:10  
1Chronicles8:11  
1Chronicles8:12 Elpaal's sons were: Eber, Misham, Shemed, Beriah and Shema. Shemed built the towns of Ono and Lod, and the villages around them. Beriah and Shema were leaders of the clans that lived in Aijalon city. They chased the people of Gath out of their city." 
1Chronicles8:13  
1Chronicles8:14 Beriah's descendants were: Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth," 
1Chronicles8:15 Zebadiah, Arad, Eder," 
1Chronicles8:16 Michael, Ishpah and Joha." 
1Chronicles8:17 Elpaal's descendants were: Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber," 
1Chronicles8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah and Jobab." 
1Chronicles8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah and Jobab." 
1Chronicles8:19 Shimei's descendants were: Jakim, Zikri, Zabdi," 
1Chronicles8:20 Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel," 
1Chronicles8:21 Adaiah, Beraiah and Shimrath." 
1Chronicles8:22 Shashak's descendants were: Ishpan, Eber, Eliel," 
1Chronicles8:23 Abdon, Zikri, Hanan," 
1Chronicles8:24 Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah," 
1Chronicles8:25 Iphdeiah and Penuel. 
1Chronicles8:26 Jeroham's descendants were: Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah," 
1Chronicles8:27 Jaareshiah, Elijah and Zikri." 
1Chronicles8:28 The history books show that all those men were leaders of their clans. They lived in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles8:29 Gibeon's father lived in Gibeon town. His wife's name was Maakah. 
1Chronicles8:30 His firstborn son was Abdon. His other sons were Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab," 
1Chronicles8:31 Gedor, Ahio, Zeker and Mikloth." 
1Chronicles8:32 Mikloth became the father of Shimeah. They lived near their relatives in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles8:33 Ner became the father of Kish. Kish became the father of Saul. Saul became the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab and Esh-Baal." 
1Chronicles8:34 Jonathan's son was Merib-Baal. Merib-Baal became the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles8:34 Jonathan's son was Merib-Baal. Merib-Baal became the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles8:35 Micah's sons were: Pithon, Melech, Tarea and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles8:35 Micah's sons were: Pithon, Melech, Tarea and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles8:36 Ahaz became the father of Jehoaddah. Jehoaddah became the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri. Zimri became the father of Moza." 
1Chronicles8:37 Moza became the father of Binea. Binea's son was Raphah. Raphah's son was Eleasah. Eleasah's son was Azel. 
1Chronicles8:38 Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. That is the list of Azel's sons." 
1Chronicles8:38 Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. That is the list of Azel's sons." 
1Chronicles8:39 Azel's brother was Eshek. Eshek's sons were: Ulam, his firstborn son, then Jeush and then Eliphelet." 
1Chronicles8:40 Ulam's sons were brave soldiers. They could shoot arrows very well. They had 150 sons and grandsons. All those men were descendants of Benjamin. 
1Chronicles9:1 All the Israelites' names were included in the lists of their ancestors. Those lists are written in the history book about Israel's kings. The people of Judah had turned away from the Lord. Their enemies took them away to Babylon as their prisoners. 
1Chronicles9:2 The first people who returned to their home towns after that were some priests, Levites, servants in the temple and other Israelites." 
1Chronicles9:3 Some people from the tribes of Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim and Manasseh lived in Jerusalem. Those people included: Uthai, son of Ammihud and grandson of Omri. Omri was Imri's son. Imri was Bani's son. Bani was a descendant of Judah's son, Perez." 
1Chronicles9:4  
1Chronicles9:5 From the clan of Judah's son Shelah, there were Asaiah and his sons. Asaiah was the oldest son in his family." 
1Chronicles9:6 From the clan of Judah's son Zerah, there was Jeuel. There were 690 people from Judah's tribe who returned." 
1Chronicles9:7 From Benjamin's tribe, there was: Sallu, the son of Meshullam and grandson of Hodaviah, who was Hassenuah's son." 
1Chronicles9:8 There was also Jeroham's son Ibneiah, Elah the son of Uzzi and grandson of Mikri, and Meshullam, son of Shephatiah and grandson of Reuel, who was Ibnijah's son." 
1Chronicles9:9 There were 956 people from Benjamin's tribe who returned. Their names are written in the lists of their ancestors. All those men were leaders of their clans. 
1Chronicles9:10 The priests who returned to live in Jerusalem were: Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, Jakin and Azariah." 
1Chronicles9:11 Azariah was Hilkiah's son. Hilkiah was Meshullam's son. Meshullam was Zadok's son. Zadok was Meraioth's son. Meraioth was Ahitub's son. Ahitub was the most important officer in God's temple. 
1Chronicles9:12 There was also Adaiah, the son of Jeroham and grandson of Pashhur, who was Malkijah's son. And there was Maasai, the son of Adiel and grandson of Jahzerah. Jahzerah was Meshullam's son. Meshullam was Meshillemith's son, and Meshillemith was Immer's son." 
1Chronicles9:13 There were 1,760 priests and their relatives who returned. They were leaders of their clans. They were able to do their jobs well as they served God in his temple." 
1Chronicles9:14 From the Levites, there were: Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub and grandson of Azrikam, who was Hashabiah's son. Hashabiah belonged to Merari's clan." 
1Chronicles9:15 There was Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal and Mattaniah, the son of Mica and grandson of Zikri, who was a descendant of Asaph." 
1Chronicles9:16 There was also Obadiah, the son of Shemaiah and grandson of Galal, who was Jeduthun's son. And there was Berekiah, the son of Asa and grandson of Elkanah. Elkanah had lived in the villages that belonged to Netophah." 
1Chronicles9:16 There was also Obadiah, the son of Shemaiah and grandson of Galal, who was Jeduthun's son. And there was Berekiah, the son of Asa and grandson of Elkanah. Elkanah had lived in the villages that belonged to Netophah." 
1Chronicles9:17 The Levite guards at the gates of the temple were: Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman and their relatives. Shallum was their leader." 
1Chronicles9:18 Those guards stood at the King's Gate on the east side of the temple. 
1Chronicles9:19 Shallum was the son of Kore and grandson of Ebiasaph, who belonged to Korah's clan. Shallum and his relatives from Korah's clan were guards at the entrance of the Lord 's Holy Place. Their ancestors had also been guards at the entrance of the Lord 's special tent." 
1Chronicles9:20 Eleazar's son Phinehas had been the leader of the guards at one time. The Lord was with Phinehas to help him. 
1Chronicles9:21 Meshelemiah's son Zechariah was also a guard at the entrance of the tent where the Lord met with his people. 
1Chronicles9:21 Meshelemiah's son Zechariah was also a guard at the entrance of the tent where the Lord met with his people. 
1Chronicles9:22 There were 212 guards for the gates of the temple. Their names were written in the lists of their ancestors, for each village where they lived. King David and the prophet Samuel had chosen their ancestors to do this important work as guards." 
1Chronicles9:23 Those men and their descendants had to stand as guards at the gates of the Lord 's Holy Place, which had been a special tent." 
1Chronicles9:24 The guards stood on the four sides of the Lord 's house: the east, west, north and south sides." 
1Chronicles9:25 Their relatives lived in their villages. They came to Jerusalem to help with the work as guards. Each time that they came, they worked there for seven days." 
1Chronicles9:26 There were four faithful Levite guards who led the work. They kept safe the rooms in God's house where they stored valuable things and money. 
1Chronicles9:27 They stayed at their places around God's house during each night. It was their work to keep it safe. Each morning they would use their key to open the gates. 
1Chronicles9:28 Some of the guards kept safe the valuable things that the priests used when they served the Lord. The guards counted those things when the priests brought them in. They counted them again when the priests took them out. 
1Chronicles9:29 Some other guards kept safe the tools and the valuable things that were in the Holy Place. Some guards took care of the flour, wine, olive oil, incense and spices." 
1Chronicles9:30 But it was the work of some of the priests to mix the spices. 
1Chronicles9:31 Mattithiah was a Levite who belonged to Korah's clan. His work was to prepare the bread that they used as offerings. 
1Chronicles9:32 Other Levites who belonged to Kohath's clan prepared the bread for the special table. The priests put this bread on the special table in the Holy Place each Sabbath day. 
1Chronicles9:33 Some of the Levites were musicians in the temple. The leaders of those clans lived in rooms at the temple. They needed to do their work as musicians during the night, as well as during the day. So they did not have other jobs to do in the temple." 
1Chronicles9:34 Those men were the leaders of the Levite clans. Their names are written in the lists of their clans' ancestors. They lived in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles9:35 Gibeon's father, Jeiel, lived in Gibeon town. His wife's name was Maakah." 
1Chronicles9:36 His firstborn son was Abdon. His other sons were Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab," 
1Chronicles9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah and Mikloth." 
1Chronicles9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah and Mikloth." 
1Chronicles9:38 Mikloth became the father of Shimeam. They lived near their relatives in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles9:39 Ner became the father of Kish. Kish became the father of Saul. Saul became the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab and Esh-Baal." 
1Chronicles9:40 Jonathan's son was Merib-Baal. Merib-Baal became the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles9:40 Jonathan's son was Merib-Baal. Merib-Baal became the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles9:41 Micah's sons were: Pithon, Melech, Tahrea and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles9:41 Micah's sons were: Pithon, Melech, Tahrea and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles9:42 Ahaz became the father of Jadah. Jadah became the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri. Zimri became the father of Moza." 
1Chronicles9:43 Moza became the father of Binea. Binea's son was Rephaiah. Rephaiah's son was Eleasah. Eleasah's son was Azel. 
1Chronicles9:44 Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. That is the list of Azel's sons." 
1Chronicles9:44 Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. That is the list of Azel's sons." 
1Chronicles10:1 The Philistines fought against the Israelites. The Israelites ran away, and the Philistines killed many of them on Gilboa mountain." 
1Chronicles10:2 The Philistines chased after Saul and his sons to catch them. They killed Saul's sons Jonathan, Abinadab and Malki-Shua." 
1Chronicles10:3 The Philistines were fighting the battle all around Saul. Some of their soldiers saw Saul and they shot their arrows at him. The arrows hurt Saul very much. 
1Chronicles10:4 Saul said to the young man who carried his armour, ‘Kill me now with your sword. I do not want these foreign men to come and be cruel to me.’ But the young man would not agree to kill Saul because he was too afraid. So Saul took his own sword and he threw himself onto it so that he died." 
1Chronicles10:5 The young man saw that Saul was dead. So he threw himself onto his own sword and he died too. 
1Chronicles10:6 So Saul died there, with his three sons. His whole family died together." 
1Chronicles10:7 All the Israelites who lived in Jezreel Valley saw that their army had run away from the Philistines. They also saw that Saul and his sons were dead. So they left their towns and they ran away. Then the Philistines came to live in those towns. 
1Chronicles10:8 On the day after the battle, the Philistines came to take all the valuable things from the dead soldiers. They found the dead bodies of Saul and his sons on Mount Gilboa." 
1Chronicles10:9 They removed everything from Saul's dead body. They took away his head and his weapons. Then they sent men through all the country of the Philistines with the news of Saul's death. These men told the news to all their people and to their idols as well. 
1Chronicles10:10 They put Saul's weapons in the temple of their gods. They hung his head in the temple of their god, Dagon." 
1Chronicles10:11 All the Israelites who lived in Jabesh Gilead heard about what the Philistines had done to Saul's body. 
1Chronicles10:12 So all their brave soldiers went to get the dead bodies of Saul and his sons. They took them to Jabesh Gilead. They buried the bones under the large tree there. The people in Jabesh Gilead did not eat any food for seven days because they were so sad. 
1Chronicles10:13 Saul died because he turned away from the Lord. He did not obey the Lord 's commands. He even tried to get advice from the spirits of dead people. 
1Chronicles10:14 He did not ask the Lord to tell him what he should do. So the Lord punished him with death. The Lord gave the kingdom of Israel to Jesse's son, David, instead." 
1Chronicles11:1 Then all the Israelites came to David at Hebron. They said to him, ‘We all belong to the same family as you do." 
1Chronicles11:2 In the past, even when Saul was our king, you led the Israelites in war. The Lord your God said to you, “You will take care of my people, as a shepherd takes care of his sheep. You will rule over my people, Israel.” ’" 
1Chronicles11:3 So King David made an agreement with the leaders of Israel when they came to him at Hebron. They made promises in the Lord 's name. Then they anointed David to be king over Israel. The Lord had told Samuel that this would happen. 
1Chronicles11:4 David and the whole Israelite army marched to attack Jerusalem. At that time, the city was called Jebus. The people who lived there were called Jebusites." 
1Chronicles11:5 The Jebusites said to David, ‘You will never get into our city.’ But David did get in and he took Zion, the city's strong place. It is now called the City of David." 
1Chronicles11:6 David had said to his soldiers, ‘The man who attacks the Jebusites first will become the captain of my army.’ Zeruiah's son Joab attacked first. So he became the captain of the army." 
1Chronicles11:7 David went to live in the strong place of the city. So people called it ‘The City of David’. 
1Chronicles11:8 David built more houses all around it, from the edge of the hill to the city's walls. Joab built up again the other buildings in the city." 
1Chronicles11:9 David became more and more powerful because the Lord Almighty was with him. 
1Chronicles11:10 These were the leaders of David's brave soldiers. They helped to make David's kingdom strong, so that he ruled over all the people in Israel. That is what the Lord had promised." 
1Chronicles11:11 This is the list of David's brave soldiers: Jashobeam belonged to Hakmoni's clan. He was the leader of David's officers. He used his spear to fight against 300 men in one battle and he killed all of them. 
1Chronicles11:12 Eleazar was also a leader among the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’. He was Dodo's son, who belonged to Ahoah's clan." 
1Chronicles11:13 Eleazar was with David at Pas-Dammim. The Philistine soldiers were ready to attack the Israelites. There was a field there with a lot of barley. The Israelites ran away from the Philistines. 
1Chronicles11:14 But David and Eleazar stood in the middle of the field to stop the Philistines taking it for themselves. They killed the Philistines. The Lord saved them. He caused them to win a great battle. 
1Chronicles11:15 There were 30 leaders among David's soldiers. Three of them went to be with David at Adullam's cave where there was a big rock. A group of Philistine soldiers had made their camp in Rephaim Valley. 
1Chronicles11:16 David was in his strong safe place. A group of Philistine soldiers had made their home in Bethlehem. 
1Chronicles11:17 David was very thirsty. He said, ‘I want someone to bring water from the well near Bethlehem's gate for me to drink.’" 
1Chronicles11:18 So the three soldiers fought through the Philistine camp and they reached Bethlehem's gate. They took some water from the well there and they carried it back to David. But he refused to drink it. He poured it on the ground as an offering to the Lord. 
1Chronicles11:19 He said, ‘God knows that it is not right for me to drink this water. It would seem like the blood of the brave men who went to get it for me. The Philistines might have killed them on the way.’ So David refused to drink it. That was one of the great things that those three brave soldiers did." 
1Chronicles11:20 Joab's brother Abishai was the leader of David's 30 great soldiers. One time, he used his spear to fight 300 men and he killed them all. So he became as famous as the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’." 
1Chronicles11:21 He was not one of the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’ but he received more honour than the other 30 great soldiers. So he became their leader. 
1Chronicles11:22 Jehoiada's son, Benaiah, was also one of David's brave soldiers. He came from Kabzeel and he did many great things. He killed two of Moab's best soldiers. He also went down into a deep hole to kill a lion when snow was on the ground." 
1Chronicles11:23 Benaiah also killed a very big Egyptian man who was 2.3 metres tall. The Egyptian held a spear that was thick and heavy, like a big tree. Benaiah attacked him with a heavy stick. He took the spear from the Egyptian's hand and he used it to kill him." 
1Chronicles11:24 Those were some things that Jehoiada's son Benaiah did. He became as famous as the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’. 
1Chronicles11:25 He received more honour than the other 30 great soldiers, but he did not belong to the ‘Three Brave Soldiers’. David made him the leader of his own special soldiers who were his guards." 
1Chronicles11:26 These men were also David's great soldiers: Joab's brother Asahel. Elhanan, Dodo's son, from Bethlehem." 
1Chronicles11:27 Shammoth, from Harod's clan. Helez, from Pelon's clan." 
1Chronicles11:28 Ira, Ikkesh's son, from Tekoa. Abiezer, from Anathoth." 
1Chronicles11:29 Sibbekai, from Hushah's clan. Ilai, from Ahoah's clan." 
1Chronicles11:30 Maharai, from Netophah. Heled, Baanah's son, also from Netophah." 
1Chronicles11:31 Ithai, Ribai's son, from Gibeah, in the land that belonged to Benjamin's tribe. Benaiah, from Pirathon." 
1Chronicles11:32 Hurai, from the valleys near Gaash. Abiel, from Arbah's clan." 
1Chronicles11:33 Azmaveth, from Baharum. Eliahba, from Shaalbon." 
1Chronicles11:34 Hashem's sons, who were Gizonites. Shagee's son Jonathan, from Harar." 
1Chronicles11:35 Sachar's son Ahiam, also from Harar. Ur's son Eliphal." 
1Chronicles11:36 Hepher, from Mekerah. Ahijah, from Pelon's clan." 
1Chronicles11:37 Hezro, from Carmel. Ezbai's son Naarai." 
1Chronicles11:38 Nathan's brother Joel. Hagri's son Mibhar. 
1Chronicles11:38 Nathan's brother Joel. Hagri's son Mibhar. 
1Chronicles11:39 Zelek, from Ammon. Naharai, from Beeroth. He carried Joab's weapons. (Joab was the son of Zeruiah.)" 
1Chronicles11:40 Ira and Gareb, from Jattir." 
1Chronicles11:41 Uriah, the Hittite. Ahlai's son Zabad." 
1Chronicles11:42 Shiza's son Adina, from Reuben's tribe. He was the leader of Reuben's soldiers. He had 30 brave soldiers with him." 
1Chronicles11:43 Maakah's son Hanan. Joshaphat, from Mithna." 
1Chronicles11:44 Uzzia, from Ashterath. Shama and Jeiel, sons of Hotham, from Aroer." 
1Chronicles11:45 Shimri's son Jediael. Jediael's brother Joha, from Tiz." 
1Chronicles11:46 Eliel, from Mahavah. Elnaam's sons, Jeribai and Joshaviah. Ithmah, from Moab." 
1Chronicles11:47 Eliel and Obed. Jaasiel, from Zobah." 
1Chronicles12:1 David went to Ziklag because King Saul, the son of Kish, had chased him away. Many brave men went to David there. They were some of the brave soldiers who helped David to fight in war." 
1Chronicles12:2 They could shoot with bows and arrows. They could use slings to throw stones with either their right hand or their left hand. They were relatives of Saul, from Benjamin's tribe. Their names were:" 
1Chronicles12:3 Ahiezer, their leader, and his brother Joash. They were sons of Shemaah, who was from Gibeah town. Jeziel and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth. Beracah. Jehu, from Anathoth town." 
1Chronicles12:4 Ishmaiah, from Gibeon town. He was the leader of the 30 great soldiers. Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan and Jozabad, who was from Gederah." 
1Chronicles12:4 Ishmaiah, from Gibeon town. He was the leader of the 30 great soldiers. Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan and Jozabad, who was from Gederah." 
1Chronicles12:5 Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah and Shephatiah, who was from Hariph." 
1Chronicles12:6 Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer and Jashobeam. They belonged to Korah's clan." 
1Chronicles12:7 Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham from Gedor town." 
1Chronicles12:7 Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham from Gedor town." 
1Chronicles12:8 Many soldiers from Gad's tribe joined David's army at his strong place in the desert. These men were brave soldiers who knew how to fight well. They could use shields and spears. They could fight like lions. They could run as fast as deer on the mountains. 
1Chronicles12:9 Ezer was their leader. After him there were: Obadiah (2), Eliab (3)," 
1Chronicles12:9 Ezer was their leader. After him there were: Obadiah (2), Eliab (3)," 
1Chronicles12:10 Mishmannah (4), Jeremiah (5)," 
1Chronicles12:10 Mishmannah (4), Jeremiah (5)," 
1Chronicles12:11 Attai (6), Eliel (7)," 
1Chronicles12:12 Johanan (8), Elzabad (9)," 
1Chronicles12:13 Jeremiah (10), and Makbannai (11)." 
1Chronicles12:13 Jeremiah (10), and Makbannai (11)." 
1Chronicles12:14 These descendants of Gad were leaders in the army. The least important officer among them led 100 soldiers. The greatest officer led 1,000 soldiers." 
1Chronicles12:15 Those men went across to the west side of the Jordan River during the first month of the year. At that time the water in the river was very deep and wide. They chased away the people who lived in the valleys on both sides of the river. 
1Chronicles12:16 Some other men from the tribes of Benjamin and Judah also came to David in his strong place. 
1Chronicles12:17 David went out to meet them. He said to them, ‘I hope that you have come here as my friends. If you have come to help me, I will make an agreement with you. But I hope that you have not come here to help my enemies and to tell them where I am hiding. I have not done anything wrong. So I pray that the God of our ancestors will see what you do. He will punish you as you deserve!’" 
1Chronicles12:18 Then God's Spirit came to Amasai with power. He was the leader of the 30 great soldiers. He said, ‘We will serve you, David, Jesse's son. We have come to help you! May God bless you! May God bless those who help you! Yes, your God will help you.’ So David accepted them as his friends. He made them officers in his army." 
1Chronicles12:19 Some men from Manasseh's tribe also joined David's army. That was at the time when David joined with the Philistines to fight against Saul. But David and his men were not able to help the Philistines like that. That was because the leaders of the Philistines decided to send David and his men away. They said, ‘David may turn against us and go to help his master Saul, instead. If he does that, we will all be dead!’" 
1Chronicles12:20 So David returned to Ziklag. These men from Manasseh's tribe joined David's army at that time: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu and Zillethai. Each of them had been the leader of 1,000 soldiers in Saul's army." 
1Chronicles12:21 All those men were brave soldiers and they became officers in David's army. They helped David to fight against the enemy's soldiers when they attacked. 
1Chronicles12:22 Every day more men came to help David. So his army became very large and powerful, like God's own army." 
1Chronicles12:23 This is a list of the soldiers who joined David's army at Hebron. They came with their officers and they were ready to fight. They wanted to help David become king of Israel instead of Saul. The Lord had promised that this would happen. 
1Chronicles12:24 From Judah's tribe, there were 6,800 men who carried shields and spears. They knew how to fight well." 
1Chronicles12:25 From Simeon's tribe, there were 7,100 strong men who knew how to fight well." 
1Chronicles12:26 From Levi's tribe, there were 4,600 men." 
1Chronicles12:27 Jehoiada was the leader of the men who were Aaron's descendants. He brought 3,700 men with him." 
1Chronicles12:28 Zadok was also in that group. He was a brave young soldier. There were also 22 officers who belonged to his clan. 
1Chronicles12:29 From Benjamin's tribe that Saul belonged to, there were 3,000 men. Most of those men had served Saul faithfully until that time." 
1Chronicles12:30 From Ephraim's tribe, there were 20,800 men who were brave soldiers. The people in their clans respected them very much." 
1Chronicles12:31 From the half tribe of Manasseh on the west side of the Jordan River, there were 18,000 men. Their clans had chosen those men to go and help David become their king." 
1Chronicles12:32 From Issachar's tribe, there were 200 officers and their relatives who obeyed their commands. Those officers understood that this was an important time for Israel. They knew what Israel should do." 
1Chronicles12:33 From Zebulun's tribe, there were 50,000 brave men who were ready to fight. They knew how to use many different kinds of weapons. They were completely faithful to David." 
1Chronicles12:34 From Naphtali's tribe, there were 1,000 officers and 37,000 men who carried shields and spears." 
1Chronicles12:35 From Dan's tribe, there were 28,600 men who were ready for war." 
1Chronicles12:36 From Asher's tribe there were 40,000 soldiers who were ready for war." 
1Chronicles12:37 From the east side of the Jordan River, there were 120,000 soldiers who knew how to use many different kinds of weapons. Those men belonged to the tribes of Reuben, Gad and the other half tribe of Manasseh." 
1Chronicles12:38 All those men were soldiers who were ready to fight in war. They came to David in Hebron because they wanted to make him king to rule all Israel. All the other Israelites also agreed that David should become king. 
1Chronicles12:39 The men stayed there with David for three days. Their relatives had prepared a lot of food for them. So they enjoyed a big feast together. 
1Chronicles12:40 People also came from places as far away as Issachar, Zebulun and Naphtali. They brought food on donkeys, camels, mules and oxen. So there was plenty of flour to make bread, and lots of figs, raisins, wine, olive oil, cows and sheep. All the Israelites had a very happy party!" 
1Chronicles13:1 David spoke with the officers of his army. Some of them were the leaders of 1,000 men. Other officers were the leaders of 100 men." 
1Chronicles13:2 Then David said to all the Israelites who were present, ‘I think that we should send a message to our relatives in all the regions of Israel. That should include the priests and the Levites in the towns where they live. We should ask all those people to meet with us here. We will do it if you agree that it is a good idea, and if the Lord our God wants us to do it." 
1Chronicles13:3 We should bring back the Covenant Box of our God. While Saul was king, we did not use it to ask God about things.’" 
1Chronicles13:4 All the people there agreed that this was a good idea. They realized that it was the right thing to do. 
1Chronicles13:5 So David brought together all the Israelites. They came from everywhere in Israel, from the Shihor River in Egypt, and as far as Lebo-Hamath. They came to bring God's Covenant Box back from Kiriath-Jearim." 
1Chronicles13:6 David and all the Israelites went to Baalah, a town in Judah. (Baalah is also called Kiriath-Jearim.) They went to bring the Covenant Box of God from there to Jerusalem. The Israelites called it by the name of the Lord. He sits as King between the two cherubs that are on the top of the Covenant Box." 
1Chronicles13:7 The people put God's Covenant Box on a new cart. They took it out of Abinadab's house. Uzzah and Ahio were leading the cart. 
1Chronicles13:8 David and all the Israelites were singing and dancing with all their strength to praise God. They made music with harps, lyres, tambourines, cymbals and trumpets." 
1Chronicles13:9 They reached the place of Kidon's threshing floor. There the oxen that were pulling the cart almost fell. So Uzzah reached out to hold the Covenant Box to stop it falling. 
1Chronicles13:10 The Lord was very angry with Uzzah because he had touched the Covenant Box. He knocked Uzzah down to the ground. Uzzah died there, beside God's Covenant Box." 
1Chronicles13:11 David was angry because the Lord had punished Uzzah. So he called that place ‘Perez Uzzah’. That is still its name today. 
1Chronicles13:12 So David now became afraid of God. He said, ‘God's Covenant Box is too holy to take with me.’" 
1Chronicles13:13 So he did not take the Covenant Box to the City of David to be with him there. Instead, he took it to the house of Obed-Edom, who came from Gath." 
1Chronicles13:14 God's Covenant Box stayed in the home of Obed-Edom's family for three months. During that time, the Lord blessed Obed-Edom's family and everything that he had." 
1Chronicles14:1 Then Hiram, king of Tyre, sent some of his men to David. They brought wood from Lebanon's cedar trees. Men who could work with stone and with wood also came. They built a palace for David." 
1Chronicles14:2 David realized that the Lord had made him strong as king over Israel. He knew that God had made his kingdom great, to help his people, the Israelites." 
1Chronicles14:3 When David lived in Jerusalem, he married more wives. He became the father of more sons and daughters." 
1Chronicles14:4 These are the names of David's children who were born in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon," 
1Chronicles14:5 Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet," 
1Chronicles14:6 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia," 
1Chronicles14:7 Elishama, Beeliada and Eliphelet." 
1Chronicles14:8 The Philistines heard the news that David had now become king over all Israel. So their whole army went to look for him to catch him. When David heard about this, he went out to attack them." 
1Chronicles14:9 The Philistine soldiers arrived at Rephaim Valley. They attacked the people there. 
1Chronicles14:10 David asked God, ‘Should I go and attack the Philistines? Will you put them under my power?’ The Lord answered him, ‘Yes, go and attack the Philistines. I will help you to win against them.’" 
1Chronicles14:11 So David and his men went to Baal Perazim. They won the fight there against the Philistines. David said, ‘God has helped me to sweep away my enemy like a flood of water.’ So they called that place Baal Perazim." 
1Chronicles14:12 The Philistines did not take their idols with them when they ran away. David told his men to destroy the idols in a fire. 
1Chronicles14:13 Once again, the Philistines attacked the people who lived in the valley." 
1Chronicles14:14 So David again asked God what he should do. This time God told him, ‘Do not march straight towards them. Instead, go round behind them. Then attack them from the other side, where the poplar trees are." 
1Chronicles14:15 When you hear a noise in the tops of the trees like the sound of marching men, go out to attack them. Then you will know that God has gone in front of you. He will knock down the Philistine army for you.’" 
1Chronicles14:16 So David did as God had commanded him to do. His men chased the Philistine army all the way from Gibeon to Gezer. 
1Chronicles14:17 So David became famous in every country. The Lord caused the people of every nation to be afraid of David. 
1Chronicles15:1 David built houses for himself in the City of David. He put up a tent as a place where he would put God's Covenant Box. 
1Chronicles15:2 Then David said, ‘Only the Levites may carry God's Covenant Box. The Lord chose them to do that. He chose them to serve him for ever.’" 
1Chronicles15:3 David brought all the Israelites together in Jerusalem. He said that they should bring the Lord 's Covenant Box to the place that he had prepared for it. 
1Chronicles15:4 Then David brought together the descendants of Aaron and the other Levites. They were: 
1Chronicles15:5 From Kohath's clan, 120 people with their leader, Uriel." 
1Chronicles15:6 From Merari's clan, 220 people with their leader, Asaiah." 
1Chronicles15:7 From Gershon's clan, 130 people with their leader, Joel." 
1Chronicles15:7 From Gershon's clan, 130 people with their leader, Joel." 
1Chronicles15:8 From Elizaphan's clan, 200 people with their leader, Shemaiah." 
1Chronicles15:9 From Hebron's clan, 80 people with their leader, Eliel." 
1Chronicles15:10 From Uzziel's clan, 112 people with their leader, Amminadab." 
1Chronicles15:11 Then David told the priests Zadok and Abiathar to come to him. He also told these Levites to come: Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel and Amminadab." 
1Chronicles15:11 Then David told the priests Zadok and Abiathar to come to him. He also told these Levites to come: Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel and Amminadab." 
1Chronicles15:12 David said to them, ‘You are the leaders of the Levites' clans. You and your relatives must make yourselves holy. Then you will be able to carry the Covenant Box of the Lord, Israel's God. You must bring it to the place that I have prepared for it." 
1Chronicles15:13 The first time that we tried to bring it here, you did not carry it. Because of that, the Lord our God punished us. He did that because we did not ask him about the proper way to carry it.’" 
1Chronicles15:14 So the priests and the other Levites made themselves holy. Then they could carry the Covenant Box of the Lord, Israel's God." 
1Chronicles15:15 The Levites carried God's Covenant Box with its poles on their shoulders. That is how God had commanded Moses that they should carry it. 
1Chronicles15:16 David told the leaders of the Levites to choose some of their relatives to be musicians. Some would sing songs. Some would make music with lyres, harps and cymbals. They would sing loud and happy songs." 
1Chronicles15:17 The Levites chose Joel's son Heman. They also chose Berekiah's son Asaph, who was a relative of Heman. And they chose Kishi's son Ethan, who belonged to Merari's clan." 
1Chronicles15:17 The Levites chose Joel's son Heman. They also chose Berekiah's son Asaph, who was a relative of Heman. And they chose Kishi's son Ethan, who belonged to Merari's clan." 
1Chronicles15:18 They also chose another group of Levites to help them. They were: Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, as well as two temple guards, Obed-Edom and Jeiel." 
1Chronicles15:18 They also chose another group of Levites to help them. They were: Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, as well as two temple guards, Obed-Edom and Jeiel." 
1Chronicles15:19 They chose these musicians to make music with bronze cymbals: Heman, Asaph and Ethan." 
1Chronicles15:20 They chose these musicians to make music in a special way with harps: Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah and Benaiah." 
1Chronicles15:20 They chose these musicians to make music in a special way with harps: Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah and Benaiah." 
1Chronicles15:21 They chose these musicians to make music in a special way with lyres: Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, Jeiel and Azaziah." 
1Chronicles15:22 Kenaniah was the leader of the musicians. They chose him to do that because he had good skill in music. 
1Chronicles15:23 Berekiah and Elkanah were guards to keep the Covenant Box safe. 
1Chronicles15:24 The priests Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah and Eliezer walked in front of God's Covenant Box. They made a loud noise with trumpets as they went. Obed-Edom and Jehiah were also guards for the Covenant Box." 
1Chronicles15:24 The priests Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah and Eliezer walked in front of God's Covenant Box. They made a loud noise with trumpets as they went. Obed-Edom and Jehiah were also guards for the Covenant Box." 
1Chronicles15:25 So David, the leaders of Israel and the army officers went to bring the Lord 's Covenant Box from Obed-Edom's house. They were very happy as they took it from there to Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles15:26 The Lord helped the Levites who were carrying his Covenant Box. So they offered seven bulls and seven male sheep as sacrifices to the Lord. 
1Chronicles15:27 David was wearing a robe that was made of good linen. All the Levites who were carrying the Covenant Box also wore linen clothes. So did the musicians and Kenaniah, their leader. David also wore a linen ephod over his robe." 
1Chronicles15:28 In that way, all the Israelites brought the Lord 's Covenant Box to Jerusalem. They were shouting. They were making loud music with trumpets, cymbals, lyres and harps." 
1Chronicles15:29 While they were bringing the Lord 's Covenant Box into the City of David, Saul's daughter Michal looked out through a window. She saw that King David was dancing because he was so happy. Michal felt ashamed of him." 
1Chronicles16:1 David had put up a special tent for God's Covenant Box, so they took it there. They put it in its place inside the tent. Then they offered burnt offerings and friendship offerings to God." 
1Chronicles16:2 After David had offered those sacrifices, he prayed that the Lord would bless the people." 
1Chronicles16:3 Then he gave a gift to every Israelite man and woman. Each person received a loaf of bread, some dates and some raisins." 
1Chronicles16:4 Then David chose some Levites to serve the Lord at the Covenant Box. They would lead prayers and songs to thank the Lord, Israel's God, and to praise him." 
1Chronicles16:5 Asaph was the leader of that group and Zechariah was the second leader. Then there were Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel. Those men made music with harps and lyres. Asaph used the cymbals." 
1Chronicles16:5 Asaph was the leader of that group and Zechariah was the second leader. Then there were Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel. Those men made music with harps and lyres. Asaph used the cymbals." 
1Chronicles16:6 The priests Benaiah and Jahaziel would make a noise with trumpets in front of God's Covenant Box many times each day. 
1Chronicles16:7 On that day, David first told Asaph and the other Levites to sing this song to thank the Lord:" 
1Chronicles16:8 Thank the Lord! Make his name famous! Tell people in all the nations what he has done. 
1Chronicles16:9 Sing songs and make music to praise him! Tell people about the miracles that he has done. 
1Chronicles16:10 Boast about his holy name. Everybody who wants to worship the Lord should be very happy! 
1Chronicles16:11 Ask the Lord to help you! Ask him to give you strength. Always try to be near him and worship him. 
1Chronicles16:12 Remember the great things that he has done. Remember his miracles, and the commands that he has spoken." 
1Chronicles16:13 You are the descendants of God's servant, Israel. You are Jacob's descendants, and God has chosen you to be his people." 
1Chronicles16:14 He is the Lord our God. He rules the whole earth with justice. 
1Chronicles16:15 Always remember the covenant that he has made with us. He made that promise to continue for ever. 
1Chronicles16:16 That is the promise that he made to Abraham, and that he also made to Isaac." 
1Chronicles16:17 He repeated it to Jacob as a law. It was a covenant with Israel's people that would continue for ever. 
1Chronicles16:18 He promised, ‘I will give the land of Canaan to you. It will belong to you and to your descendants.’" 
1Chronicles16:19 At one time, God's people were only a few. They lived in Canaan as strangers." 
1Chronicles16:20 They travelled among different nations and different kingdoms. 
1Chronicles16:21 But the Lord did not let anyone hurt them. He punished kings, to keep his people safe." 
1Chronicles16:22 He said, ‘Do not even touch the people that I have chosen to be mine. Do not hurt my prophets.’" 
1Chronicles16:23 Sing to the Lord, all the world. Every day, tell people the message that he has rescued us." 
1Chronicles16:24 Tell the other nations that he is very great. Tell all of them about the great things that he has done. 
1Chronicles16:25 Yes, the Lord is great! Everyone should praise him, as he deserves. People should respect him with fear, more than all other gods." 
1Chronicles16:26 All the other nations' gods are useless idols. But the Lord made the heavens. 
1Chronicles16:27 We see that he is a very great king. Strength and joy are in his home. 
1Chronicles16:28 You people of other nations, recognize that the Lord is great and powerful." 
1Chronicles16:29 Agree that the Lord 's name is great. Bring a gift to offer to him in his temple. Worship the Lord, who is beautiful and holy." 
1Chronicles16:30 Everyone on earth must shake with fear in front of him. He has fixed the world in its place, so that nothing can shake it." 
1Chronicles16:31 The earth and the sky should be happy! The people of all nations should say, ‘The Lord rules as king!’" 
1Chronicles16:32 The sea and everything in it should shout aloud! The fields and all their crops should shout with joy! 
1Chronicles16:33 Then all the trees in the forests will also sing, because they are so happy. They will be happy because the Lord is coming to judge the earth." 
1Chronicles16:34 Thank the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love will always be with us." 
1Chronicles16:35 Say to him, ‘God, you are the one who rescues us! Please save us now! Bring us safely home from among the other nations. Then we will thank you! We will shout aloud to praise your holy name.’" 
1Chronicles16:36 Praise the Lord, Israel's God, as he deserves! Praise him now and for ever! Then all the people said, ‘ Amen! We agree! Praise the Lord!’" 
1Chronicles16:37 King David had chosen Asaph and his relatives to serve the Lord at the Covenant Box. They must do that each day, as the rules said that they should do." 
1Chronicles16:38 They included Obed-Edom and 68 men from his clan. Jeduthun's son, Obed-Edom and Hosah were guards at the entrance of the tent." 
1Chronicles16:39 Zadok and the other priests served the Lord at the tabernacle in Gibeon. That was still the place where the Israelites worshipped God. 
1Chronicles16:40 Their job was to offer burnt offerings as sacrifices to the Lord on the big altar there. They did that every morning and every evening, as the Law of the Lord commanded. The Israelites had to obey that law." 
1Chronicles16:41 Heman and Jeduthun were with them at the tabernacle in Gibeon. There were also other Levites that David had chosen to help them. Their special job was to give thanks to the Lord with songs, because his faithful love continues for ever." 
1Chronicles16:42 Heman and Jeduthun also had authority for the trumpets, the cymbals and the other musical instruments. The musicians used them to praise God with their music. Jeduthun's sons stood as guards at the entrance of the tabernacle." 
1Chronicles16:43 After that, all the people left to return to their homes. David also went home to ask God to bless his family." 
1Chronicles17:1 King David was living in his palace. One day, he said to Nathan the prophet, ‘Now I am living in a beautiful palace that is made of cedar wood. But the Lord 's Covenant Box is still in a tent.’" 
1Chronicles17:2 Nathan replied to David, ‘Do what you think is right. God will help you.’" 
1Chronicles17:3 But that night God said to Nathan," 
1Chronicles17:4 ‘Go and tell my servant David, “The Lord says this: You are not the right man to build a house for me to live in." 
1Chronicles17:5 From the time that I brought the Israelites safely out of Egypt until now, I have never lived in a house. I have lived in a tent as my home as I travelled from place to place." 
1Chronicles17:6 I have moved about to many different places with the Israelites. I chose leaders to take care of my people, like shepherds take care of their sheep. But I never said to any of them, ‘You should have built a beautiful house of cedar wood for me.’ ”" 
1Chronicles17:7 So tell my servant David that the Lord Almighty says this: “I took you from the fields where you were taking care of sheep. I took you from there to become the ruler of my people Israel. 
1Chronicles17:8 I have been with you everywhere that you have gone. I destroyed all your enemies that were attacking you. Now I will make you famous. Your name will be as great as the names of the earth's greatest men. 
1Chronicles17:9 I have chosen a place where my people Israel will live. I have put them in that place, were they can be safe. They will not be afraid of trouble from any enemy. Wicked people will not hurt them any more. That happened in the past," 
1Chronicles17:10 from the time that I chose leaders to rule my people Israel. But now I will cause all your enemies to be weak. I say to you, David: the Lord will give you descendants who will rule as kings after you. That will be the royal house that I build for you." 
1Chronicles17:11 When you die, people will bury you in the grave of your ancestors. Then I will choose your descendant, one of your own sons, to become king. I will make his kingdom strong." 
1Chronicles17:12 He is the man who will build a house for me. And I will cause his descendants to rule as kings for ever. 
1Chronicles17:13 I will be his father and he will be my son. I will never remove my faithful love from him, as I took it away from the king who ruled before you." 
1Chronicles17:14 I will cause him to rule my people and my kingdom for ever. Someone from his family will always be king.” ’ 
1Chronicles17:15 Nathan told David the whole message that the Lord had shown to him. 
1Chronicles17:16 Then King David went into the Lord 's tent. He sat down and he prayed to the Lord. He said, ‘ Lord, my God, I am not a special person and my family is not special. You have helped me very much and I do not deserve it." 
1Chronicles17:17 And you have done more than that, my God. You have made a promise about the descendants of my family in the future. You, Lord God, have spoken to me as if I am a very important man." 
1Chronicles17:18 I am your servant and you know me completely. You have given great honour to me. There is nothing more that I can say. 
1Chronicles17:19 Lord, you have chosen to do all these great things for me, your servant. You are telling me what you have promised to do." 
1Chronicles17:20 There is nobody like you, Lord. You alone are God. What we have heard about you is true!" 
1Chronicles17:21 There is no other nation on earth like your people, Israel. We are the nation that you rescued so that we would belong to you. You did that to show that your name is great. You did great miracles as you rescued your people from Egypt. You chased out the nations who wanted to stop them." 
1Chronicles17:22 You chose Israel to be your own people for all time. You, Lord became our God." 
1Chronicles17:23 Lord, please do the things that you have promised to do for me, your servant, and for my family. Continue to do for ever what you have promised to do," 
1Chronicles17:24 so that people see your promises are true. Then people will always give honour to your great name. They will say, “The Lord Almighty is Israel's God.” And David's descendants will continue to serve you as kings." 
1Chronicles17:25 My God, you have made this promise to me, your servant. You have said that I will always have descendants who will rule. That is the house that you will build for me. Because you have said that, I was not afraid to pray to you." 
1Chronicles17:26 Lord, you are the true God! You have promised these good things to me, your servant." 
1Chronicles17:27 Now please bless my family and my descendants. Then we will serve you faithfully for ever. Yes, Lord, you have blessed my descendants, and I know that you will continue to bless them for ever.’" 
1Chronicles18:1 After some time, David attacked the Philistines and he won against them. He took Gath city and the villages around it from the Philistines." 
1Chronicles18:2 David also won a battle against the Moabites. They were now under David's authority and they paid taxes to him. 
1Chronicles18:3 David also won a battle against Hadadezer, king of Zobah. He won land as far as Hamath. That happened when Hadadezer took his army to the Euphrates River to show that he had authority there." 
1Chronicles18:4 David took from Hadadezer 1,000 chariots and 7,000 men who drove them. He also caught 20,000 of Hadadezer's other soldiers. David kept 100 horses that pulled chariots. But he cut the legs of the other horses so that they could not run." 
1Chronicles18:5 The Syrians from Damascus sent an army to help King Hadadezer of Zobah. But David killed 22,000 soldiers of the Syrian army." 
1Chronicles18:6 David put some of his soldiers in Damascus to keep his authority over the Syrian people. They had to pay taxes to King David. The Lord helped David to win all the battles that he fought. 
1Chronicles18:7 David took the gold shields that Hadadezer's officers had carried. He brought the shields to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles18:8 David also took a lot of bronze things from Tebah and Cun. Those towns had belonged to Hadadezer towns. Later, Solomon used that bronze to make the big bath in the temple that was called ‘the Sea’. He also used the bronze to make pillars and other things for the temple." 
1Chronicles18:9 Tou, the king of Hamath, heard news that David had won the battle against the whole army of King Hadadezer of Zobah." 
1Chronicles18:10 There had been a war between King Hadadezer and King Tou. So Tou sent his son, Hadoram, to say ‘hello’ to King David. He wanted to praise David because he had won the battle against King Hadadezer. He also sent many gifts of gold, silver and bronze to David." 
1Chronicles18:11 King David took those gifts and he offered them to the Lord. He also offered to the Lord all the silver and gold things that he had taken from other nations. Those nations were Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines and the Amalekites." 
1Chronicles18:12 Zeruiah's son Abishai killed 18,000 men from Edom in the Valley of Salt." 
1Chronicles18:13 He put groups of his soldiers in Edom, so that David had authority over all the Edomites. The Lord helped David to win all the battles that he fought." 
1Chronicles18:14 David ruled over all Israel. He did everything that was right and fair for all his people. 
1Chronicles18:15 Zeruiah's son Joab was the leader of Israel's army. Ahilud's son Jehoshaphat wrote down the important things that happened. 
1Chronicles18:16 Ahitub's son Zadok and Abiathar's son Ahimelech were priests. Shavsha was David's secretary. 
1Chronicles18:17 Jehoiada's son Benaiah was the leader of David's personal guards. David's sons were his most important officers. 
1Chronicles19:1 After some time, Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, died. His son became the new king." 
1Chronicles19:2 David thought, ‘Nahash was kind to me, so I will be kind to his son Hanun.’ So David sent some of his officers to give a message to Hanun. David wanted to tell Hanun that he was sorry that his father Nahash had died. David's officers took his kind message to the land of the Ammonites." 
1Chronicles19:3 But the leaders of the Ammonites said to Hanun, ‘David has sent his officers to you with a kind message. But do not think that he really wants to give honour to your father. No, he has sent his men to look at our land. They want to see how they can attack our country and take it for themselves.’" 
1Chronicles19:4 So Hanun took hold of David's officers. He cut off their hair. He also cut off the lower half of their clothes up to their hips. Then he sent them away. 
1Chronicles19:5 Some people came to tell David what had happened. His officers were very ashamed. So David sent men to them with a message. King David said, ‘Stay in Jericho city until your beards have grown again. Then you can return here.’" 
1Chronicles19:6 The Ammonites realized that they had caused David to be very angry. So King Hanun and his people made an agreement with the people of Aram-Naharaim, Aram-Maakah and Zobah. The Ammonites sent them about 34,000 kilograms of silver to get their help with chariots and their drivers." 
1Chronicles19:7 They had 32,000 chariots to use in the battle. They also received help from the king of Maakah and his army. All these men made their camp near Medeba. At the same time King Hanun had brought together the Ammonite soldiers from their towns. They were all ready to fight." 
1Chronicles19:8 David heard news about this. So he sent Joab with all the soldiers in his army to fight against them. 
1Chronicles19:9 The Ammonite soldiers marched out from their city. They stood at the entrance of their city and they were ready to fight. The other kings and their soldiers stayed in the fields near the city. 
1Chronicles19:10 Joab saw that there were two groups of the enemy's soldiers. They were ready to attack his army from different sides. So he chose some of Israel's best soldiers. Joab himself led them to attack the Syrian soldiers in the fields. 
1Chronicles19:11 He told his brother Abishai to lead the rest of Israel's army to fight against the Ammonites. 
1Chronicles19:12 Joab said to Abishai, ‘If the Syrian soldiers are too strong for me, you must come to rescue me. But if the Ammonites are too strong for you, I will come to rescue you." 
1Chronicles19:13 Be strong! We must be brave as we fight on behalf of our people and the cities of our God. The Lord will do what he decides is good.’ 
1Chronicles19:14 Then Joab and his group of soldiers went to fight against the Syrians. As they marched towards them, the Syrian soldiers ran away." 
1Chronicles19:15 The Ammonites saw that the Syrians were running away from Joab. So they also ran away from his brother Abishai's men. They went back into their city. So Joab returned to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles19:16 The Syrian soldiers realized that Israel had won the battle against them. So they sent men with a message for more soldiers to come and help them. More Syrian soldiers came from the other side of the Euphrates River. Shophach, the captain of Hadadezer's army, led them." 
1Chronicles19:17 David heard about what was happening. So he took all Israel's soldiers across the Jordan River. David led his army to attack the Syrian soldiers. The Syrians also prepared to fight. When the battle started," 
1Chronicles19:18 the Syrians ran away from the Israelites. David and his army killed 7,000 Syrians who drove chariots. They killed 40,000 other Syrian soldiers. They also killed Shophach, the captain of the Syrian army." 
1Chronicles19:19 The kings who were under King Hadadezer's authority saw that Israel had won the battle. So they made an agreement with David that they would not fight against Israel any more. They agreed to be under David's authority. After that, the Syrians would no longer agree to help the Ammonites." 
1Chronicles20:1 In the spring, Joab led the Israelite army out to fight. That was the time of year when kings go out to fight battles. Joab and his army attacked the land of the Ammonites and he won against them. He put his soldiers around Rabbah city so that they could attack it. But David had stayed in Jerusalem. Joab attacked Rabbah and he destroyed its buildings." 
1Chronicles20:2 When David came, he took the crown off the Ammonite king's head. The crown was made of gold. It weighed 34 kilograms. There was a valuable jewel fixed on it. David's men then put the crown on David's head. David also took a lot of valuable things from the city." 
1Chronicles20:3 He brought the people out from the city to do hard work for him. He made them cut wood with saws, and use iron tools and axes. He did the same thing to the people of all the other Ammonite cities. Then David and all his army returned to Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles20:4 Some time after that, the Israelites fought a battle against the Philistines at Gezer. In that battle, Sibbekai from Hushah killed Sippai. Sippai was a descendant of Rapha. So Israel won against the Philistines." 
1Chronicles20:5 In another battle against the Philistines, Jair's son Elhanan killed Lahmi. Lahmi was the brother of Goliath who came from Gath. He had a spear that was very thick and heavy, like a big tree." 
1Chronicles20:6 There was another battle at Gath. Another descendant of Rapha fought against the Israelites there. He was a very large man. He had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. 
1Chronicles20:7 He shouted to insult the Israelite soldiers. So Jonathan, the son of David's brother Shimea, killed him." 
1Chronicles20:8 Those Philistines were descendants of Rapha and they lived in Gath. David and his soldiers killed all of them. 
1Chronicles21:1 Then Satan caused David to bring trouble to Israel. He caused David to count all the men in Israel. 
1Chronicles21:2 So David said to Joab and to the officers in his army, ‘Go and count the men everywhere in Israel, from Beersheba to Dan. Then come and give me a report. I want to know how many men there are.’" 
1Chronicles21:3 But Joab replied, ‘I pray that the Lord will make your army grow 100 times bigger! All your men are your faithful servants, my lord the king. But why do you want to do this? You will cause all Israel to become guilty.’" 
1Chronicles21:4 But Joab had to obey the king's command. So Joab left. He went through all Israel and then he returned to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles21:5 Joab reported to David about the number of soldiers who could fight. There were 1,100,000 men in all Israel who could fight with swords. There were 470,000 men in Judah who could fight with swords." 
1Chronicles21:6 But the king's command had seemed disgusting to Joab. So he did not count the men from the tribes of Levi and Benjamin. 
1Chronicles21:7 God was also angry because David had done this thing. So he decided to punish Israel. 
1Chronicles21:8 Then David said to God, ‘What I have done was a bad sin. Please forgive me. I have done a foolish thing.’" 
1Chronicles21:9 Gad was David's prophet. The Lord said to him," 
1Chronicles21:10 ‘Go and give my message to David: “There are three ways that I could punish you. You must choose one of them, and that is what I will do to punish you.” ’" 
1Chronicles21:11 So Gad went to David and he said to him, ‘This is what the Lord says: “You must choose one of these punishments." 
1Chronicles21:12 You may choose to have three years when there will be a famine. Or you may choose to have three months when you have to run away from your enemies' swords so that they do not kill you. Or you may choose to have three days when a very bad disease comes to your people. The angel of the would kill many people in every part of Israel.” Now decide which punishment you will choose. I will take your answer to God, who sent me with this message.’" 
1Chronicles21:13 David said to Gad, ‘I am very upset. I do not want men to punish me. The Lord is kind and he forgives people. So it is better if he punishes me.’" 
1Chronicles21:14 So the Lord caused a very bad disease to kill people in Israel. 70,000 Israelite men died." 
1Chronicles21:15 God sent his angel to destroy Jerusalem. But as the angel started to kill people, the Lord saw what was happening. He decided to stop the punishment that he was causing. He said to the angel who was killing the people, ‘That is enough. Stop what you are doing!’ When the Lord said that, his angel was standing near the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite." 
1Chronicles21:16 David looked up and he saw the Lord 's angel. The angel was standing between the earth and the sky. He had his sword in his hand and it was pointing towards Jerusalem. David and the leaders fell down with their faces towards the ground. They were wearing clothes that were made of sackcloth. 
1Chronicles21:17 David said to God, ‘I am the person who has done an evil thing. I told Joab to count the number of men in my army. These people have followed me like sheep that follow a shepherd. They have not done anything wrong. Lord my God, you should only punish me and my family. But please take this disease away from your people.’" 
1Chronicles21:18 Then the angel of the Lord said to Gad, ‘Tell David to go up to the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite. Build an altar there to worship the Lord.’" 
1Chronicles21:19 So David obeyed the Lord 's message that Gad had spoken to him. 
1Chronicles21:20 Araunah and his four sons were threshing wheat. Araunah turned around and he saw the Lord 's angel. His sons hid themselves. 
1Chronicles21:21 Then David came to meet Araunah. When Araunah saw David, he came out from the threshing floor. He bent down low in front of David, with his face towards the ground." 
1Chronicles21:22 David said to Araunah, ‘Let me buy this threshing floor from you. I want to build an altar here to worship the Lord. Then he will stop this bad disease from killing the people. I will pay you the whole price for the land.’" 
1Chronicles21:23 Araunah replied, ‘My lord the king, please take it for yourself. You may do what you would like to do. Look, I will give you the bulls for the burnt offerings. You can use the wood from these tools for the fire. Take my wheat to make an offering to the Lord. I will give all these things to you.’" 
1Chronicles21:24 But King David said to Araunah, ‘No, I must pay you the whole price. I cannot offer something that belongs to you as a sacrifice to the Lord. I cannot offer to him a burnt offering that has cost me nothing.’" 
1Chronicles21:25 So David paid Araunah 600 gold coins to buy the place. 
1Chronicles21:26 Then he built an altar there to worship the Lord. He offered burnt offerings and friendship offerings on it. He prayed to the Lord and the Lord answered him. The Lord sent fire from the sky to burn up the sacrifice on the altar. 
1Chronicles21:27 Then the Lord told the angel to put his sword away into its pocket. 
1Chronicles21:28 David saw that the Lord had answered his prayer at the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite. So he offered sacrifices to God there. 
1Chronicles21:29 At that time the Lord 's tabernacle was at Gibeon, where the Israelites worshipped God. The tabernacle was the special tent that Moses had made in the wilderness. The altar for burnt offerings was also at Gibeon." 
1Chronicles21:30 But David was not able to go there to meet with the Lord, because he was afraid of the sword of the Lord 's angel." 
1Chronicles22:1 Then David said, ‘This is the place where the temple of the Lord God will be. The altar for Israel's burnt offerings will also be here.’" 
1Chronicles22:2 So David told his officers to bring together all the foreign men who lived in Israel. He chose some of them to cut the stones to build God's house. They would cut the stones to have the right shape. 
1Chronicles22:3 He supplied a lot of iron to make things for the temple. That was for nails and bars to fix the doors at the entrances. He also supplied more bronze than they could weigh. 
1Chronicles22:4 The people from Tyre and Sidon had brought a lot of cedar wood to David. So he provided for the temple more pieces of cedar wood than anyone could count. 
1Chronicles22:5 David said, ‘The Lord 's temple must be great and beautiful. It must be famous, so that the people of every nation see how great it is. My son Solomon is young and he has no special skills. So I must prepare everything for him to build the temple.’ So before David died, he prepared all these things." 
1Chronicles22:6 David called his son, Solomon, to come to him. He told him that he must build a temple for the Lord, Israel's God." 
1Chronicles22:7 He said to Solomon, ‘My son, I really wanted to build a house for the Lord my God, to give honour to him." 
1Chronicles22:8 But the Lord said to me, “You have killed many people in the battles that you have fought. So you yourself will not build a house to give me honour. I have seen all the blood of the people that you have killed." 
1Chronicles22:9 But you will have a son who will be a man who lives in peace. I will cause all his enemies to leave him in peace. Yes, his name will be Solomon. While he is king, I will cause Israel to enjoy peace. I will keep them safe from their enemies." 
1Chronicles22:10 He will build a temple to give honour to my name. He will become my son and I will become his father. I will give him descendants to rule Israel as kings for ever.” 
1Chronicles22:11 So, my son, I pray that the Lord will be with you. He will do what he has promised. He will help you to build a temple for the Lord your God." 
1Chronicles22:12 I also pray that the Lord will make you wise so that you understand things properly. I pray that you will obey the Law of the Lord your God as you rule over Israel. 
1Chronicles22:13 You will be successful, if you carefully obey the Lord 's commands and rules. Those are the laws that the Lord gave to Moses for Israel. Be strong! Be brave! Do not be afraid, but continue to be strong!" 
1Chronicles22:14 Look! I have been careful to prepare the things that you will need to build the Lord 's temple. I have got 4,000 tons of gold and 40,000 tons of silver. I have more bronze and iron than anyone can weigh. I have plenty of wood and stone. You will need to get even more than this." 
1Chronicles22:15 You have many workers with special skills. Some know how to cut stone. Others know how to build with stones or with wood. There are men who have skills to make many different kinds of things. 
1Chronicles22:16 They can use gold, silver, bronze and iron to make things. You have more workers than you can count! So now you must start the work! I pray that the Lord will be with you to help you.’" 
1Chronicles22:17 Then David sent messages to all the leaders in Israel. He commanded them to help his son Solomon. 
1Chronicles22:18 He said to them, ‘You know that the Lord your God is with you. He has kept you safe from all your enemies. He has put the people who live in this region under my authority. So now the Lord and his people rule over all those nations." 
1Chronicles22:19 So you must serve the Lord your God with all that you are. Start the work! Begin to build the Lord God's holy place. Then you can put the Lord 's Covenant Box there, as well as the other holy things. You will put them in the temple that you have built to give honour to the Lord 's name.’" 
1Chronicles23:1 David was old and his life had nearly finished. He chose his son Solomon to rule over Israel as king. 
1Chronicles23:2 He brought together all Israel's leaders, as well as the priests and the Levites." 
1Chronicles23:3 His officers counted all the Levites who were 30 years old or older. There were 38,000 men." 
1Chronicles23:4 David said, ‘24,000 of these Levite men must have authority for the work of the Lord 's temple. 6,000 of them will be officers and judges." 
1Chronicles23:5 4,000 of them will be guards at the gates of the temple. 4,000 of them will use music to praise the Lord. They will use the musical instruments that I have provided for them.’" 
1Chronicles23:6 David made the Levites into three separate groups. Each group had descendants from one of Levi's sons: Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
1Chronicles23:7 From Gershon's clan there were Ladan and Shimei. 
1Chronicles23:8 Ladan's three sons were: Jehiel, the firstborn, then Zetham and Joel." 
1Chronicles23:8 Ladan's three sons were: Jehiel, the firstborn, then Zetham and Joel." 
1Chronicles23:9 Shimei's three sons were: Shelomoth, Haziel and Haran. Those men were the leaders of Ladan's family." 
1Chronicles23:10 Shimei had four more sons: Jahath, Ziza, Jeush and Beriah." 
1Chronicles23:11 Jahath was the oldest son and Ziza was the second. But Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons. So the officers counted them together as one family. 
1Chronicles23:12 Kohath's four sons were: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles23:13 Amram's sons were Aaron and Moses. The Lord chose Aaron and his descendants for special work for all time. Their work was to offer special holy things to the Lord. They would offer sacrifices to the Lord. They would serve him in the temple. And they would use his name to bless the people. 
1Chronicles23:14 The tribe of Levi included the sons of Moses, God's servant." 
1Chronicles23:15 Moses' sons were Gershom and Eliezer. 
1Chronicles23:16 Gershom's oldest son was Shebuel. 
1Chronicles23:17 Eliezer's son was Rehabiah. He was the leader of the family. Eliezer had no other sons, but Rehabiah had many descendants." 
1Chronicles23:18 From the family of Kohath's second son Izhar, Shelomith was the leader." 
1Chronicles23:19 Hebron had four sons: Jeriah was the leader, Amariah was second, Jahaziel was third and Jekameam was fourth." 
1Chronicles23:20 Uzziel had two sons: Micah was the leader and Isshiah was second. 
1Chronicles23:20 Uzziel had two sons: Micah was the leader and Isshiah was second. 
1Chronicles23:21 Merari's sons were Mahli and Mushi. Mahli's sons were Eleazar and Kish. 
1Chronicles23:22 Eleazar died without any sons. He had only daughters. Kish's sons, who were their cousins, married them." 
1Chronicles23:23 Mushi's three sons were: Mahli, Eder and Jeremoth." 
1Chronicles23:24 Those were the leaders of the Levites' clans, family by family. The Israelites carefully recorded the names of all the men who were 20 years old or older. From that age, they each had their work to do in the Lord 's temple." 
1Chronicles23:25 David had said, ‘Now the Lord, Israel's God, has given rest to his people. He has his home in Jerusalem for all time." 
1Chronicles23:26 So the Levites no longer need to carry the tabernacle to different places. They do not need to carry all the things that are used to serve God.’ 
1Chronicles23:27 So David counted the Levites who were 20 years old or older and could work in the temple. Those were David's last words before he died. 
1Chronicles23:28 The Levites' work was to help Aaron's descendants as they served the Lord in his temple. They took care of the temple's yards and its small rooms. They made the Lord 's special things clean and holy. They did the work that was necessary to serve God in his temple. 
1Chronicles23:29 They took care of the special bread for the table in the holy place. They kept the flour for the grain offerings, for the flat bread that they made without yeast and for the special cakes. They weighed and they measured all the things for the bread and the cakes." 
1Chronicles23:30 Every morning they stood in their places to thank the Lord and to praise him. They did the same thing every evening. 
1Chronicles23:31 They also did that when the priests offered burnt offerings to the Lord. That happened on Sabbath days, at New Moon festivals and on other special days. The correct number of Levites must be there to serve the Lord at all times, as the rules commanded." 
1Chronicles23:32 In that way, the Levites had authority to take care of the special tent and the holy place. They helped their relatives, Aaron's descendants, as they served the Lord in his temple." 
1Chronicles24:1 Aaron's descendants, the priests, were in the following groups. Aaron's four sons were: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
1Chronicles24:2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father died. They had no sons. So Eleazar and Ithamar served God as priests. 
1Chronicles24:3 Zadok and Ahimelech helped David to put Aaron's descendants into groups. Zadok was a descendant of Eleazar. Ahimelech was a descendant of Ithamar. They told each group what their work would be to serve God. 
1Chronicles24:4 There were more leaders among Eleazar's descendants than among Ithamar's descendants. So from Eleazar's descendants, there were 16 groups with their leaders. From Ithamar's descendants there were eight groups with their leaders." 
1Chronicles24:5 They used lots to decide the work of each group. The families of both Eleazar and Ithamar included officers for the temple as well as priests. 
1Chronicles24:6 Shemaiah was the secretary who wrote down the names in each group. He was the son of Nethanel, a Levite. Shemaiah wrote down the names while the king and his officers watched. Zadok the priest, Abiathar's son Ahimelech and the leaders of the priests' clans and of the other Levite clans were also watching. When they threw the lots, they would choose a family from Eleazar's descendants, then a family from Ithamar's descendants, and so on." 
1Chronicles24:7 This is the list of the group leaders as they chose them, one by one:" 
1Chronicles24:8 1. Jehoiarib 2. Jedaiah 3. Harim 4. Seorim 5. Malkijah 6. Mijamin 7. Hakkoz 8. Abijah 9. Jeshua 10. Shecaniah 11. Eliashib 12. Jakim 13. Huppah 14. Jeshebeab 15. Bilgah 16. Immer 17. Hezir 18. Happizzez 19. Pethahiah 20. Jehezkel 21. Jakin 22. Gamul 23. Delaiah 24. Maaziah. 
1Chronicles24:9 Each of these leaders, with their group, had their jobs to do in the temple. They had to obey the rules that their ancestor Aaron had given. The Lord, Israel's God, had told him what they must do." 
1Chronicles24:10 The leaders of the other Levite families included: Shubael, from Amram's descendants. Jehdeiah, from Shubael's descendants." 
1Chronicles24:11 From Rehabiah's descendants: Isshiah, the firstborn son." 
1Chronicles24:12 From Izhar's descendants: Shelomoth. From Shelomoth's descendants: Jahath. 
1Chronicles24:13 Hebron's four sons were: Jeriah, the firstborn son, then Amariah, the second son, Jahaziel, the third son, and Jekameam, the fourth son." 
1Chronicles24:14 Uzziel's son Micah and his son Shamir. 
1Chronicles24:14 Uzziel's son Micah and his son Shamir. 
1Chronicles24:15 Micah's brother Isshiah and his son Zechariah. 
1Chronicles24:15 Micah's brother Isshiah and his son Zechariah. 
1Chronicles24:15 Micah's brother Isshiah and his son Zechariah. 
1Chronicles24:16 Merari's sons were: Mahli, Mushi and Jaaziah." 
1Chronicles24:17 Merari's descendants by his son Jaaziah were: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur and Ibri." 
1Chronicles24:18 Mahli's son Eleazar had no sons. 
1Chronicles24:19 Kish's son was Jerahmeel. 
1Chronicles24:20 Mushi's sons were: Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth. That is the list of the Levites, with the leaders of each family." 
1Chronicles24:21 They also used lots to choose their different jobs, as their relatives, Aaron's descendants, had done. King David, Zadok, Ahimelech and the family leaders of the priests and the other Levites watched them. They chose work for the family leaders in the same way that they did for their younger brothers." 
1Chronicles25:1 David and the army officers chose some Levites to serve God as musicians. They belonged to the families of Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun. They chose these men to speak messages from God while they made music with harps, lyres and cymbals. Here is a list of the men that they chose for this work:" 
1Chronicles25:2 From Asaph's sons, there were: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah and Asarelah. Asaph had authority over their work. He would speak a message from God when the king told him to do that." 
1Chronicles25:3 From Jeduthun's sons, there were six musicians: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah and Mattithiah. Their father Jeduthun had authority over their work. He spoke messages from God while he made music with a harp. He also sang to thank the Lord and to praise him." 
1Chronicles25:4 From Heman's sons, there were: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir and Mahazioth." 
1Chronicles25:5 All those men were sons of Heman, the king's prophet. God had promised to give Heman many children who would give him honour. God gave him 14 sons and three daughters." 
1Chronicles25:6 All these musicians were under the authority of their fathers. They used cymbals, harps and lyres to make music to worship the Lord in his temple. The king had authority over Asaph, Jeduthun and Heman." 
1Chronicles25:7 All those men had skills to make good music, as well as their relatives. There were 288 Levites who served the Lord as musicians." 
1Chronicles25:8 They used lots to decide the right work for each musician. They chose work for everyone in the same way: the young men and the older men, the teachers and the students." 
1Chronicles26:1 These are the groups of guards for the entrances of the temple: From Korah's descendants there was Kore's son Meshelemiah, who was a descendant of Asaph." 
1Chronicles26:2 Meshelemiah's seven sons were: Zechariah (his firstborn son), then Jediael (his second son), Zebadiah (his third son), Jathniel (his fourth son)," 
1Chronicles26:2 Meshelemiah's seven sons were: Zechariah (his firstborn son), then Jediael (his second son), Zebadiah (his third son), Jathniel (his fourth son)," 
1Chronicles26:3 Elam (his fifth son), Jehohanan (his sixth son) and Eliehoenai (his seventh son)." 
1Chronicles26:4 Obed-Edom's sons were: Shemaiah (his firstborn son), Jehozabad (his second son), Joah (his third son), Sachar (his fourth son), Nethanel (his fifth son)," 
1Chronicles26:5 Ammiel (his sixth son), Issachar (his seventh son) and Peullethai (his eighth son). God blessed Obed-Edom with those eight sons." 
1Chronicles26:6 Obed-Edom's son Shemaiah had four sons. They were called Othni, Rephael, Obed and Elzabad. They were leaders in their clan, because they were brave men. People respected them very much. People also respected their relatives, Elihu and Semakiah." 
1Chronicles26:7  
1Chronicles26:8 There were 62 descendants of Obed-Edom. People respected them, as well as their sons and their relatives. They could all do their work well." 
1Chronicles26:9 Meshelemiah had 18 sons and relatives. People respected them as men who could work well. 
1Chronicles26:10 From Merari's descendants there was Hosah. He had four sons: Shimri was his firstborn son. His father chose him to be the leader among his sons, but he was not the oldest of them." 
1Chronicles26:11 Hilkiah was Hosah's second son, Tebaliah was his third son and Zechariah was his fourth son. 13 men from among Hosah's sons and relatives worked as guards for the temple." 
1Chronicles26:11 Hilkiah was Hosah's second son, Tebaliah was his third son and Zechariah was his fourth son. 13 men from among Hosah's sons and relatives worked as guards for the temple." 
1Chronicles26:12 Each group of guards had a leader. Like the other Levites, each group had a job to do as they served the Lord in his temple." 
1Chronicles26:13 They used lots to decide which family group would be the guards for each gate of the temple. They chose the jobs for everyone in the same way, important people and ordinary people." 
1Chronicles26:14 They chose Shelemiah's group to be guards for the East gate. They chose his son Zechariah's group for the North gate. Zechariah was a wise man who gave good advice. 
1Chronicles26:14 They chose Shelemiah's group to be guards for the East gate. They chose his son Zechariah's group for the North gate. Zechariah was a wise man who gave good advice. 
1Chronicles26:15 They chose Obed-Edom's group to be guards at the South gate. They chose his sons to be guards for the rooms where they kept valuable things. 
1Chronicles26:16 They chose Shuppim's group and Hosah's group to be guards at the West gate, as well as the Shalleketh Gate on the higher road. They chose the times for each group of guards to work each day." 
1Chronicles26:17 Six Levites watched the east side of the temple. Four men watched the north side and four men watched the south side. Two guards worked together at each room where they kept valuable things. 
1Chronicles26:18 There were four guards on the road near the yard at the west side of the temple. And there were two guards in the yard. 
1Chronicles26:19 That was the work of the different groups of guards who were descendants of Korah and Merari. 
1Chronicles26:20 Other Levites kept the valuable things in the temple safe. That included the money and the gifts that people had offered to God. 
1Chronicles26:21 One group of these men were descendants of Ladan, who belonged to Gershon's clan. These were the leaders of those families: Jehieli," 
1Chronicles26:22 and his sons, Zetham and Joel (his younger brother). They had authority for the rooms where they kept the money and other valuable things in the Lord 's temple." 
1Chronicles26:22 and his sons, Zetham and Joel (his younger brother). They had authority for the rooms where they kept the money and other valuable things in the Lord 's temple." 
1Chronicles26:23 The other guards for those rooms were descendants of Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles26:24 Shebuel was a descendant of Moses' son Gershom. He was the leader with authority to keep the money safe. 
1Chronicles26:25 His relatives were descendants of Gershom's brother Eliezer. They were: Eliezer's son Rehabiah, Rehabiah's son Jeshaiah, Jeshaiah's son Joram, Joram's son Zikri, and Zikri's son Shelomoth." 
1Chronicles26:26 Shelomoth and his relatives had authority for all the holy things that people had offered as gifts to God. King David, the leaders of clans and army officers had given those things to God." 
1Chronicles26:27 When the Israelites won battles, they took valuable things from their enemies. They brought some of those things to the Lord 's temple to make it strong." 
1Chronicles26:28 There were also gifts that Samuel the prophet, Kish's son Saul, Ner's son Abner and Zeruiah's son Joab had offered to the Lord. Shelomoth and his relatives had authority to keep safe everything that had been offered to the Lord." 
1Chronicles26:29 There were also descendants of Izhar: Kenaniah and his sons did not work in the temple. Instead they served as judges and officers in different places in Israel. 
1Chronicles26:30 There were descendants of Hebron: Hashabiah and his relatives served as officers on the west side of the Jordan River. There were 1,700 of those men who could work well. They had authority for the work the people did to serve the Lord and the king." 
1Chronicles26:31 Jeriah was the leader among Hebron's descendants. The records of their ancestors showed that this was true. When David had been king for 40 years, people read those records carefully. They realized that there were descendants of Hebron who were living at Jazer in Gilead region. They were men who had good skills." 
1Chronicles26:32 There were 2,700 men from Jeriah's clan who were good leaders in their families. King David chose them to be officers with authority for the tribes of Reuben, Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh. They had authority for all the work that people did to serve the Lord and the king." 
1Chronicles27:1 This is a list of the men from Israel's families who served as soldiers in the army. Some were leaders of their families. Some were officers who led 1,000 soldiers or officers who led 100 soldiers. Other men were officers who served the king in different ways. Each month of the year, a group of 24,000 men served the king as soldiers." 
1Chronicles27:2 Zabdiel's son Jashobeam was the leader of the first group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the first month of each year." 
1Chronicles27:3 Jashobeam was a descendant of Perez. He was leader of all the army officers for the first month. 
1Chronicles27:4 Dodai was the leader of the second group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the second month. Dodai belonged to Ahoah's clan. Mikloth was the leader who helped him." 
1Chronicles27:5 Benaiah was the leader of the third group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the third month. Benaiah was the son of Jehoiada, the priest." 
1Chronicles27:6 Benaiah was the leader of the 30 great soldiers and his whole group. His son was Ammizabad. 
1Chronicles27:7 Asahel was the leader of the fourth group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the fourth month. Asahel was Joab's brother. His son Zebadiah was the leader of the group after him." 
1Chronicles27:8 Shamhuth, from Izrah's clan, was the leader of the fifth group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the fifth month." 
1Chronicles27:9 Ira was the leader of the sixth group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the sixth month. Ira was the son of Ikkesh from Tekoa." 
1Chronicles27:10 Helez was the leader of the seventh group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the seventh month. He belonged to Pelon's clan, in the tribe of Ephraim." 
1Chronicles27:11 Sibbekai was the leader of the eighth group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the eighth month. Sibbekai was a descendant of Zerah, who came from Hushah." 
1Chronicles27:12 Abiezer was the leader of the ninth group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the ninth month. Abiezer came from Anathoth, in the tribe of Benjamin." 
1Chronicles27:13 Maharai was the leader of the tenth group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the tenth month. Maharai was a descendant of Zerah, who came from Netophah." 
1Chronicles27:14 Benaiah was the leader of the 11th group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the 11th month. Benaiah came from Pirathon, in the tribe of Ephraim." 
1Chronicles27:15 Heldai was the leader of the 12th group of 24,000 soldiers. They worked in the 12th month. He was a descendant of Othniel, who came from Netophah." 
1Chronicles27:16 This is a list of the officers who had authority over Israel's tribes: For Reuben: Zikri's son, Eliezer. For Simeon: Maakah's son, Shephatiah." 
1Chronicles27:17 For Levi: Kemuel's son, Hashabiah. Zadok had authority over the descendants of Aaron." 
1Chronicles27:18 For Judah: Elihu, a brother of David. For Issachar: Michael's son, Omri." 
1Chronicles27:19 For Zebulun: Obadiah's son, Ishmaiah. For Naphtali: Azriel's son, Jerimoth." 
1Chronicles27:19 For Zebulun: Obadiah's son, Ishmaiah. For Naphtali: Azriel's son, Jerimoth." 
1Chronicles27:20 For Ephraim Hoshea's son, Azaziah. For the half tribe of Manasseh in the west: Pedaiah's son, Joel." 
1Chronicles27:20 For Ephraim Hoshea's son, Azaziah. For the half tribe of Manasseh in the west: Pedaiah's son, Joel." 
1Chronicles27:21 For the half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Zechariah's son, Iddo. For Benjamin: Abner's son, Jaasiel." 
1Chronicles27:21 For the half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Zechariah's son, Iddo. For Benjamin: Abner's son, Jaasiel." 
1Chronicles27:22 For Dan: Jeroham's son, Azarel. Those were the officers who led the tribes of Israel." 
1Chronicles27:23 The Lord had promised to make Israel a nation with as many people as there are stars in the sky. So King David did not count the men who were less than 20 years old. 
1Chronicles27:24 Zeruiah's son Joab had begun to count the men. He did not finish counting them because the Lord started to punish Israel. So nobody wrote the number in the history book about King David's life. 
1Chronicles27:25 Adiel's son Azmaveth had authority over the places in the palace where the king stored his valuable things. Uzziah's son Jonathan had authority over the places in the different regions of Israel where the king stored his things. Those places were in towns, in villages and in strong towers." 
1Chronicles27:26 Kelub's son Ezri had authority over the men who worked in the king's fields. 
1Chronicles27:27 Shimei from Ramah had authority over the men who worked in the king's vineyards. Zabdi from Shepham had authority over the men who stored wine in the vineyards. 
1Chronicles27:28 Baal-Hanan from Geder had authority over the trees in the low hills in the west. They were olive trees and fig trees. Joash had authority over the places where they stored the olive oil. 
1Chronicles27:29 Shitrai from Sharon had authority to take care of the king's cows that were in Sharon. Adlai's son Shaphat had authority to take care of the king's cows that were in the valleys. 
1Chronicles27:30 Obil, a descendant of Ishmael, had authority for the king's camels. Jehdeiah from Meronoth had authority for the donkeys." 
1Chronicles27:31 Jaziz, a descendant of Hagar, had authority to take care of the king's sheep and goats. These were the officers who had authority to take care of King David's things." 
1Chronicles27:32 David's uncle, Jonathan, was a wise man who gave good advice. He wrote down records. Hakmoni's son Jehiel taught the king's sons." 
1Chronicles27:33 Ahithophel was the king's advisor, and Hushai, from Arki, was also the king's friend." 
1Chronicles27:34 After Ahithophel died, Benaiah's son Jehoiada became the king's advisor. After him, Abiathar became his advisor. Joab was the captain who led the king's army." 
1Chronicles28:1 David told all Israel's officers to come and meet with him in Jerusalem. They included: The officers who had authority over Israel's tribes. The leaders of the army groups that served the king. The army officers who led groups of 1,000 soldiers or 100 soldiers. The officers who had authority for the king's valuable things and animals. The officers who had authority for the animals and things that belonged to the king's sons. The officers in the king's palace. The brave army officers and soldiers." 
1Chronicles28:2 King David stood up and he said, ‘Listen to me, my people. I wanted to build a house where we could put the Lord 's Covenant Box. It would be like a place for our God to rest his feet. I prepared the things that I would need to build a temple." 
1Chronicles28:3 But God said to me, “You are a fighter and you have killed many people in war. So you must not build a house to give honour to my name.” " 
1Chronicles28:4 But it was the Lord, Israel's God, who chose me to become Israel's king. He chose my family to rule Israel for all time. First, he chose the tribe of Judah to be the leader of Israel's people. Then he chose my father's family from among the clans of Judah. Finally, he chose me from among my father's sons. He made me king to rule over all Israel." 
1Chronicles28:5 The Lord has given me many sons. Now he has chosen my son Solomon from among them to rule over his kingdom, Israel." 
1Chronicles28:6 The Lord said to me, “Your son Solomon will build my temple and the yards around it. I have chosen him to become my son. And I will become his father." 
1Chronicles28:7 He must always continue to obey my commands and my laws, as he now does. If he is careful to do that, I will make his kingdom strong for all time.”" 
1Chronicles28:8 I am telling you this now, while we meet together as the Lord 's people. All Israel's people, as well as our God, know what I have said. You must be careful to obey all the commands of the Lord your God. Then this good land will continue to be your home. And after you die it will belong to your descendants for ever." 
1Chronicles28:9 As for you, Solomon, my son, keep near to your father's God. Be happy to serve him faithfully in every way. The Lord knows what you are thinking. He understands all your thoughts. If you turn to him, you will find him. But if you turn away from him, he will leave you alone for ever." 
1Chronicles28:10 You must realize that the Lord has chosen you to build a temple to be his special home. Now you must be strong! Do this work.’ 
1Chronicles28:11 Then David gave his son Solomon the plans for the temple buildings. That included the entrance room, the rooms to store things, the upstairs rooms and the inside rooms. And it included the Most Holy Place where the Covenant Box would be." 
1Chronicles28:12 David showed Solomon the ideas that God had put in his mind. He gave him the plans for the yards around the Lord 's temple and the rooms around the yards. There were also plans of the rooms to store the valuable things and the gifts that people had offered to God. 
1Chronicles28:13 David gave Solomon the rules for the work of the priests and Levites. He gave him a list of the different kinds of work that each group must do in the Lord 's temple. He also gave him a list of the special things that were used to serve the Lord in the temple. 
1Chronicles28:14 He told Solomon the weight of gold and the weight of silver that he must use to make some of those special things. 
1Chronicles28:15 That included the weight of gold for the lampstands and for their lamps. It also included the weight of silver for the silver lampstands and for their lamps. Each lampstand was different because they would use it for a different purpose. 
1Chronicles28:16 It included the weight of gold to make the special table where the priests would put the special bread. And it included the weight of silver to make the silver tables. 
1Chronicles28:17 It also included the weight of pure gold to make the forks, dishes, cups and small bowls. Each gold bowl had its own weight. There was also the weight of silver for each of the silver bowls." 
1Chronicles28:18 And there was the weight of pure gold for the altar to burn incense. David also gave Solomon the plan for the gold images of cherubs for the Lord 's Covenant Box. They would have wings that touched each other above the lid of the Covenant Box. They would be like a chariot for the Lord. 
1Chronicles28:19 David said, ‘I have written down everything about these things, as the Lord told me to do. He helped me to understand how these plans would work.’" 
1Chronicles28:20 David said to his son Solomon, ‘Be strong and brave to do this work. The Lord God, my God, is with you to help you. He will not leave you alone. So do not be afraid. He will stay with you until you have finished all the work to build his temple." 
1Chronicles28:21 Look! Here are the groups of priests and Levites who are ready to serve the Lord in the temple. The men with special skills are ready to help you with the work. The officers and all the people are ready to do what you tell them to do.’ 
1Chronicles29:1 Then King David spoke to all the people who were meeting together. He said, ‘God has clearly chosen my son Solomon to do this great work. But he is still young and he has no special skills. It is a very important work for him to build the temple. It will not be a palace for people, but for the Lord God himself!" 
1Chronicles29:2 I have tried to provide the things that he will need to build the temple for my God. They include gold, silver, bronze, iron and wood to make things. I have also given many valuable stones, including onyx, antimony and other jewels, as well as a lot of marble." 
1Chronicles29:3 I want very much to build a beautiful temple for my God. So I have added my own gold and silver to help to build it. I have added that to the other things that I have provided for God's holy temple. 
1Chronicles29:4 I have given 110 tons of the best gold and 260 tons of pure silver to cover the walls of the buildings. 
1Chronicles29:5 Workers with special skills can also use that gold and silver to make beautiful things. So now, who else will make a gift today to serve the Lord?’" 
1Chronicles29:6 Then the Israelite leaders and officers agreed to offer gifts to help the Lord 's work. They included the leaders of clans and the leaders of Israel's tribes, the army officers who led 1,000 men and who led 100 men, and the officers with authority for the king's work." 
1Chronicles29:7 They gave these gifts for God's temple: 190 tons of gold. 10,000 gold coins. 380 tons of silver. 675 tons of bronze. 3,750 tons of iron." 
1Chronicles29:8 People who had valuable stones gave them for the Lord 's house. Jehiel from Gershon's clan stored them in a safe place. 
1Chronicles29:9 The people were very happy that their leaders gave these things. They were pleased to give to help the Lord 's work. King David was also very happy. 
1Chronicles29:10 David praised the Lord in front of all the people who had met together. He said, ‘We praise you, Lord, the God of our ancestor, Israel. You deserve that people praise you for ever!" 
1Chronicles29:11 Lord, you are great, powerful and beautiful! You rule as king over everything in heaven and on earth. Yes, Lord, everything belongs in your kingdom!" 
1Chronicles29:12 You are the one who gives people riches and honour. You rule over everything. You have great strength and power, so you are able to make people strong and famous." 
1Chronicles29:13 So we thank you, our God. We praise your great name!" 
1Chronicles29:14 But I and my people are like nothing. How are we able to give all these gifts to help your work? Everything that we have comes from you. So we are giving back to you things that already belong to you. 
1Chronicles29:15 We are like strangers and foreign people who live in your world. Our ancestors also lived in that way. We live here only for a short time and then we disappear like a shadow. We know that we will die one day. 
1Chronicles29:16 Lord, our God, we have given these things to build a temple for you. We want to give honour to your holy name. But all these valuable things come from you. They already belong to you." 
1Chronicles29:17 My God, I know that you look carefully at our thoughts. You are pleased when we want to do things that are right. And I really do want to offer all these things to you. I know that your people who have met together here are happy. I can see that they are pleased to give these things to you." 
1Chronicles29:18 Lord, you are the God of our ancestors Abraham, Isaac and Israel. Please help us, your people, to continue to obey you. Help us to serve you faithfully." 
1Chronicles29:19 Please help my son Solomon to want to obey you. Help him to obey all your commands, rules and laws. Help him to work well to build your temple. I have prepared the things that he will need to do that.’" 
1Chronicles29:20 Then David spoke to all the people who were meeting there together. He told them, ‘Now praise the Lord, your God!’ So all the people praised the Lord, the God of their ancestors. They bent down low to worship the Lord. They gave honour to the Lord and also to the king." 
1Chronicles29:21 On the next day, they offered sacrifices to the Lord. They made burnt offerings of 1,000 bulls, 1,000 male sheep and 1,000 lambs. They made the proper drink offerings with those sacrifices. They also offered many other sacrifices on behalf of all the Israelites." 
1Chronicles29:22 They ate a big feast to give honour to the Lord and they were very happy. Then they anointed David's son Solomon to be the next king, with the Lord 's blessing. That was the second time that they had chosen him as their king. They also anointed Zadok to be priest." 
1Chronicles29:23 So Solomon sat on the Lord 's throne as king, in his father David's place. Everything went well for him as king. All the people in Israel obeyed him." 
1Chronicles29:24 All King David's officers, his brave soldiers and all of his sons promised to serve King Solomon faithfully." 
1Chronicles29:25 The Lord caused all the people in Israel to respect Solomon as a great king. They gave him much honour, more than any king that had ruled Israel before him." 
1Chronicles29:26 Jesse's son David had ruled over all Israel as king. 
1Chronicles29:27 He had ruled Israel for 40 years. He ruled for seven years in Hebron. Then he ruled for 33 years in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles29:28 He was an old man when he died. During his long life, God gave him riches as well as honour. Then David's son Solomon became king instead of him." 
1Chronicles29:29 The prophets Samuel, Nathan and Gad wrote history books about all the things that King David did. They wrote down everything that he did as king, from the beginning to the end." 
1Chronicles29:30 The books tell us how he ruled with great power. They tell us about the things that happened to him. They also tell us about the things that happened in Israel and in the other kingdoms in that region. 
2Chronicles1:1 David's son Solomon made himself a strong ruler over his kingdom. The Lord his God was with Solomon, so that he became a great king." 
2Chronicles1:2 Solomon called all the people of Israel to come together. They included the army officers who had authority over 1,000 men, and those who had authority over 100 men. They also included the judges, the leaders in Israel and the leaders of families." 
2Chronicles1:3 Then Solomon went with all those people to Gibeon town to worship God. The special tent that the Lord 's servant Moses had made in the desert was there. It was the tent where God met with his people. 
2Chronicles1:4 Before that, King David had brought God's Covenant Box from Kiriath-Jearim to Jerusalem. He had prepared a place for it in a tent there." 
2Chronicles1:5 But the bronze altar that Bezalel had made was in Gibeon, in front of the Lord 's tent. (Bezalel was the son of Uri, and the grandson of Hur.) So Solomon and the people went to meet the Lord there in Gibeon." 
2Chronicles1:6 Solomon went up to the bronze altar which was in front of the Lord 's special tent. He offered 1,000 burnt offerings on the altar to the Lord." 
2Chronicles1:7 That night, God showed himself to Solomon. God said, ‘Ask me to give you whatever you want.’" 
2Chronicles1:8 Solomon answered God, ‘You always showed your faithful love to my father David. Now you have chosen me to be king after him." 
2Chronicles1:9 Now, Lord God, please do as you promised to my father David. You have chosen me to rule as king over a great nation with as many people as the dust on the ground." 
2Chronicles1:10 So please give me wisdom and knowledge, so that I can be a good leader of these people. I will only be able to rule this great nation of your people if you do that for me.’" 
2Chronicles1:11 God said to Solomon, ‘I am pleased that you have not asked to have riches or many valuable things. You have not asked me to give you great honour or for me to punish your enemies with death. You have not asked for a long life. Instead you asked me to give you wisdom and knowledge to rule over my people that I have chosen you to rule as king." 
2Chronicles1:12 Because of that, I will give to you wisdom and knowledge, as you asked. But I will also give you riches, valuable things and honour. You will have more of those than any king who has lived before you and more than any king who will live after you.’" 
2Chronicles1:13 Solomon left the special tent in Gibeon where God met with his people. He returned to Jerusalem. There he ruled over Israel as king. 
2Chronicles1:14 Solomon brought together many chariots and horses for his soldiers to ride. He had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horses. He kept some of them in Jerusalem where he lived as king. He kept the others in cities that he had chosen for this." 
2Chronicles1:15 While Solomon ruled as king, there was as much silver and gold in Jerusalem as stones! There was as much wood from cedar trees as there were fig trees that grew in the low hills in the west." 
2Chronicles1:16 Solomon brought his horses from Egypt and from Kue. He sent traders to Kue to buy them for him. 
2Chronicles1:17 They paid 600 pieces of silver for each chariot that they bought in Egypt. They paid 150 pieces of silver for each horse. They also sold chariots and horses to all the kings of the Hittites and to the kings of Syria. 
2Chronicles2:1 Solomon decided to build a house to give honour to the Lord 's name. He also decided to build a royal palace for himself. 
2Chronicles2:2 He chose 70,000 men to carry the heavy things for the buildings, and 80,000 men to cut rocks in the hills. He also chose 3,600 men to lead these workers." 
2Chronicles2:3 Solomon wrote this letter to King Hiram of Tyre: ‘You helped my father King David when you sent him wood from cedar trees to build his palace. Please help me now. 
2Chronicles2:4 I am ready to build a temple to give honour to the Lord my God. It will be a holy place that belongs to him. We Israelites will burn sweet incense for him there. We will put special bread there every day. We will burn sacrifices to the Lord our God every morning and every evening. We will also do that on Sabbath days, on New Moon festival days and on other special days that God has chosen. He has told us to do this for all time." 
2Chronicles2:5 The house that I will build for our God will be a great temple, because he is greater than all gods." 
2Chronicles2:6 I know that nobody can really build a house for our God. The whole sky, or even heaven itself, is not big enough to contain him. So I certainly cannot build a place for him to live in, but it will be a place where we can offer sacrifices to him." 
2Chronicles2:7 Please send me a man who has special skills to work with gold, silver, bronze and iron, as well as with valuable red, purple and blue materials. He must also know how to cut pictures on metal. He will help my own workers here in Judah and in Jerusalem. They are workers with special skills that my father David chose to do this work." 
2Chronicles2:8 Please send me wood from cedar trees, cypress trees and other strong trees from Lebanon. I know that your men have good skills to cut down trees in Lebanon. My own men will help your men with the work." 
2Chronicles2:9 I will need you to send me a lot of wood because I am ready to build a large and beautiful temple. 
2Chronicles2:10 I will pay your men who cut down the trees. To pay them, I will send 2,000 tons of wheat, 2,000 tons of barley, 450,000 litres of wine and 450,000 litres of olive oil.’" 
2Chronicles2:11 King Hiram of Tyre replied to Solomon with this letter: ‘Because the Lord loves his people, he has chosen you to be their king.’" 
2Chronicles2:12 Hiram also said, ‘ Praise the Lord, Israel's God! He made the whole universe. He has now given a wise son to King David, a son who is clever and who understands things well. He will build a temple for the Lord and a royal palace for himself." 
2Chronicles2:13 I have decided to send Huram-Abi to you. He is a wise man who has special skills. 
2Chronicles2:14 His mother belonged to the tribe of Dan. His father came from Tyre. He knows how to work with gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone and wood. He can also work with purple, blue and red materials, and with white linen. He can make all kinds of pictures on metal, if you show him what you want. He will help your own workers and the workers that your father King David chose." 
2Chronicles2:15 Please sir, now send us the wheat, barley, olive oil and wine that you promised." 
2Chronicles2:16 Then we will cut the wood that you need from the trees in Lebanon. We will tie the wood together to make boats. Then we will send them on the sea to Joppa. You can take the wood from there up to Jerusalem.’ 
2Chronicles2:17 Solomon counted all the foreign men who were living in Israel, as his father David had done. There were 153,600 foreign men." 
2Chronicles2:18 He chose 70,000 of them to carry things for the buildings. He chose 80,000 of them to cut rocks in the hills. He also chose 3,600 of them to lead the workers, to make sure that they finished the work properly." 
2Chronicles3:1 Then Solomon began to build the Lord 's temple in Jerusalem. He built it on Mount Moriah, where the Lord had shown himself to his father David. David had prepared a place for the temple there, at the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite." 
2Chronicles3:2 Solomon began to build the temple on the second day of the second month of the fourth year that he ruled Israel as king. 
2Chronicles3:3 The foundation for God's temple was 27 metres long and 9 metres wide. (They measured it in cubits.) 
2Chronicles3:4 There was an entrance room at the front of the temple's big hall. It was as wide as the temple, 9 metres wide. It was 9 metres high. Solomon's workers covered the inside of the entrance room with pure gold." 
2Chronicles3:5 They covered the walls inside the big hall with boards of cypress wood. Then they covered the boards with pure gold. They drew pictures of palm trees and chains on the walls. 
2Chronicles3:6 They used valuable stones to make the temple beautiful. The gold that they used came from Parvaim. 
2Chronicles3:7 They used gold to cover all parts of the temple: the beams for its roof, the entrances, the walls and the doors. They cut pictures of cherubs on the walls." 
2Chronicles3:8 Solomon's workers built the Most Holy Place in the temple. It was 9 metres long and 9 metres wide. That was how wide the temple itself was. They used about 20,000 kilograms of pure gold to cover its walls." 
2Chronicles3:9 The gold nails weighed the same as 50 gold coins. They also covered the walls of the upstairs rooms with gold. 
2Chronicles3:10 In the Most Holy Place, they made models of two cherubs. They covered them with gold." 
2Chronicles3:11 The cherubs stood side by side in the Most Holy Place. Their faces looked towards the big hall. Each cherub had two wings. Each wing was 2.2 metres long. They held their wings out so that one wing of each cherub touched a wing of the other cherub. The other wing of each cherub touched a wall of the Most Holy Place. The four wings of the two cherubs reached across 9 metres. 
2Chronicles3:12  
2Chronicles3:13  
2Chronicles3:14 Solomon's workers used blue, purple and red material and good linen to make a special curtain. It had pictures of cherubs on it." 
2Chronicles3:15 Solomon's workers made two pillars to stand at the front of the temple. They were 8 metres high. There was a piece on the top of each pillar that was 2.2 metres high. 
2Chronicles3:16 They made images of chains around the top pieces of the pillars. They also made 100 images of pomegranates among the chains. 
2Chronicles3:17 Then they put the two pillars at the entrance of the temple. One pillar stood on the south side of the entrance. The other pillar stood on the north side. Solomon called the pillar on the south side ‘Jakin’. He called the pillar on the north side ‘Boaz’. 
2Chronicles4:1 Solomon's workers made a bronze altar. It was 9 metres long, 9 metres wide and 4 metres high." 
2Chronicles4:2 They used bronze to make a big bath which they called ‘the Sea’. It was in the shape of a circle 4½ metres across. It was 2½ metres deep. It was 14 metres around the outside. 
2Chronicles4:3 All around its edge, below the top, there were two rows of images of things that looked like bulls. They were all part of the same piece of bronze as the big bath. There were 20 bulls for every metre around the edge." 
2Chronicles4:4 They put the bronze ‘Sea’ on top of 12 bronze bulls. Three pointed north, three pointed west, three pointed south and three pointed east. Their backs were towards the middle of the ‘Sea’." 
2Chronicles4:5 The bronze walls of the ‘Sea’ were 7½ centimetres thick. Its top edge was like a cup in the shape of a lily flower. The ‘Sea’ contained about 65,000 litres of water." 
2Chronicles4:6 They made ten bowls to wash in. They put five bowls on the south side and five bowls on the north side. The priests used them to wash all the things that they used for the burnt offerings. But the priests washed themselves in the water from the bronze ‘Sea’. 
2Chronicles4:7 They used gold to make ten lampstands. They made them in the way that Solomon told them. They put the lampstands in the temple, five lampstands on the south side and five lampstands on the north side." 
2Chronicles4:8 They also made ten tables. They put them in the temple, five tables on the south side and five tables on the north side. They also used gold to make 100 bowls." 
2Chronicles4:9 They made a small yard for the priests and another big yard with doors. They covered the doors with bronze. 
2Chronicles4:10 They put the bronze ‘Sea’ on the south side of the temple, at its south-east corner." 
2Chronicles4:11 Huram-Abi also made more pots, small tools and bowls. So he finished all the work in God's temple that King Solomon had asked him to do. He made these things:" 
2Chronicles4:12 two pillars; two pieces for the top of each pillar, with the shape of big bowls; rows of chains on the tops of the pillars;" 
2Chronicles4:13 400 images of pomegranates for the two groups of chains (there were two rows of these images around the piece at the top of each pillar, which had the shape of a bowl);" 
2Chronicles4:14 the carts with the buckets that were on them; 
2Chronicles4:15 the big bronze bath called ‘the Sea’ and the 12 bulls under it; 
2Chronicles4:16 the pots, small tools and forks for meat. King Solomon asked Huram-Abi to make all these things for the Lord 's temple. He used bright bronze to make all these things." 
2Chronicles4:17 The king told his workers to pour the hot bronze into shapes in the ground. They did that at a special place in the region of the Jordan Valley, between Succoth and Zarethan." 
2Chronicles4:18 Solomon did not weigh any of these things, because there were so many of them. No one ever knew the weight of the bronze." 
2Chronicles4:19 Solomon's workers also made all these things for God's temple: the gold altar; the tables which had the special bread on them; 
2Chronicles4:20 the pure gold lampstands with their lamps (the plans showed how the lamps had to burn at the entrance of the Most Holy Place); 
2Chronicles4:21 the gold images of flowers; the lamps; the small tools that held things for the altar; 
2Chronicles4:22 the small tools of pure gold that they used for the lamps; the bowls for water; the dishes for ashes; the baskets that carried hot coals; the gold pieces that held the doors of the Most Holy Place; the gold pieces that held the doors of the temple's big hall. 
2Chronicles5:1 Solomon finished all the work for the Lord 's temple. Then he brought into it all the holy things that belonged to his father, David. He stored all the valuable things in a safe place in God's temple. They included silver things and gold things." 
2Chronicles5:2 Then Solomon told all the leaders of Israel to come to him in Jerusalem. They were all the leaders of the Israelite tribes and families. He wanted them to bring the Lord 's Covenant Box from Mount Zion, the City of David, to put it in the temple." 
2Chronicles5:3 So all the Israelite leaders came together to meet with King Solomon. This happened during the Festival of Huts in the seventh month of the year. 
2Chronicles5:4 When all Israel's leaders had arrived, the Levites lifted up the Covenant Box." 
2Chronicles5:5 The priests and the other Levites carried the Covenant Box, the Tent of Meeting and all the holy things that were in the tent." 
2Chronicles5:6 King Solomon and all the Israelites who were with him walked in front of the Covenant Box. They offered many sheep and bulls as sacrifices. There were more animals than anyone could count. 
2Chronicles5:7 Then the priests brought the Lord 's Covenant Box to its proper place in the inside room of the temple. That was the Most Holy Place. They put it under the wings of the cherubs. 
2Chronicles5:8 The wings of the cherubs touched each other above the place where the Covenant Box was. The cherubs covered the Covenant Box and the poles that the Levites used to carry it. 
2Chronicles5:9 The poles in the Covenant Box were very long. The priests could see their ends from the Holy Place, if they stood in front of the Most Holy Place. But nobody could see the poles from outside the temple. And they are still there today." 
2Chronicles5:10 There was nothing in the Covenant Box, except the two flat pieces of stone that Moses had put there at Mount Sinai. That was where the Lord made a covenant with the Israelites after they came out from Egypt." 
2Chronicles5:11 Then the priests came out of the Holy Place. All the different groups of priests who were there had made themselves clean to serve God. 
2Chronicles5:12 The Levites who were musicians stood on the east side of the altar. They were Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun and their sons and their relatives. They wore clothes made of linen. They made music with cymbals, harps and lyres. There were also 120 priests who made music with trumpets." 
2Chronicles5:13 All these musicians made nice music together. They joined together to praise the Lord and to thank him. The singers sang loudly to the music of the trumpets, the cymbals and the other musical instruments. They loudly sang these words to praise the Lord: ‘He is good! His faithful love continues for ever!’ Then a cloud filled the Lord 's temple." 
2Chronicles5:14 The priests could not do their work to serve the Lord, because of the cloud. The bright glory of the Lord filled his temple." 
2Chronicles6:1 Then Solomon prayed, ‘ Lord, you have said that you live in a dark cloud." 
2Chronicles6:2 Now I have built a great temple for you. It is a place where you can live for ever.’ 
2Chronicles6:3 While all the Israelite people stood there, the king turned round towards them. He prayed that God would bless them." 
2Chronicles6:4 He said, ‘ Praise the Lord, Israel's God, as he deserves. He has used his power to do what he promised to do for my father David." 
2Chronicles6:5 He told David, “I brought my people out of Egypt. From that time, I have not chosen a city in any of Israel's tribes to build a temple where my people would worship me. I have not chosen a man to be the leader of my people, the Israelites." 
2Chronicles6:6 But now I have chosen Jerusalem to be the place where my people worship me. And I have chosen David to rule Israel, my people, as king.”" 
2Chronicles6:7 My father David wanted very much to build a temple to give honour to the Lord, Israel's God." 
2Chronicles6:8 But the Lord said to my father David, “It was good that you wanted to build a temple to give me honour." 
2Chronicles6:9 But you will not build the temple. Instead, one of your own sons will build it to give honour to me.”" 
2Chronicles6:10 Now the Lord has done what he promised to do. I now rule Israel as king on the throne of my father David, as the Lord promised. I have built this temple to give honour to the Lord, Israel's God." 
2Chronicles6:11 I have put the Covenant Box there. It contains the covenant that the Lord made with the Israelites.’ 
2Chronicles6:12 Then Solomon stood in front of the Lord 's altar. All the Israelite people who had come together there could see him. He lifted up his hands to pray. 
2Chronicles6:13 He had made a bronze stage to stand on. It was 2.3 metres long, 2.3 metres wide and 1.4 metres high. He put it in the middle of the yard and he stood on it. Then he went down on his knees where all the Israelites could see him. He lifted up his hands towards the sky." 
2Chronicles6:14 He prayed, ‘ Lord, Israel's God, there is no God like you, either in heaven or on the earth. You continue to do what you have promised to do for your people. You faithfully love those who want to serve you." 
2Chronicles6:15 You have done what you promised to do for your servant, my father David. You have used your power to finish today everything that you said you would do." 
2Chronicles6:16 Now Lord, Israel's God, there is another promise that you spoke to my father David. I pray that you will do that too. You said to David, “There will always be one of your descendants to rule Israel as my chosen king. But for this to happen, your sons must be careful to obey my Law, as you have done.”" 
2Chronicles6:17 So now Lord, Israel's God, please cause what you promised to your servant David to happen." 
2Chronicles6:18 But surely God, you do not live on the earth with people! The whole sky, or even heaven itself, is too small to contain you! So how can you live in this temple that I have built?" 
2Chronicles6:19 But Lord, my God, please listen to my prayer, as I ask you for help. Please answer me, your servant, because I need your help." 
2Chronicles6:20 Watch over this temple and take care of it day and night. This is the place about which you said, “People will give honour to my name there.” Please answer my prayers when I turn towards this place to pray to you." 
2Chronicles6:21 Hear the prayers of me, your servant, and the prayers of your people, the Israelites. Please answer us when we turn towards this place and we pray to you. Hear us from heaven, the place where you live. And when we pray, forgive us for our sins." 
2Chronicles6:22 Somebody may do a bad thing against another person. Then he may come to this temple and stand in front of your altar. He may say to you that he is not guilty of any wrong thing. 
2Chronicles6:23 Then listen from heaven to what these people are saying. Decide who is right. Punish the guilty person as he deserves. Show clearly that the other person is right, because he has not done any wrong thing." 
2Chronicles6:24 Perhaps an enemy will win against your people, the Israelites, because we have not obeyed you. But then your people may turn back to you and worship you. They may come into this temple and pray that you will help them." 
2Chronicles6:25 If they do that, please hear them from heaven! Please forgive the sins of your people, the Israelites. Please bring them back to the land that you gave to their ancestors." 
2Chronicles6:26 Sometimes, there may be no rain from the sky because your people have not obeyed you. Then they may turn towards this place and pray to you. They may give honour to your name and turn away from their sins, because you have punished them." 
2Chronicles6:27 If they do that, please hear them from heaven! Please forgive the sins of your servants, your people, the Israelites. Teach them to live in the right way. And please send rain onto this land that you gave to your people, to belong to them for ever." 
2Chronicles6:28 Sometimes, there may be other troubles in our land. There may be a famine or a bad disease. Our crops may not grow and our animals may be ill. Locusts may destroy our crops. An enemy may attack some cities in our land. Or there may be other kinds of illness or trouble." 
2Chronicles6:29 Then, some of your people may pray to you and ask you for help. If someone is very sad and in pain, he may turn towards this temple and lift up his hands in prayer." 
2Chronicles6:30 If someone does that, please hear him from your home in heaven. Please forgive the sins of your people. Only you know what people are thinking. So please give to each person as they deserve." 
2Chronicles6:31 Then your people will respect you and obey you all the time that they live in this land that you gave to our ancestors. 
2Chronicles6:32 Foreigners, who do not belong to your people, the Israelites, will hear how great you are. They will hear about you and your power to do great things. Then they will come here from other countries far away. They will turn towards this temple and pray to you." 
2Chronicles6:33 When that happens, please hear them from your home in heaven. Please answer all the prayers of these foreign people. Then people from all the nations in the world will realize how great you are. They also will respect you and obey you, as your own people do. They will understand that this temple that I have built belongs to you." 
2Chronicles6:34 Sometimes, your people will go to fight against their enemies at the place where you have sent them. Then they may turn towards this city and pray to you. This is the city that you have chosen for me to build the temple to give you honour." 
2Chronicles6:35 When they pray to you, please hear them from your home in heaven. Do what is right to help them win against their enemies." 
2Chronicles6:36 There is nobody who never does a wrong thing. So when your people do not obey you, you will be angry with them. You will put them under the power of their enemies. Those enemies will take them away as their prisoners. Perhaps they will take them to a country that is far away. Perhaps it will be near." 
2Chronicles6:37 Then your people may think about the bad things that they have done. While they are prisoners in their enemies' country, they may be sorry about their sins. They may pray to you and ask you to forgive them. They may say, “We have turned away from God and we have done wicked things.”" 
2Chronicles6:38 In the country where they are prisoners, they may turn back to you and worship you truly. They may turn towards this land that you gave to their ancestors. They may pray as they look towards this city that you have chosen. They may look towards the temple that I have built to give you honour." 
2Chronicles6:39 If they do that, please hear them from your home in heaven. Please answer their prayers and do what is right to help them. Please forgive your people for all the sins that they have done against you." 
2Chronicles6:40 Now, my God, please watch over us. Please listen to the prayers that we are praying in this place." 
2Chronicles6:41 Lord God, come now and stay here, in your home. Come into the temple with the Covenant Box that shows your great power. Bless your priests as they serve you. Cause your faithful people to be happy because you do good things for them." 
2Chronicles6:42 Lord God do not turn away from your special chosen king. Remember the faithful love that you promised to your servant David.’ 
2Chronicles7:1 When King Solomon had finished his prayer, fire came down from heaven. It destroyed the burnt offerings and the other sacrifices. The Lord 's bright glory filled the temple." 
2Chronicles7:2 The priests could not go into the Lord 's temple because the Lord 's bright glory had completely filled it. 
2Chronicles7:3 All the Israelites saw the fire come down. They also saw the Lord 's glory above the temple. They went down on their knees on the flat stones of the yard, with their faces towards the ground. They worshipped the Lord and they thanked him. They said, ‘He is good. His faithful love continues for ever.’" 
2Chronicles7:4 Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices to the Lord. 
2Chronicles7:5 King Solomon offered 22,000 cows and 120,000 sheep and goats as sacrifices. In this way the king and all the people offered the temple as a gift to God." 
2Chronicles7:6 The priests and the Levites stood in their places. The Levites held the musical instruments that King David had made to thank the Lord. They sang these words to praise the Lord: ‘His faithful love continues for ever.’ The priests stood on the other side and they made music with their trumpets. All the Israelites were standing up while this was happening. 
2Chronicles7:7 On the same day, Solomon gave to the Lord the yard that was in front of the temple. He offered burnt offerings and grain offerings to the Lord. He also offered the fat from the friendship offerings there. The bronze altar that Solomon had made was too small to contain all these offerings, so he made these sacrifices in the middle of the yard instead." 
2Chronicles7:8 At that time, Solomon and the big crowd of Israelites who were with him had a festival for seven days. There were people from everywhere in Israel, from Hamath in the north to the Stream of Egypt in the south." 
2Chronicles7:9 On the day after the festival, they all met together. For seven days, they had given offerings to make the altar holy for God. For another seven days, they had enjoyed the festival." 
2Chronicles7:10 Then Solomon sent the people away to their homes. That was on the 23rd day of the seventh month. The people were very happy and full of joy because the Lord had done many good things for King David, for King Solomon and for his people, the Israelites." 
2Chronicles7:11 Solomon had finished building the Lord 's temple and the king's palace. He had done everything that he wanted to do for the temple and his palace. 
2Chronicles7:12 Then the Lord appeared to Solomon at night. He said to Solomon, ‘I have heard your prayer. I have chosen this place as my temple where people can offer sacrifices to me." 
2Chronicles7:13 Sometimes I may stop the rain falling from the sky. I may send locusts to destroy your crops. Or I may send a bad disease to hurt my people. 
2Chronicles7:14 If that happens, my people who belong to me should be humble and they should pray to me. They should turn away from their sins and try to please me. Then I will hear them from heaven. I will forgive their sins and I will make their land successful again." 
2Chronicles7:15 Now I will watch over this place. I will answer the prayers that people offer to me here. 
2Chronicles7:16 I have chosen this temple to be my special home. People will worship me there for ever. I will always be there to watch over it. 
2Chronicles7:17 But you must all continue to serve me well, as your father David did. Do everything that I have commanded you to do. Obey my rules and my laws." 
2Chronicles7:18 If you do that, I will always cause one of your descendants to rule as king. That is what I promised to your father David when I said, “There will always be someone from your family to rule over Israel.”" 
2Chronicles7:19 But if any of you turn away from me, I will punish your people. I will do that if you do not obey the laws and rules that I have given to you. I will do it if you choose to serve and to worship other gods." 
2Chronicles7:20 I will remove the people from the land that I have given to them. I will turn away from this temple that I have made a special place for my people to worship me. People from all the other nations will insult them and they will laugh at them. 
2Chronicles7:21 This beautiful temple will became a heap of stones. Everyone who sees it will be very surprised. They will laugh about it! They will ask, “Why has the Lord destroyed this land and this temple?”" 
2Chronicles7:22 People will answer, “He has done it because they have turned away from the Lord, the God of their ancestors. He brought their ancestors out of Egypt. But now they have chosen to worship other gods and to serve them. That is why the Lord has caused this trouble to happen to them.” ’" 
2Chronicles8:1 Solomon was building the Lord 's temple and the king's palace for 20 years. 
2Chronicles8:2 After that, he built again the towns that King Hiram had given to him. He sent Israelites to live in them." 
2Chronicles8:3 Then Solomon went to Hamath-Zobah and he took it for Israel. 
2Chronicles8:4 He made the buildings in Tadmor strong again. That was a town in the wilderness. He did the same thing for the towns that he had built in Hamath region to store things. 
2Chronicles8:5 He built again Higher Beth-Horon and Lower Beth-Horon. He made those cities strong. He built walls around them with strong gates. 
2Chronicles8:6 He also made Baalath strong, and all his cities where he stored things, as well as all the cities where he kept his chariots and horses. He built everything that he wanted to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon and everywhere in his kingdom." 
2Chronicles8:7 Solomon only made people who were not Israelites do the hard work for him. They were Canaanite people who still lived in the land after the Israelites took it for themselves. They were Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
2Chronicles8:8 The Israelites had not been able to destroy all of these people, so their descendants remained in the land. Solomon made them do hard work as his slaves. They are still slaves of the Israelites today." 
2Chronicles8:9 But Solomon did not cause any Israelites to do the hard work as slaves. Instead, they became his soldiers and army officers. Some of the soldiers drove chariots and some were leaders of the chariot drivers." 
2Chronicles8:10 King Solomon had 250 Israelite officers who had authority over the workers. 
2Chronicles8:11 Solomon had built a palace for his wife, Pharaoh's daughter. When the palace was ready, he brought her up there from the City of David. He said, ‘My wife must not live in the palace of David, king of Israel. The Lord 's Covenant Box has been there, so it is a holy place.’" 
2Chronicles8:12 Solomon offered burnt offerings to the Lord on the altar that he had built. The altar was outside the entrance of the temple building. 
2Chronicles8:13 He offered the sacrifices every day that Moses had told them to do. There were rules about sacrifices on Sabbath days, on festivals for each new moon and on the three special festivals each year. Those were the Festival of Flat Bread, the Festival of Weeks and the Festival of Huts." 
2Chronicles8:14 Solomon gave jobs to each group of priests as his father David had commanded. He also gave the Levites their jobs to do each day. They led the music to worship God and they helped the priests with their work. He gave each group of guards a job to watch the gates of the temple. He told them all to do this in the way that God's servant David had commanded. 
2Chronicles8:15 All the priests and the Levites were careful to do exactly what the king had commanded. That included the rooms where they stored valuable things. 
2Chronicles8:16 Solomon's workers did all the jobs that he told them to do. They started on the day when they built the foundation of the Lord 's temple. They continued to work until they had finished everything. In that way, work on the Lord 's temple was complete." 
2Chronicles8:17 Then Solomon went to Ezion-Geber and to Elath. They were towns on the coast of the sea, in the land of Edom." 
2Chronicles8:18 King Hiram had sailors who knew how to sail ships on the sea. He sent some of these men to work with Solomon's sailors. They sailed to Ophir and they brought back about 15 tons of gold. They gave it to King Solomon. 
2Chronicles9:1 The Queen of Sheba heard news that Solomon was a great king. So she came to ask Solomon some difficult questions to see how wise he was. She arrived at Jerusalem with a big group of servants. She had many camels that carried spices. They also carried a lot of gold and valuable jewels. When she came to Solomon, she talked to him about everything that was in her mind." 
2Chronicles9:2 Solomon answered all her questions. There was nothing that was too difficult for him to explain to her. 
2Chronicles9:3 The Queen of Sheba saw that Solomon was very wise. She saw the palace that he had built. 
2Chronicles9:4 She saw all the food that he ate in his palace. She saw all his servants and officers and their beautiful clothes. She saw the servants who prepared his food and wine. She saw the burnt offerings that he offered in the Lord 's temple. All these things caused her to hold her breath in surprise. 
2Chronicles9:5 She said to the king, ‘In my own country I heard news about your wisdom and about all the things that you had done. Everything that I heard was true!" 
2Chronicles9:6 But I did not believe those things until I came here. Now I have seen everything with my own eyes, and it is true! Really, they told me less than half of what was true! You are even wiser than the report that people told me." 
2Chronicles9:7 God has blessed your people and your officers! They are always with you, and they can listen to your wise words." 
2Chronicles9:8 So we should praise the Lord your God! He is happy with you and he has chosen you to rule Israel on his behalf. Your God will continue to love Israel for ever, and he will always make them strong. So he has made you king to rule them in a fair and honest way.’" 
2Chronicles9:9 The Queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon more than four tons of gold, a lot of spices and many valuable jewels. Nobody has ever brought such a great number of spices as she gave to the king." 
2Chronicles9:10 King Hiram's men had brought gold from Ophir. King Solomon's men had helped them to do this. They also brought very good wood, and valuable jewels." 
2Chronicles9:11 The king used the wood to make steps for the Lord 's temple and for the king's palace. He also used it to make harps and lyres for the musicians. Nobody had ever seen things like those in Judah. 
2Chronicles9:12 King Solomon gave to the Queen of Sheba everything that she wanted. He gave more things to her than she had brought to him. Then she left with all her servants and she returned to her own country. 
2Chronicles9:13 Solomon received 25 tons of gold each year. 
2Chronicles9:14 He also received money from traders and from people who travelled to buy things. The kings of Arabia and the rulers of each region in Israel also brought gold and silver to Solomon. 
2Chronicles9:15 King Solomon's workers used gold to make 200 large shields. They hit the gold with hammers to make it flat. They used about four kilograms of gold to cover each shield. 
2Chronicles9:16 They also made 300 small shields in the same way. They used about 2 kilograms of gold to cover each shield. He put these shields in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon. 
2Chronicles9:17 The king used ivory to make a large throne. He covered it with pure gold. 
2Chronicles9:18 There were six steps up to the throne. They fixed a gold box to the throne for the king to put his feet on. On both sides of the seat there were places to put his arms. An image of a lion stood on each side of the throne. 
2Chronicles9:19 There were 12 more images of lions on the six steps. There was one lion at each end of every step. There was no throne like it in any other kingdom. 
2Chronicles9:20 They used gold to make all King Solomon's cups that he drank from. In the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon, all the dishes and other things were made with gold. They used pure gold. They did not make anything with silver. In Solomon's time, people did not think that silver was very valuable." 
2Chronicles9:21 The king had many large ships that King Hiram's men could sail across the seas. Every three years they returned to Solomon with their loads. They brought to him gold, silver and ivory. They also brought apes and monkeys." 
2Chronicles9:22 King Solomon was richer and wiser than any other king in the world. 
2Chronicles9:23 The kings of every nation in the world wanted to talk to Solomon. They wanted to listen to the wisdom that God had given to him. 
2Chronicles9:24 Every year, people who came to visit Solomon brought him gifts. They brought things that were made from silver and gold, as well as clothes, weapons, spices, horses and mules." 
2Chronicles9:25 Solomon had places to keep 4,000 horses that pulled his chariots. He also had 12,000 horses. He kept them in the cities that he had chosen for this and also in Jerusalem where he lived." 
2Chronicles9:26 He ruled over all the kings around Israel, from the Euphrates River as far as the Philistines' country and the border of Egypt." 
2Chronicles9:27 While Solomon ruled as king, there was as much silver in Jerusalem as stones! There was as much wood from cedar trees as there were fig trees that grew in the low hills in the west." 
2Chronicles9:28 People brought horses to Solomon from Egypt and from all the other countries. 
2Chronicles9:29 People wrote down everything else that Solomon did while he ruled as king, from the beginning to the end. The prophet Nathan wrote them down in his book. The prophet Ahijah who came from Shiloh also wrote them down. The prophet Iddo also wrote about them in his book of the visions that he saw about Nebat's son Jeroboam." 
2Chronicles9:30 Solomon ruled over all Israel for 40 years while he lived in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles9:31 Then he died. They buried him with his ancestors, in the city of his father David. His son Rehoboam became king after him." 
2Chronicles10:1 Rehoboam went to Shechem, because all the Israelites had gone there to make him king." 
2Chronicles10:2 At this time, Nebat's son Jeroboam was in Egypt. He had been living there since he ran away from King Solomon. When he heard the news about Rehoboam, he returned from Egypt." 
2Chronicles10:3 The Israelites sent a message to Jeroboam to meet with them. Then Jeroboam and all the Israelites went to speak to Rehoboam. They said to him," 
2Chronicles10:4 ‘Your father caused us to work too hard. Please make the work easier for us. If you do that, we will serve you as our king.’" 
2Chronicles10:5 Rehoboam answered them, ‘Go away for three days. Then come back to me.’ So the people went away." 
2Chronicles10:6 Then King Rehoboam went to talk to the older advisors who had served his father Solomon. He asked them, ‘What answer should I give to these people?’" 
2Chronicles10:7 They replied, ‘If you agree to be kind to these people and help them, they will always serve you as their king. So do what they are asking you to do.’" 
2Chronicles10:8 But Rehoboam did not agree with their advice. Instead he talked to some younger men. They had been his friends since they were young and now they were his advisors. 
2Chronicles10:9 He asked them, ‘What do you think that I should say to these people? They want me to make their work easier.’" 
2Chronicles10:10 Rehoboam's young advisors said, ‘The people said to you, “Your father made us work too hard. Please make our work easier.” You should tell them, “Even my little finger is thicker than my father's whole body!" 
2Chronicles10:11 My father made you work hard. I will make you work even harder! My father punished you with little whips. I will punish you with whips that bite your skin!” ’ 
2Chronicles10:12 Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam after three days. That was because the king had said, ‘Return to me in three days.’" 
2Chronicles10:13 King Rehoboam spoke cruel words to the people. He did not agree to say what the older men had told him to say. 
2Chronicles10:14 Instead, he did what the young men had suggested. He said to the people, ‘My father gave you work that was too hard for you. I will make it even worse! My father punished you with little whips. I will punish you with whips that bite!’" 
2Chronicles10:15 So the king did not agree to do what the people wanted him to do. It was God who caused this to happen. He had already given his message about this to Nebat's son Jeroboam. The prophet Ahijah who came from Shiloh had spoken the Lord 's message to Jeroboam. 
2Chronicles10:16 All the Israelites realized that the king refused to listen to them. So they said to the king, ‘We can no longer serve the family of Jesse's son, David! Israelites, go back to your homes! You descendant of David, take care of your own family!’ So the Israelites went to their homes." 
2Chronicles10:17 But Rehoboam continued to rule over the Israelites who lived in the towns of Judah. 
2Chronicles10:18 King Rehoboam sent a man called Adoniram to talk to the Israelite people. Adoniram had authority over the men who had to work for Rehoboam. But the Israelites threw stones at Adoniram and they killed him. So King Rehoboam quickly got into his chariot and he escaped to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles10:19 Since that time, the tribes in the north of Israel have not accepted the authority of King David's descendants." 
2Chronicles11:1 Rehoboam arrived back in Jerusalem. He brought together all the men from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin who knew how to fight. There were 180,000 of them. Rehoboam wanted to attack the Israelite tribes so that he could rule them again as king." 
2Chronicles11:2 But the Lord told the prophet Shemaiah," 
2Chronicles11:3 ‘Say this to Solomon's son Rehoboam, the king of Judah. Say it to all the Israelite people who belong to the tribes of Judah and Benjamin." 
2Chronicles11:4 This is what the Lord says: “Do not go and attack your brothers. Do not fight against them. Instead, you must all go home. I, the Lord, have decided that this must happen.” ’ So they obeyed the Lord 's message. They did not go to attack Jeroboam." 
2Chronicles11:5 Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem. He built these strong cities in Judah to make it safe: 
2Chronicles11:6 Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa," 
2Chronicles11:7 Beth-Zur, Soco, Adullam," 
2Chronicles11:8 Gath, Mareshah, Ziph," 
2Chronicles11:9 Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah," 
2Chronicles11:10 Zorah, Aijalon and Hebron. He made all those cities in Judah and Benjamin very strong." 
2Chronicles11:11 He made their buildings stronger. He put important officers in them to rule over them. He stored food, olive oil and wine in them." 
2Chronicles11:12 He supplied every city with shields and spears. He did all these things to make them very strong places. So Rehoboam kept his authority over Judah and Benjamin. 
2Chronicles11:13 The priests and Levites who lived everywhere in Israel agreed to serve Rehoboam. 
2Chronicles11:14 The Levites even left their lands and their houses to come to Judah and Jerusalem. They came because Jeroboam and his sons refused to let them serve the Lord as his priests. 
2Chronicles11:15 Jeroboam chose his own priests to offer sacrifices at the altars that he had built on the hills. They worshipped the idols of goats and young bulls that Jeroboam had made. 
2Chronicles11:16 But some people from every tribe in Israel still wanted to worship the Lord, Israel's God. So they came with the Levites to Jerusalem. They came to offer sacrifices to the Lord, the God of their ancestors." 
2Chronicles11:17 These people helped to make the kingdom of Judah stronger. They were faithful to Solomon's son Rehoboam for three years. During that time, they lived in the way that David and Solomon had taught them to live." 
2Chronicles11:18 Rehoboam married Mahalath. Her father was David's son Jerimoth. Her mother was Abihail, the daughter of Jesse's son Eliab." 
2Chronicles11:19 She gave birth to three sons for Rehoboam. Their names were Jeush, Shemariah and Zaham." 
2Chronicles11:20 Then Rehoboam married Absalom's daughter Maakah. She gave birth to Abijah, Attai, Ziza and Shelomith for him." 
2Chronicles11:21 Rehoboam loved Absalom's daughter Maakah better than he loved any of his other wives. He had 18 wives and 60 slave wives. He was the father of 28 sons and 60 daughters. 
2Chronicles11:22 Rehoboam chose Maakah's son Abijah to be the leader over his other sons. He wanted Abijah to become the next king. 
2Chronicles11:23 He did a wise thing with his other sons. He sent many of them to the different regions of Judah and Benjamin, to live in all the strong cities. He supplied them with plenty of food. He also found many women to become their wives." 
2Chronicles12:1 Rehoboam became a strong king who ruled with authority. But after that, he stopped obeying the Law of the Lord. All the Israelites did the same thing." 
2Chronicles12:2 They did not serve the Lord in a faithful way. Because of that, King Shishak of Egypt attacked Jerusalem in the fifth year that Rehoboam was king of Judah." 
2Chronicles12:3 King Shishak's army had 1,200 chariots and 60,000 soldiers who rode on horses. Many other soldiers came with him from Egypt. They included men from Libya, Sukkoth and Ethiopia." 
2Chronicles12:4 He took power over Judah's strong cities. Then his army marched to attack Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles12:5 The prophet Shemaiah then came to speak to Rehoboam and the leaders of Judah. They had met together in Jerusalem because they were afraid of King Shishak. Shemaiah said to them, ‘The Lord says this: “You have turned away from me. So now I have turned away from you. I will let Shishak take power over you.” ’" 
2Chronicles12:6 The leaders of Israel and the king made themselves humble. They said, ‘The Lord is right to do that.’" 
2Chronicles12:7 The Lord saw that they had made themselves humble. So he said to Shemaiah, ‘Because they have made themselves humble, I will not destroy them. I will soon rescue them. I will not use Shishak to completely destroy Jerusalem's people. But because I am angry," 
2Chronicles12:8 they will become his servants. Then they will learn what it is like to serve a foreign king instead of me.’ 
2Chronicles12:9 King Shishak of Egypt then attacked Jerusalem. He took away the valuable things that were in the Lord 's temple and in the king's palace. He took everything for himself. That included the gold shields that King Solomon had made. 
2Chronicles12:10 So Rehoboam used bronze to make other shields instead. He gave them to the officers of his own soldiers. These soldiers stood as guards at the entrance of the king's palace. 
2Chronicles12:11 Every time that the king went to the Lord 's temple, the guards carried the shields. After that, they took them back to the guards' room where they stored them." 
2Chronicles12:12 Rehoboam made himself humble. So the Lord did not destroy him. He stopped being angry with Rehoboam. He caused good things to happen in Judah. 
2Chronicles12:13 Rehoboam made his authority as king in Jerusalem very strong. He was 41 years old when he became king. He ruled for 17 years in Jerusalem. That was the city that the Lord had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel. He chose it as the place where people would give honour to his name. Rehoboam's mother was an Ammonite woman. Her name was Naamah. 
2Chronicles12:14 Rehoboam did wicked things because he did not agree to serve the Lord faithfully. 
2Chronicles12:15 All the things that happened while Rehoboam was king of Judah are written in some books. The prophet Shemaiah and the prophet Iddo wrote those things in their books. The books include lists of the ancestors of Rehoboam's family. Rehoboam and Jeroboam fought wars against each other all the time. 
2Chronicles12:16 Rehoboam died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David. His son Abijah became king after him. 
2Chronicles13:1 Abijah became king of Judah after Jeroboam had been king of Israel for 18 years. 
2Chronicles13:2 Abijah ruled in Jerusalem as king for three years. His mother's name was Micaiah. She was the daughter of Uriel from Gibeah. Abijah and Jeroboam fought a war against each other. 
2Chronicles13:3 Abijah attacked with an army of 400,000 brave soldiers that he had chosen. Jeroboam prepared to fight against him with 800,000 brave soldiers that he had chosen." 
2Chronicles13:4 Abijah went to stand on Mount Zemaraim, in the hill country of Ephraim. He shouted, ‘Listen to me, Jeroboam and all you Israelites!" 
2Chronicles13:5 The Lord, Israel's God, has chosen David and his descendants to be kings of Israel for all time. You know that God has promised that must happen." 
2Chronicles13:6 Nebat's son Jeroboam was a servant of David's son, King Solomon. But he turned against his master." 
2Chronicles13:7 He took some wicked useless men to join his group. They made themselves strong against Solomon's son, Rehoboam. Rehoboam was young and he had not been king for very long. So he was not strong enough to stop them." 
2Chronicles13:8 Now you want to fight against the Lord 's own kingdom that he has chosen David's descendants to rule over. You have a very large army. You bring with you the gold statues of young bulls that Jeroboam made for you as your gods. 
2Chronicles13:9 But you chased away the Lord 's own priests, the descendants of Aaron. You chased away the Levites. Instead you chose your own priests, as the people in other nations do. Anyone can become a priest to serve your false gods. He only has to come with a sacrifice of a young bull and seven male sheep!" 
2Chronicles13:10 But we still serve the Lord as our God. We have not turned away from him. We have the descendants of Aaron to serve as our priests. The Levites help them in their work. 
2Chronicles13:11 They offer burnt offerings and sweet incense to the Lord every morning and every evening. They put out the special bread on his table every day. They light the lamps on the gold lampstand every evening. So we are the people who are obeying the rules of the Lord our God. But you have turned away from him. 
2Chronicles13:12 Listen to me! God himself is our leader. He is here to help us. His priests are ready to make a loud noise with their trumpets to start the battle against you. Israelite people, do not fight against the Lord, the God of your ancestors. You will not win the battle.’" 
2Chronicles13:13 But Jeroboam had sent some soldiers around behind Judah's army. Jeroboam was with the rest of his army, in front of Judah's army. The other soldiers were ready to attack from behind." 
2Chronicles13:14 Judah's soldiers turned around. They saw that Jeroboam's soldiers were in front of them and behind them. So they called out to the Lord for help. The priests made a noise with their trumpets. 
2Chronicles13:15 Judah's soldiers shouted very loudly. As King Abijah led Judah's soldiers into the battle, the Lord knocked down Jeroboam and all Israel's army." 
2Chronicles13:16 Israel's soldiers ran away as Judah's army chased after them. God caused Judah's soldiers to win the fight. 
2Chronicles13:17 Abijah and his army killed many of the Israel soldiers. 500,000 of Israel's best soldiers died." 
2Chronicles13:18 Judah's soldiers trusted the Lord, the God of their ancestors, to help them. That was why they won the battle that day against Israel's army." 
2Chronicles13:19 King Abijah chased King Jeroboam. He took these Israelite towns for himself: Bethel, Jeshanah and Ephron, as well as the villages around them." 
2Chronicles13:20 After that, while Abijah was Judah's king, Jeroboam never became strong again. Finally, the Lord punished Jeroboam so that he died." 
2Chronicles13:21 But Abijah became more powerful. He married 14 wives. He became the father of 22 sons and 16 daughters. 
2Chronicles13:22 All the other things that happened while Abijah ruled as king are written in the book of the prophet Iddo. It includes the things that Abijah did and the things that he said. 
2Chronicles14:1 Abijah died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David. Abijah's son Asa became king after him. The country had peace for ten years while Asa was king. 
2Chronicles14:2 Asa did things that pleased the Lord his God. 
2Chronicles14:3 He removed the altars and other places where people worshipped foreign gods. He broke the stone pillars and he cut down the Asherah poles. 
2Chronicles14:4 Asa commanded the people of Judah to worship the Lord, the God of their ancestors. He told them to obey God's Law and his commands." 
2Chronicles14:5 He removed the altars on the hills. He also removed the altars in all Judah's cities where people burned incense. There was peace in his kingdom while he ruled. 
2Chronicles14:6 While there was peace in the land, Asa made the cities of Judah strong and safe. No enemies fought wars against Judah during that time. The Lord gave Asa rest from any trouble." 
2Chronicles14:7 Asa said to Judah's people, ‘We should build these towns and make them stronger. We must put walls around them, with towers and strong gates. Judah still belongs to us because we have obeyed the Lord our God. He has made us safe from our enemies all around us.’ So the people made these towns strong. Everything went well for them." 
2Chronicles14:8 Asa had an army of 300,000 men from Judah. They carried big shields and spears. He also had 280,000 men from Benjamin's tribe. Those men carried small shields and they could shoot arrows with their bows. They were all brave soldiers who could fight well." 
2Chronicles14:9 A man from Ethiopia called Zerah marched out to attack Judah. He had a very big army of a million soldiers and 300 chariots. When he reached Mareshah," 
2Chronicles14:10 Asa went out to fight against him. The two armies prepared to fight a battle in Zephathah Valley, near Mareshah." 
2Chronicles14:11 Then Asa called out to the Lord his God to help him. He prayed, ‘There is nobody like you, Lord. You have power to help a few weak people against many strong people. Help us, Lord our God, because we trust you. We want people to give honour to your name. That is why we have come to fight against this large army. Lord, you are our God. You cannot let these men win against you.’" 
2Chronicles14:12 So the Lord knocked down Zerah's soldiers as Asa and Judah's army attacked them. The Ethiopian soldiers ran away. 
2Chronicles14:13 Asa and his soldiers chased after them until they reached Gerar. So many Ethiopian soldiers died there that their army could not fight any more. The Lord and his army completely destroyed them. Judah's soldiers carried away lots of their enemies' things for themselves. 
2Chronicles14:14 The Lord caused the people in the towns near Gerar to become very afraid. So Judah's soldiers were able to attack those towns. There were many valuable things in all those towns and Judah's men took them away for themselves. 
2Chronicles14:15 They also attacked the tents of the people who took care of animals. They took away many sheep and camels from there. Then they returned to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles15:1 God's Spirit came to Oded's son Azariah. 
2Chronicles15:2 Azariah went to meet King Asa. He said to him, ‘Listen to me Asa and all you people of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. The Lord will be with you while you are faithful to him. If you ask him for help, he will answer you. But if you turn away from him, he will turn away from you." 
2Chronicles15:3 For a long time, the Israelites did not serve the true God. They did not have any priests to teach them what was right. They did not know God's Law." 
2Chronicles15:4 But when they were in trouble, they turned to the Lord, Israel's God. They asked him to help them and he answered them." 
2Chronicles15:5 At that time it was not safe to travel very far. There was too much trouble among the people of other countries. 
2Chronicles15:6 One nation would attack and destroy another nation. The people of one city destroyed other cities. God caused all this trouble to happen to those people. 
2Chronicles15:7 But you must be strong. Continue to be brave. God will make your work successful.’ 
2Chronicles15:8 Asa felt strong again when he heard God's message from Azariah, son of the prophet Oded. He removed the disgusting idols from the whole land of Judah and Benjamin. He also removed them from the towns that he had taken in the hill country of Ephraim. He repaired the Lord 's altar that was in the yard at the front of the Lord 's temple." 
2Chronicles15:9 Then King Asa brought all the people together who belonged to the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. He also brought people from the tribes of Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon who had come to live in Judah. Many people from the other tribes of Israel had come to Judah to serve King Asa. They had seen that the Lord his God was with him to help him." 
2Chronicles15:10 All these people met together in Jerusalem in the 15th year after Asa had become king. They met in the third month of the year. 
2Chronicles15:11 At that time they offered many animals to the Lord as sacrifices. They were animals that they had taken from their enemies. There were 700 bulls and 7,000 sheep." 
2Chronicles15:12 They made a serious promise that they would faithfully serve the Lord, the God of their ancestors." 
2Chronicles15:13 If anyone refused to worship the Lord, Israel's God, they would punish that person with death. They agreed to do that, whoever the person was, young or old, male or female." 
2Chronicles15:14 As they made this promise to the Lord, they shouted loudly to show that they agreed. They also made a loud noise with trumpets and sheep's horns." 
2Chronicles15:15 All Judah's people were happy to make this promise, because they truly wanted to serve the Lord. They wanted him to help them and he answered them. After that, the Lord made them safe from their enemies all around them." 
2Chronicles15:16 King Asa also told his grandmother Maakah that she could no longer have authority as the Queen Mother. This was because she had made a disgusting Asherah pole to worship. Asa cut down the Asherah pole and he burned it in the Kidron Valley. 
2Chronicles15:17 Asa did not remove the altars on all the hills in Israel, but he served the Lord faithfully for his whole life." 
2Chronicles15:18 He brought into God's temple the things that he and his father had made as gifts for God. They used silver and gold to make some of these things. 
2Chronicles15:19 There were no more wars in Judah until Asa had been king for 35 years. 
2Chronicles16:1 After Asa had been king of Judah for 36 years, King Baasha of Israel attacked Judah. He put a group of his soldiers in Ramah and he made it a strong town. As a result, nobody could travel into Judah or out of Judah, where King Asa ruled." 
2Chronicles16:2 Then Asa took all the silver and gold that they had stored in the Lord 's temple and in the king's palace. He sent it to Ben-Hadad, king of Syria, who lived in Damascus." 
2Chronicles16:3 He also sent this message to Ben-Hadad: ‘We should make an agreement to be friends, as our fathers did. I am sending you this silver and gold. Please stop being friends with Baasha, king of Israel. If you no longer help him, he will have to take his soldiers out of my country.’" 
2Chronicles16:4 Ben-Hadad agreed to do what King Asa asked him to do. He sent his army with its leaders to attack towns in Israel. They won the battles at Ijon, Dan, Abel-Maim and all the cities of Naphtali's tribe where they stored things." 
2Chronicles16:5 When King Baasha heard this news, he stopped the work in Ramah and he went away." 
2Chronicles16:6 Then King Asa told all the men in Judah to do some hard work. They had to carry away from Ramah all the big stones and the wood that Baasha had been using there. Then King Asa used those things to make Geba and Mizpah strong towns again. 
2Chronicles16:7 At that time, the prophet Hanani went to visit Asa, king of Judah. He said to him, ‘You asked the king of Syria to help you. You should have trusted the Lord your God to help you instead. Because of that, the army of Syria's king has escaped from your power." 
2Chronicles16:8 The armies of Ethiopia and Libya were very large. They had lots of chariots and soldiers who rode on horses. But you trusted the Lord when they attacked you, and he put them under your power." 
2Chronicles16:9 The Lord carefully watches over the whole earth. If people serve him faithfully, he makes them strong. But you have done a foolish thing. As a result, you will now always be fighting wars.’" 
2Chronicles16:10 Asa was angry with the prophet, so he put him in prison. At that time Asa also started to do cruel things to some people." 
2Chronicles16:11 All the things that happened while Asa was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of the kings of Judah and Israel’. 
2Chronicles16:12 When Asa had been king for 39 years, he had a disease in his feet. He became very ill, but he did not ask the Lord to help him. Instead, he asked doctors to make him well again." 
2Chronicles16:13 Asa died when he had been king for 41 years. 
2Chronicles16:14 His people buried him in the grave that he had prepared for himself in the City of David. They put him on a special bed that had spices and different kinds of perfume on it. They burned a large fire to give him honour. 
2Chronicles17:1 Asa's son Jehoshaphat became the next king of Judah. He made his kingdom strong to fight against Israel. 
2Chronicles17:2 He put soldiers in all Judah's cities that had walls around them and in other places in Judah. He also put soldiers in the towns of Ephraim that his father Asa had taken power over. 
2Chronicles17:3 Jehoshaphat obeyed the Lord as his ancestor David had done when he first ruled as king. So the Lord was with him to help him. Jehoshaphat did not worship the idols of Baal. 
2Chronicles17:4 Instead, he served the God that his father had served. He obeyed the Lord 's commands. He did not do the wrong things that Israel's people did." 
2Chronicles17:5 The Lord gave Jehoshaphat power over the kingdom of Judah. All Judah's people brought gifts to him. So Jehoshaphat became rich and people respected him. 
2Chronicles17:6 He served the Lord with all his strength. He removed from Judah the altars on the hills and the Asherah poles. 
2Chronicles17:7 In the third year that Jehoshaphat ruled Judah as king, he sent his officers to teach people in all Judah's towns. The names of those officers were Ben-Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah." 
2Chronicles17:7 In the third year that Jehoshaphat ruled Judah as king, he sent his officers to teach people in all Judah's towns. The names of those officers were Ben-Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah." 
2Chronicles17:7 In the third year that Jehoshaphat ruled Judah as king, he sent his officers to teach people in all Judah's towns. The names of those officers were Ben-Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah." 
2Chronicles17:8 He sent these Levites to go with them: Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tob-Adonijah. He also sent the priests, Elishama and Jehoram." 
2Chronicles17:9 These men travelled everywhere in Judah to teach people. They took with them the book which was a copy of the Lord 's Law. They used it to teach people in all Judah's towns. 
2Chronicles17:10 The people in all the kingdoms around Judah were afraid of the Lord 's power. So they did not want to fight a war against Jehoshaphat. 
2Chronicles17:11 Some Philistines brought silver and other gifts to Jehoshaphat to make him happy. People from Arabia also brought gifts to him. They brought 7,700 male sheep and 7,700 male goats." 
2Chronicles17:12 Jehoshaphat became more and more powerful. He built strong buildings and places to store things everywhere in Judah. 
2Chronicles17:13 He kept lots of things in Judah's towns. He had a big army of strong, brave soldiers in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles17:14 These are the groups of the soldiers in each clan: From Judah's tribe, the officer who led the soldiers was Adnah. He had authority over 300,000 soldiers, in groups of 1,000." 
2Chronicles17:15 The next officer was Jehohanan. He had authority over 280,000 soldiers." 
2Chronicles17:16 After him, the next officer was Zikri's son, Amasiah. He himself chose to serve the Lord in this way. He had authority over 200,000 soldiers." 
2Chronicles17:17 From Benjamin's tribe, the officer who led the soldiers was Eliada, a brave soldier. He had authority over 200,000 soldiers who had bows and arrows, as well as shields." 
2Chronicles17:18 After him, the next officer was Jehozabad. He had authority over 180,000 soldiers who had their weapons ready to fight." 
2Chronicles17:19 All these men served as the king's soldiers in Jerusalem. Jehoshaphat also had soldiers that he put in Judah's other strong cities. 
2Chronicles18:1 Jehoshaphat became very rich. People respected him very much. His son married King Ahab's daughter, so he and Ahab became friends." 
2Chronicles18:2 After some years, he went to visit Ahab in Samaria. Ahab killed many sheep and cows to give honour to Jehoshaphat and the people who were with him. Ahab wanted to attack Ramoth Gilead, so he asked Jehoshaphat to help him." 
2Chronicles18:3 King Ahab of Israel said to King Jehoshaphat of Judah, ‘Will you go with me to attack Ramoth Gilead?’ Jehoshaphat replied, ‘Yes, we should work together! Use my soldiers as if they belonged to you. My army will join with your army in the war.’" 
2Chronicles18:4 Then Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, ‘Before we go to fight, we must ask the Lord what we should do.’" 
2Chronicles18:5 So the king of Israel brought together 400 prophets. He asked them, ‘Should we attack Ramoth Gilead, or not?’ They answered, ‘Yes, go and attack it, because God will give it to you, our king.’" 
2Chronicles18:6 But Jehoshaphat then asked, ‘Is there any other prophet of the Lord that we could ask?’" 
2Chronicles18:7 The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, ‘There is still one other man. We could ask him what the Lord wants us to do. But I do not like him, because he never says that anything good will happen to me. He always says that I will have trouble. He is Imlah's son, Micaiah.’ Jehoshaphat said, ‘The king should not talk like that.’" 
2Chronicles18:8 So the king of Israel said to one of his officers, ‘Bring Imlah's son Micaiah here quickly.’" 
2Chronicles18:9 The king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, were each sitting on their thrones. They were wearing their royal clothes. They sat near the threshing floor at Samaria's city gate. All the prophets stood in front of them and they were speaking messages from God." 
2Chronicles18:10 Kenaanah's son Zedekiah had used iron to make sharp points like a bull's horns. He said, ‘This is what the Lord says: “With these sharp horns you will attack Syria's army. You will destroy them all.” ’" 
2Chronicles18:11 All the other prophets were speaking the same message. They said, ‘Attack Ramoth Gilead. You will win the fight. The Lord will give the city to you, our king.’" 
2Chronicles18:12 The man who had gone to bring Micaiah said to him, ‘All the other prophets are saying the same thing. They say that the king will win the fight. So you must agree with what they are saying. Promise that something good will happen.’" 
2Chronicles18:13 But Micaiah said, ‘I can only speak what my God tells me to say. As surely as the Lord lives, that is what I must do.’" 
2Chronicles18:14 When Micaiah arrived, the king asked him, ‘Micaiah, should we attack Ramoth Gilead or not?’ Micaiah answered, ‘Yes, attack it. You will surely win the fight. You will take power over the city.’" 
2Chronicles18:15 Then King Ahab said to Micaiah, ‘I have already told you many times to tell me only what is true! You must promise to do this in the name of the Lord!’" 
2Chronicles18:16 Then Micaiah said, ‘I saw the whole army of Israel and they were walking about on the hills without any leader. They were like sheep with no shepherd as their guide. The Lord told me, “These people have no master. They should go home quietly and they should not fight.” ’" 
2Chronicles18:17 The king of Israel said to King Jehoshaphat, ‘I told you what he would say! He never says that anything good will happen to me. He only says that I will have trouble.’" 
2Chronicles18:18 Then Micaiah said, ‘So now listen to the Lord 's message! I saw the Lord as he was sitting on his throne. The great crowd of his angels in heaven were standing around him, on his right side and on his left side." 
2Chronicles18:19 The Lord asked, “Who will go and deceive King Ahab of Israel so that he attacks Ramoth Gilead and he dies there?” Many of the angels suggested different things." 
2Chronicles18:20 Then a spirit came and stood in front of the Lord. The spirit said, “I will deceive Ahab.” The Lord asked, “How will you do it?”" 
2Chronicles18:21 The spirit said, “I will give a message to all Ahab's prophets. I will cause them to speak lies.” The Lord said, “Go and deceive King Ahab, as you have said. He will do what you say.”" 
2Chronicles18:22 So you see what has happened. The Lord has sent a spirit to these prophets who serve you. This spirit has caused them to speak lies. The Lord has decided that terrible trouble will happen to you.’ 
2Chronicles18:23 Then Kenaanah's son Zedekiah went to Micaiah. He hit Micaiah on his face. He asked Micaiah, ‘Do you say that the Lord 's spirit has gone away from me and has spoken to you instead? How did he do that?’" 
2Chronicles18:24 Micaiah answered him, ‘One day, you will know which of us has spoken the truth. That will be the day that you go to hide in a room at the back of a house.’" 
2Chronicles18:25 Then the king of Israel said to his men, ‘Take hold of Micaiah. Take him back to Amon, the city officer, and to Joash, the king's son." 
2Chronicles18:26 Say to them, “The king commands you to put this man in prison. Feed him with only a little bread and water until I return safely from the battle.” ’" 
2Chronicles18:27 Micaiah said, ‘If you do return safely, it will show that I have not spoken the Lord 's message.’ Then he said to all the people who were there, ‘Remember what I have said to King Ahab!’" 
2Chronicles18:28 So King Ahab of Israel and King Jehoshaphat of Judah went to attack Ramoth Gilead. 
2Chronicles18:29 King Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, ‘When we go into the battle, I will wear ordinary clothes. People will not recognize me as the king. But you should wear your royal clothes.’ So the king of Israel went into the battle as if he was an ordinary soldier." 
2Chronicles18:30 But the king of Syria had said to his chariot officers, ‘Only fight the king of Israel. Do not fight against anyone else, whoever they are.’" 
2Chronicles18:31 The chariot officers saw King Jehoshaphat in his royal clothes. So they thought, ‘That is the king of Israel!’ They turned towards him to attack him. Jehoshaphat shouted out and the Lord helped him. God caused the officers to turn away from him." 
2Chronicles18:32 The chariot officers realized that he was not the king of Israel. So they did not chase him any more. 
2Chronicles18:33 Then a Syrian soldier shot an arrow into the air. He did not try to shoot at anyone, but the arrow hit the king of Israel. The arrow went through a space in the king's armour. The king commanded the man who drove his chariot, ‘Turn the chariot around. Take me away from the battle. An arrow has hit me.’" 
2Chronicles18:34 The soldiers fought the battle all day. While they were fighting, King Ahab sat in his chariot where he could see the Syrian soldiers. Then, at sunset, he died." 
2Chronicles19:1 King Jehoshaphat of Judah returned safely to his home in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles19:2 The prophet Jehu, Hanani's son, went to meet him. He said to King Jehoshaphat, ‘You agreed to help a wicked man. You became the friend of someone who hates the Lord. You should not have done that. You have caused the Lord to be very angry with you." 
2Chronicles19:3 But you have done some good things. You have removed the Asherah poles from Judah's land. You have chosen to serve God.’ 
2Chronicles19:4 King Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem. He also travelled around the country to meet people. He went everywhere, from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim. He warned the people to turn back to the Lord, the God of their ancestors." 
2Chronicles19:5 He chose men to be judges. He put them everywhere in Judah, in each strong city." 
2Chronicles19:6 He said to them, ‘Be careful how you do your job. Remember that you are not being a judge to please men. You are doing it to please the Lord. He will help you to decide what is right." 
2Chronicles19:7 Respect the Lord 's authority. Be careful to do your job well. The Lord our God is always fair. So be fair to everyone, whoever they are. Do not cheat people. Do not accept bribes.’" 
2Chronicles19:8 Jehoshaphat also chose some Levites, priests and clan leaders to serve the Lord as judges in Jerusalem. They used God's Law to decide who was right when people who lived in Jerusalem had arguments." 
2Chronicles19:9 He said to them, ‘Serve the Lord faithfully and respect his authority." 
2Chronicles19:10 You must warn the people who come from their towns and they ask you to judge an argument for them. The argument may be about a murder, or about anyone who has not obeyed God's laws, rules and commands. Whatever it is, you must warn people not to do things that the Lord says are wrong. If you do not warn them, God will be angry with you and the people of Judah. But if you do warn them, you will not be guilty of a sin." 
2Chronicles19:11 Amariah, the most important priest, will have authority over you. He will tell you what the Lord 's law says is right. But if it is an argument about the king's laws, Ishmael's son Zebadiah, the officer who rules Judah, will decide what is right. The Levites will serve as your officers. Be brave and do your work well. The Lord will help you to do what is right!’" 
2Chronicles20:1 After that, armies from Moab and Ammon, as well as some Meunites, attacked Jehoshaphat." 
2Chronicles20:2 Some men brought this news to Jehoshaphat: ‘A large army is coming from the other side of the Salt Sea to attack you. They came from Edom and they are already in Hazezon Tamar.’ (That is another name for En Gedi.) 
2Chronicles20:3 Jehoshaphat was afraid. So he decided to ask the Lord what he should do. He commanded all the people in Judah that they must fast. 
2Chronicles20:4 Judah's people came together to ask the Lord for his help. They came from every town in Judah to pray to the Lord. 
2Chronicles20:5 Then Jehoshaphat stood up in front of the people of Jerusalem and the other places in Judah. He was standing in front of the new yard of the Lord 's temple. 
2Chronicles20:6 He prayed, ‘ Lord, you are the God of our ancestors. You are the God who is in heaven and you rule over all kingdoms and nations. You are strong and powerful. Nobody can fight against you and win." 
2Chronicles20:7 Our God, you chased out the people who were living in this land, so that your people, the Israelites, could move in. You have given this land to the descendants of your friend Abraham. It belongs to them for ever." 
2Chronicles20:8 Your people made their homes here and they built a temple to give honour to your name. When they built it, they said," 
2Chronicles20:9 “In the future, we may have trouble. There might be war, disease, famine or some other punishment. If that happens, we will come to you and we will stand in front of this temple. You have chosen this place to be your home. We will call out to you to help us when we are in trouble. Then you will hear us and you will rescue us.”" 
2Chronicles20:10 But now soldiers from Ammon, Moab and Edom are coming to attack us. When the Israelites were escaping from Egypt, you would not allow them to attack those lands. So our people turned away and they did not destroy those people." 
2Chronicles20:11 But now those people want to destroy us! They are coming to chase us out of the land that you gave to us as our home. 
2Chronicles20:12 So, our God, please punish these people! We are not strong enough to fight against this large army that is attacking us. We do not know what to do. But we are asking you to help us.’" 
2Chronicles20:13 As King Jehoshaphat prayed, all the men of Judah were standing there at the temple. They had their babies, their wives and their children with them." 
2Chronicles20:14 Then the Lord 's Spirit came with power to Jahaziel as he stood among the people. Jahaziel was a Levite, a descendant of Asaph. He was the son of Zechariah, who was the son of Benaiah, who was the son of Jeiel, who was the son of Mattaniah." 
2Chronicles20:14 Then the Lord 's Spirit came with power to Jahaziel as he stood among the people. Jahaziel was a Levite, a descendant of Asaph. He was the son of Zechariah, who was the son of Benaiah, who was the son of Jeiel, who was the son of Mattaniah." 
2Chronicles20:15 Jahaziel said, ‘Listen to me all you people of Judah. That includes you people who live in Jerusalem, and King Jehoshaphat too. The Lord says to you, “Do not be afraid because this large army is coming to attack you. You must be brave! This is God's battle, not your battle." 
2Chronicles20:16 Tomorrow, you must march out of here to attack them. They will be coming up the road through the hills at Ziz. You will meet them at the end of the narrow valley that is on the east side of the Jeruel desert." 
2Chronicles20:17 You will not have to fight in this battle. Go to your places and stand still. Then you will see the Lord rescue you. People of Judah and Jerusalem, do not be afraid. Be brave! Tomorrow you must march out of here towards the enemy army. The Lord is with you!” ’" 
2Chronicles20:18 Then Jehoshaphat bent down with his face towards the ground. All the people of Judah and the people who lived in Jerusalem also bent down to worship the Lord. 
2Chronicles20:19 Then some Levites stood up. They praised the Lord, Israel's God, with loud voices. They belonged to the clans of Kohath and Korah." 
2Chronicles20:20 Early the next morning, Jehoshaphat prepared to leave with his army. They started to march to the Tekoa desert. When they were ready to leave, Jehoshaphat stood up and he said, ‘Listen to me, people of Judah and people who live in Jerusalem! Trust in the Lord your God. Then you will be safe. Believe the message that his prophets have spoken. Then you will win the battle.’" 
2Chronicles20:21 Jehoshaphat spoke with the people. He chose some musicians to march in front of his army. They sang songs to worship the Lord and to praise him for his holy power. As they marched, they sang, ‘We thank the Lord! His faithful love continues for ever!’" 
2Chronicles20:22 As the musicians began to sing, the Lord suddenly made the soldiers of Judah's enemies confused." 
2Chronicles20:23 The soldiers from Ammon and Moab started to attack the soldiers from Edom. They destroyed Edom's army. When they had done that, they started to fight against each other. So they all destroyed one another." 
2Chronicles20:24 Judah's soldiers came to a tower from where they could see the desert. They looked at the large army of their enemies. But they could not see any soldier who was still alive! They only saw dead bodies that were lying on the ground. 
2Chronicles20:25 So Jehoshaphat and his men went to take things from the dead soldiers. They found a lot of weapons, clothes and other valuable things. They took as many things as they could carry. There were so many things that it took them three days to take them all away." 
2Chronicles20:26 On the fourth day they all met together in Berakah Valley. There they praised the Lord. That is why that place is still called Berakah Valley. 
2Chronicles20:27 Then all the men of Judah and Jerusalem returned to Jerusalem. Jehoshaphat marched in front of them. They were very happy because the Lord had helped them. He had caused them to win the fight against their enemies. 
2Chronicles20:28 As they went into Jerusalem, they made music with harps, lyres and trumpets. They went to the Lord 's temple." 
2Chronicles20:29 People in all the kingdoms around Judah heard that the Lord had fought against Israel's enemies. So they became afraid of God's power. 
2Chronicles20:30 There was a time of peace in Jehoshaphat's kingdom. God kept them safe from the nations all around. 
2Chronicles20:31 So Jehoshaphat continued to rule Judah as king. He was 35 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 25 years. His mother's name was Azubah. She was the daughter of Shilhi. 
2Chronicles20:32 Jehoshaphat lived in the good way that his father Asa had lived. He only did things that the Lord says are right. 
2Chronicles20:33 But he did not remove all the altars that were on the hills. The people still did not want to be completely faithful to the God of their ancestors. 
2Chronicles20:34 The other things that happened while Jehoshaphat was king are written in a book. Hanani's son Jehu recorded all of them in his book, which is part of ‘The history of Israel's kings’." 
2Chronicles20:35 While Jehoshaphat was king, he became a friend of King Ahaziah of Israel, who did evil things." 
2Chronicles20:36 They agreed to build big ships that would bring things from countries that were far away. They built the ships in Ezion-Geber. 
2Chronicles20:37 Dodavahu's son Eliezer from Mareshah warned Jehoshaphat with a message from the Lord. He said, ‘You should not have become a friend of Ahaziah. Because of that, the Lord will destroy the things that you have made.’ A storm destroyed the ships and they never went anywhere." 
2Chronicles21:1 Jehoshaphat died and they buried him beside his ancestors in the City of David. Jehoshaphat's son Jehoram became king after him. 
2Chronicles21:2 Jehoram had brothers who were also sons of Jehoshaphat. They were Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariahu, Michael and Shephatiah. All these men were sons of King Jehoshaphat of Judah." 
2Chronicles21:2 Jehoram had brothers who were also sons of Jehoshaphat. They were Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariahu, Michael and Shephatiah. All these men were sons of King Jehoshaphat of Judah." 
2Chronicles21:3 Their father had given them many gifts of silver, gold and other valuable things. He gave them authority over the strong cities of Judah. But Jehoshaphat chose Jehoram to be the next king because he was his oldest son." 
2Chronicles21:4 Jehoram made himself a strong king to rule over his father's kingdom. Then he killed all his brothers, as well as some of the Israelite leaders." 
2Chronicles21:5 He was 32 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. 
2Chronicles21:6 He lived in the same bad way that the kings of Israel did. He did what the family of Ahab had done. He married a daughter of King Ahab and he became as wicked as King Ahab's family was. He did things that the Lord said were evil. 
2Chronicles21:7 But the Lord did not want to destroy all David's descendants, because of his promise to David. He had promised that King David would always have descendants who would rule the nation." 
2Chronicles21:8 While Jehoram was king, Edom's people turned against Judah. They would no longer accept the king of Judah's authority over them. They decided to have their own king." 
2Chronicles21:9 So King Jehoram travelled to Zair with his army officers and all his chariots. The Edomite army came and they were all around him. But that night, Jehoram and his officers attacked the Edomites and they escaped." 
2Chronicles21:10 Even today, Edom's people do not obey the rulers of Judah. The people of Libnah city also turned against Judah at the same time. That happened because Jehoram had turned away from the Lord, the God of his ancestors." 
2Chronicles21:11 Jehoram also built altars on the hills of Judah. He caused the people of Judah and Jerusalem to turn away from the Lord and worship false gods. 
2Chronicles21:12 The prophet Elijah wrote a letter to Jehoram. This is what it said: ‘The Lord, the God of your ancestor David says, “You have not lived in a good way as your father Jehoshaphat did and as King Asa of Judah did." 
2Chronicles21:13 Instead, you have lived in the way that the kings of Israel live. You have caused the people of Judah and Jerusalem to turn away from the Lord and worship false gods. That is the same as King Ahab's family has done in Israel. You have also killed your own brothers, your father's sons. They were better men than you are." 
2Chronicles21:14 So now the Lord will send terrible trouble on your people, including your children, your wives and everything that belongs to you." 
2Chronicles21:15 You will have a bad disease. You will have terrible pain in your stomach that becomes worse and worse. Finally, your inside parts will come out of your body.” ’" 
2Chronicles21:16 There were some Philistines and Arabs who lived near people from Ethiopia. The Lord caused them to be angry with Jehoram. 
2Chronicles21:17 They attacked Judah and they took power over the land. They took away all the valuable things in the king's palace. They took his sons and his wives as their prisoners. The only son of Jehoram that remained was his youngest son, Ahaziah." 
2Chronicles21:18 After all this happened, the Lord caused Jehoram to have a bad disease in his stomach. He could not become well again." 
2Chronicles21:19 He was very ill for two years, and then his inside parts came out because of the illness. So he had a lot of pain until he died. His people did not make a big fire to give him honour, as they had done for his ancestors." 
2Chronicles21:20 Jehoram was 32 years old when he started to rule. He ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. When he died, nobody was sad. They buried him in the City of David, but not in the place where they had buried the other kings." 
2Chronicles22:1 The people who lived in Jerusalem chose Jehoram's youngest son, Ahaziah, to become king. The group of men who came into the city with some Arabs had killed all Jehoram's older sons. So Jehoram's son Ahaziah became the king of Judah." 
2Chronicles22:2 Ahaziah was 22 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for one year. His mother's name was Athaliah. She was a granddaughter of Omri, king of Israel." 
2Chronicles22:3 Ahaziah lived in the same bad way that Ahab's family had done. His mother taught him to do wicked things. 
2Chronicles22:4 He did things that the Lord said were evil, as Ahab's family had done. Ahab's family became advisors to Ahaziah after his father died, and they caused Ahaziah's death." 
2Chronicles22:5 They told him to join with Ahab's son, King Joram of Israel, to fight against King Hazael of Syria. They fought a battle at Ramoth Gilead. The Syrian army won the fight and they hurt King Joram." 
2Chronicles22:6 Joram returned to Jezreel after the battle, so that his wounds would stop hurting him. While he was there, King Ahaziah of Judah went to visit him, because of his wounds." 
2Chronicles22:7 When Ahaziah visited Joram, God used it to cause Ahaziah's death. When Ahaziah arrived, he went with Joram to meet Nimshi's son Jehu. But the Lord had chosen Jehu to kill all Ahab's family." 
2Chronicles22:8 While Jehu was destroying Ahab's family, he met some of the officers of Judah who had come with Ahaziah. Jehu killed them, as well as some of Ahaziah's relatives who had travelled with him." 
2Chronicles22:9 Then he went to look for Ahaziah. Jehu's men caught him in the city of Samaria, where he was hiding. They took him to Jehu. Then they punished him with death. They buried him properly, because they said, ‘He was the grandson of King Jehoshaphat who served the Lord faithfully.’ Now there was nobody in Ahaziah's family who had the authority to rule Judah as king." 
2Chronicles22:10 Ahaziah's mother Athaliah heard the news that her son was dead. So she started to kill everyone in Judah's royal family. 
2Chronicles22:11 But King Jehoram's daughter Jehosheba rescued Ahaziah's son Joash. When Athaliah's servants had come to murder the royal sons, Jehosheba took Joash away and she hid him. She put him in a bedroom in the temple with his nurse. Jehosheba was Ahaziah's sister and she was the wife of Jehoiada, the priest. So she hid Joash from Athaliah to stop her from killing him." 
2Chronicles22:12 Joash stayed safely in a room in God's temple while Queen Athaliah ruled Judah for six years. 
2Chronicles23:1 In the seventh year that Queen Athaliah ruled Judah, the priest Jehoiada decided to be brave. He made an agreement with some officers in the army. Each of these men had authority over 100 soldiers. They were: Jeroham's son Azariah, Jehohanan's son Ishmael, Obed's son Azariah, Adaiah's son Maaseiah and Zikri's son Elishaphat." 
2Chronicles23:2 They travelled around all the land of Judah. They brought together the Levites from the different cities and the leaders of Israel's clans. They all came to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles23:3 They met together in God's temple to make a promise to the new king. Jehoiada said to them, ‘Here is the king's son. He must become king, as the Lord promised that David's descendants would be." 
2Chronicles23:4 This is what you must do: The priests and Levites who come to work on the Sabbath day must make three groups. One group must be guards who watch at the doors of the temple. 
2Chronicles23:5 Another group will watch at the king's palace. The third group will stand at the Foundation Gate. All the other men will stand in the yards around the Lord 's temple. 
2Chronicles23:6 Only the priests and the Levites who have work there on that day may go into the Lord 's temple. They may go in because they have made themselves clean to serve God. All the other people must do the jobs that the Lord has given to them. 
2Chronicles23:7 The Levites must stand around the king. Each man must hold his weapon in his hand. If anyone tries to come into the temple, you must kill them. You must stay near to the king everywhere that he goes.’" 
2Chronicles23:8 The Levites and all the men of Judah did what Jehoiada the priest told them to do. Each officer brought his group of men. That included the men who worked on the Sabbath and those who did not. Jehoiada the priest did not allow any of the groups of men to go home. 
2Chronicles23:9 Then Jehoiada gave some weapons that were in God's temple to the officers. He gave them the spears and the shields that had belonged to King David. 
2Chronicles23:10 Then he put the men in their proper places around the king. They all held their weapons in their hands. They stood in a line from the south side of the temple to the north side. They were around the altar at the front of the temple. 
2Chronicles23:11 Jehoiada and his sons brought the king's son, Joash, out of the temple room. They put the crown onto his head. They gave him a copy of the royal covenant. They poured olive oil on his head to show that he was now the king. They shouted, ‘May the king have a long life!’" 
2Chronicles23:12 Queen Athaliah heard the soldiers and the people as they shouted and praised the new king. So she went to the Lord 's temple where all the people were. 
2Chronicles23:13 Then she saw the king! He was standing in the king's place beside the pillar at the entrance of the temple. The army officers and the men with trumpets were standing beside the king. All the people of Judah were shouting with joy. There were musicians making music with trumpets and other musical instruments. They helped the people to sing and to praise God. When Athaliah saw this, she was very upset. She tore her clothes. She shouted, ‘Treason! Treason!’" 
2Chronicles23:14 Jehoiada the priest sent a message to the army officers who had authority over groups of 100 soldiers. He told them, ‘Bring her out of the temple to the line of guards outside. Use your swords to kill anyone who follows her.’ That was because Jehoiada had said, ‘You must not kill her inside the Lord 's temple.’" 
2Chronicles23:15 So they took hold of Athaliah. They took her through the gate for the king's horses into the yard of the palace. They killed her there. 
2Chronicles23:16 Jehoiada prepared a covenant with the Lord. He, all the people and the king agreed to serve the Lord as his people." 
2Chronicles23:17 All the people went to the temple of Baal. They destroyed it. They completely knocked down its altars and idols. They killed Baal's priest, Mattan, in front of Baal's altars." 
2Chronicles23:18 Then Jehoiada gave jobs to the priests and the Levites to do in the Lord 's temple. That was the work that King David had told them to do in the temple. They had to offer burnt offerings as sacrifices to the Lord, and they had to praise him with happy songs. They did the things that Moses had written in God's Law and that David had taught." 
2Chronicles23:19 Jehoiada put guards at the gates of the Lord 's temple. They would stop anyone who was unclean from going in. 
2Chronicles23:20 Jehoiada called together the officers of army groups, the important men, the government officers and all the other people. Jehoiada led them all to bring the king down from the Lord 's temple into the palace. They went into the palace through the Higher Gate. They put Joash on the royal throne as king." 
2Chronicles23:21 All the people were very happy. There was no longer any trouble in Jerusalem now that they had killed Athaliah as her punishment. 
2Chronicles24:1 Joash was seven years old when he became the king of Judah. He ruled in Jerusalem for 40 years. His mother was Zibiah, who came from Beersheba." 
2Chronicles24:2 Joash did things that pleased the Lord. He continued to do that all the time that Jehoiada the priest was alive. 
2Chronicles24:3 Jehoiada chose two women for Joash to marry. They gave birth to sons and daughters for him. 
2Chronicles24:4 After some time, Joash decided to repair the Lord 's temple." 
2Chronicles24:5 He brought together the priests and the Levites. He told them, ‘Go around to all the towns in Judah. Bring here all the money that Israel's people offer each year for the temple. We will use it to repair the temple of your God. Go quickly and do it now!’ But the Levites did not do it immediately." 
2Chronicles24:6 So the king told Jehoiada, the leader of the priests, to come to him. He said to him, ‘You have not told the Levites to bring the money that the people of Judah and Jerusalem have given. Why have you not done that? The Lord 's servant Moses and all Israel's people made the rule that people should give the money each year. It would be a tax to help with the tent of God's covenant.’" 
2Chronicles24:7 The sons of wicked Queen Athaliah had broken the door of God's temple. They had gone in there and they had taken the holy things. They had used them to worship the idols of Baal. That is why Joash wanted to repair the Lord 's temple. 
2Chronicles24:8 The king told the Levites to make a big box. They put it outside the gate of the Lord 's temple. 
2Chronicles24:9 Then he sent a command to everyone in Jerusalem and in the rest of Judah. He told them to bring the money to pay their tax to the Lord. That was the tax that God's servant Moses had told the Israelites that they should pay when they were in the wilderness. 
2Chronicles24:10 All the officers and all the people were happy to give this money. They brought it to Jerusalem and they threw it into the box, until the box was full." 
2Chronicles24:11 Every time that the box became full of money, the Levites took it to the king's officers. Then the king's secretary and the officer who served the leader of the priests took the money out of the box. Then they put the box outside the temple gate again. They did that every day, so that they had a lot of money." 
2Chronicles24:12 The king and Jehoiada gave the money to the men who would take care of the work on the Lord 's temple. They paid men who could work with stone and wood to repair the temple. They also paid men who knew how to work with iron and bronze for this work. 
2Chronicles24:13 These workers worked well so that they soon finished the work. They built the temple to be very strong, in the way that it should be." 
2Chronicles24:14 When they had finished, there was some money that remained. So the workers took the money to the king and to Jehoiada. They decided to make tools to use in the temple. There were things that the priests used to serve the Lord in the temple, and to offer burnt offerings. They used gold and silver to make dishes and other things. While Jehoiada was still alive, the priests always made burnt offerings as sacrifices to the Lord in his temple." 
2Chronicles24:15 But Jehoiada became very old and he died when he was 130 years old. 
2Chronicles24:16 They buried him beside the kings in the City of David. They gave him that honour, because he had done many good things in Israel for God and for the temple." 
2Chronicles24:17 After the priest Jehoiada died, the important officers of Judah came to the king. They bent down low in front of him to give him honour. The king listened to their advice." 
2Chronicles24:18 They stopped worshipping the Lord, the God of their ancestors, in his temple. Instead, they worshipped Asherah poles and idols. So God became very angry with the people of Judah and Jerusalem, because they were guilty of these sins." 
2Chronicles24:19 The Lord sent his prophets to tell the people to turn back to him. They warned the people, but the people would not listen to them." 
2Chronicles24:20 Then God's Spirit came to Jehoiada's son Zechariah with power. Zechariah stood in front of the people and he said, ‘This is what God says: “You are not obeying the Lord 's commands. So nothing will go well for you. You have turned away from the Lord, so now he has turned away from you!” ’" 
2Chronicles24:20 Then God's Spirit came to Jehoiada's son Zechariah with power. Zechariah stood in front of the people and he said, ‘This is what God says: “You are not obeying the Lord 's commands. So nothing will go well for you. You have turned away from the Lord, so now he has turned away from you!” ’" 
2Chronicles24:21 The people decided to punish Zechariah. The king gave a command to punish him with death. So they threw stones at him to kill him in the yard of the Lord 's temple. 
2Chronicles24:21 The people decided to punish Zechariah. The king gave a command to punish him with death. So they threw stones at him to kill him in the yard of the Lord 's temple. 
2Chronicles24:22 King Joash forgot that Zechariah's father Jehoiada had been a faithful servant. He killed Jehoiada's son. Zechariah said, as he was dying, ‘I pray that the Lord sees what you have done! May he punish you because of it!’" 
2Chronicles24:22 King Joash forgot that Zechariah's father Jehoiada had been a faithful servant. He killed Jehoiada's son. Zechariah said, as he was dying, ‘I pray that the Lord sees what you have done! May he punish you because of it!’" 
2Chronicles24:23 At the end of that year, Syria's army attacked Judah and Jerusalem, where Joash lived. They killed all the leaders of Judah's people. They took many valuable things to send to their king in Damascus." 
2Chronicles24:24 Syria's army was very small but the Lord gave them power over Judah's large army. He did that because Judah's people had turned away from the Lord, the God of their ancestors. Syria's army punished Joash as he deserved." 
2Chronicles24:25 Joash had received bad wounds in the battle. When Syria's army went away, Joash's officers decided to kill him. They were angry because he had killed Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada the priest. So they murdered him in his bed. The two officers who did this were Zabad and Jehozabad. Zabad's mother was Shimeath, who came from Ammon. Jehozabad's mother was Shimrith, who came from Moab. Joash's people buried him in the City of David. But they did not bury him beside the graves of the other kings." 
2Chronicles24:25 Joash had received bad wounds in the battle. When Syria's army went away, Joash's officers decided to kill him. They were angry because he had killed Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada the priest. So they murdered him in his bed. The two officers who did this were Zabad and Jehozabad. Zabad's mother was Shimeath, who came from Ammon. Jehozabad's mother was Shimrith, who came from Moab. Joash's people buried him in the City of David. But they did not bury him beside the graves of the other kings." 
2Chronicles24:26  
2Chronicles24:27 The things that happened while Joash was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of the kings’. It includes a list of Joash's sons, and the many messages that prophets spoke about him. It also includes a report of the work which he did on God's temple. Joash's son Amaziah became king after him." 
2Chronicles25:1 Amaziah was 25 years old when he began to rule as king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Jehoaddin. She was from Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles25:2 He did things that the Lord said were good. But he was not completely faithful. 
2Chronicles25:3 Amaziah made himself strong to rule his kingdom with authority. Then he killed the officers who had murdered his father, King Joash." 
2Chronicles25:4 But he did not punish their sons with death. He obeyed the Lord 's command that was written in the Book of the Law of Moses. The command says, ‘Do not punish fathers with death when their sons do bad things. Do not punish children with death when their fathers do bad things. Each person must die only because of his own sins.’" 
2Chronicles25:5 Then Amaziah brought all the people of Judah together. For each of their clans he chose officers to lead groups of 1,000 men and groups of 100 men. He did that for the clans of Judah's tribe and the clans of Benjamin's tribe. He counted all the men who were 20 years old or older who could fight with spears and shields. There were 300,000 of them." 
2Chronicles25:6 He also paid 3,500 kilograms of silver for 100,000 soldiers from Israel to join his army." 
2Chronicles25:7 But a prophet went to meet Amaziah and he said, ‘Please sir, do not take these soldiers from Israel to go and fight beside your own soldiers. The Lord has turned away from the tribe of Ephraim and all of Israel." 
2Chronicles25:8 The Lord will allow your enemies to win against you, even if you fight very well. God has the power to help you, but he can also cause your enemies to win against you.’" 
2Chronicles25:9 Amaziah said to God's prophet, ‘But I have paid 3,500 kilograms of silver for these soldiers from Israel. What should I do about that?’ The prophet replied, ‘The Lord is able to give you much more than all that money!’" 
2Chronicles25:10 So Amaziah sent away the soldiers who had come from Ephraim. He told them to go back to their homes. So they became very angry with Judah's people. As they went home, they had angry thoughts." 
2Chronicles25:11 Amaziah was brave. He led his army to Salt Valley. There they killed 10,000 soldiers from Edom." 
2Chronicles25:12 They also caught 10,000 soldiers as their prisoners. They took them to the top of a high rock. They threw their prisoners from the top. They all fell down onto the rocks below and they died." 
2Chronicles25:13 But the soldiers from Israel that Amaziah had sent home attacked some towns in Judah. They were angry because Amaziah had not allowed them to join his army in the battle. They killed 3,000 men in Judah's towns between Samaria and Beth Horon. They took away many valuable things from those towns." 
2Chronicles25:14 After Amaziah's army had killed the soldiers from Edom, he returned to Judah. He brought back some idols of the gods that the people of Edom worshipped. He started to worship them as his own gods. He offered sacrifices to them." 
2Chronicles25:15 So the Lord became angry with Amaziah. He sent a prophet to him with a message. The prophet said to Amaziah, ‘You should not worship these foreign gods! They could not even save their own people from your power!’" 
2Chronicles25:16 While the prophet was still speaking, the king said to him, ‘We did not choose you to be the king's advisor! If you do not stop speaking, my men will kill you.’ So the prophet stopped. But then he said, ‘I know what God has decided to do. He will destroy you because you have done these bad things and you have not listened to my advice.’" 
2Chronicles25:17 Then King Amaziah of Judah met with his advisors. Then he sent a message to King Jehoash of Israel. He was the son of Jehoahaz and the grandson of Jehu. King Amaziah's message said, ‘Come here and meet me!’" 
2Chronicles25:18 But King Jehoash of Israel sent this message back to King Amaziah of Judah: ‘In Lebanon, a thorn bush sent this message to a cedar tree: “Please give your daughter to my son, to be his wife.” Then a wild animal of Lebanon came and knocked down the thorn bush. It walked all over it!" 
2Chronicles25:19 You are proud that you have won the fight against Edom. But do not boast about your power! You may be very happy, but stay at home! Do not try to fight against us. If you do that, you will cause trouble that destroys both you and your kingdom, Judah.’" 
2Chronicles25:20 But Amaziah did not accept Jehoash's message. God had decided to put him under the power of his enemies because he worshipped the gods of Edom. 
2Chronicles25:21 So King Jehoash of Israel prepared to attack Amaziah's army. Jehoash and Amaziah met together in battle at Beth Shemesh, a town in Judah." 
2Chronicles25:22 Israel's army won the battle against Judah's army. All the soldiers from Judah ran back home. 
2Chronicles25:23 At Beth Shemesh, King Jehoash of Israel caught the king of Judah, Amaziah, the son of Joash and the grandson of Ahaziah. King Jehoash took him to Jerusalem. He destroyed the wall of Jerusalem, between the Ephraim Gate and the Corner Gate. That part of the wall was 180 metres long." 
2Chronicles25:24 He took away all the gold and the silver from the temple, including the valuable things that Obed-Edom was taking care of. Jehoash also took the valuable things from the king's palace. He also took some of the people away with him as prisoners. Then he returned to Samaria." 
2Chronicles25:25 Joash's son Amaziah, the king of Judah, lived for 15 years after Jehoahaz's son Jehoash, the king of Israel, died." 
2Chronicles25:26 All the other things that happened while Amaziah was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of the kings of Judah and Israel’. 
2Chronicles25:27 After Amaziah had turned away from the Lord, some people in Jerusalem made a plan to kill him. So he ran away to Lachish. But the people in Jerusalem sent men to catch him in Lachish. They killed Amaziah there." 
2Chronicles25:28 They carried his dead body back to Jerusalem on a horse. They buried him there beside his ancestors in the city of Judah. 
2Chronicles26:1 All the people of Judah chose Uzziah to be their king instead of his father, King Amaziah. Uzziah was 16 years old." 
2Chronicles26:2 He built Elath again after King Amaziah had died. He made it a part of Judah again. 
2Chronicles26:3 Uzziah was 16 years old when he became king. And he ruled in Jerusalem for 52 years. His mother's name was Jecoliah. She came from Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles26:4 Uzziah did things that the Lord said were good, as his father Amaziah had done." 
2Chronicles26:5 He served God faithfully all the time that Zechariah was alive. Zechariah taught him to respect and obey God. As long as Uzziah served the Lord faithfully, God gave him success." 
2Chronicles26:5 He served God faithfully all the time that Zechariah was alive. Zechariah taught him to respect and obey God. As long as Uzziah served the Lord faithfully, God gave him success." 
2Chronicles26:6 Uzziah took his army to attack the Philistines. He destroyed the walls of their cities, Gath, Jabneh and Ashdod. Then he made the towns near Ashdod strong, as well as other towns where the Philistines lived." 
2Chronicles26:7 God helped him to win battles against the Philistines, against the Arabs who lived in Gur-Baal, and against the Meunites." 
2Chronicles26:8 The people from Ammon paid taxes to Uzziah. He became very powerful. So everyone as far as the border of Egypt knew that he was a great king. 
2Chronicles26:9 Uzziah built strong towers on Jerusalem's walls to make the city safe. He built them at the Corner Gate, at the Valley Gate and at the place where the wall turned." 
2Chronicles26:10 He also built towers in the desert. He dug holes in the ground to contain water. He needed water for his animals on the low hills and in the valleys, because he had many of them. He also enjoyed growing crops. He had men who worked in the fields and in the vineyards. These were on the hills and in places where crops would grow well." 
2Chronicles26:11 Uzziah had an army of soldiers who were ready to fight battles. The king's secretary, Jeiel, and his officer, Maaseiah, put the soldiers into groups. They counted the soldiers in each group. Hananiah was the army captain who had authority over them." 
2Chronicles26:12 There were 2,600 family leaders who led the groups of soldiers." 
2Chronicles26:13 Together they led 307,500 soldiers who knew how to fight well. They were a powerful army that could keep the king safe against his enemies." 
2Chronicles26:14 Uzziah gave shields, spears, helmets and armour to the whole army. He also gave them bows and arrows, and stones to put in their slings." 
2Chronicles26:15 Men in Jerusalem who had special skills built machines that could shoot arrows and big stones. Uzziah put them on the towers and at the corners of the walls around Jerusalem. God helped him in many ways, so that he became very famous and powerful." 
2Chronicles26:16 Uzziah was so powerful that he became proud. That caused him to lose his power. He began to turn away from the Lord his God. He went into the Lord 's temple to burn incense on the special altar there. 
2Chronicles26:17 Azariah and 80 other brave priests of the Lord went into the temple after him. 
2Chronicles26:18 They warned King Uzziah. They said to him, ‘It is not right for you, Uzziah, to offer incense to the Lord. Only the priests, Aaron's descendants, may do that. They are the people that God has chosen to offer incense to him. So you must leave this Holy Place because you have done something that is wrong. As a result, the Lord God will not give you any honour.’" 
2Chronicles26:19 Then Uzziah became angry. In his hand, he was holding a pot with hot coals and incense in it. He was standing in the Lord 's temple, near the special altar for incense. The priests were there with him. When he started to shout at the priests, a bad disease suddenly appeared on the skin of his face." 
2Chronicles26:20 Azariah, the leader of the priests, and all the other priests turned towards Uzziah. They saw the terrible disease on the skin at the front of his head. So they quickly took him out of the temple. Uzziah himself was also in a hurry to leave, because the Lord had punished him with this disease." 
2Chronicles26:21 King Uzziah had the terrible disease on his skin until the day that he died. He lived in his own house, away from other people. He could not go into the Lord 's temple because of his disease. His son Jotham had authority in the palace and he ruled the people of Judah." 
2Chronicles26:22 All the other things that happened while Uzziah was king are written in a book. The prophet Isaiah, Amoz's son, wrote down those things." 
2Chronicles26:22 All the other things that happened while Uzziah was king are written in a book. The prophet Isaiah, Amoz's son, wrote down those things." 
2Chronicles26:23 Uzziah died and they buried him near his ancestors. Because he had the terrible disease on his skin, they did not bury him beside the other kings that had died. Instead they buried him in a field for graves that belonged to the kings of Judah. His son Jotham became king after him." 
2Chronicles27:1 Jotham was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled Judah as king in Jerusalem for 16 years. His mother's name was Jerusha. She was Zadok's daughter. 
2Chronicles27:2 Jotham did things that the Lord said were good, as his father Uzziah had done. But he did not try to go into the Lord 's temple and offer incense, as his father had done. But the people continued to do bad things." 
2Chronicles27:3 Jotham built the Higher Gate of the Lord 's temple. He also did a lot of work to repair the city wall near Ophel hill. 
2Chronicles27:4 He built towns in the hill country of Judah. He also built strong buildings and towers in the forests. 
2Chronicles27:5 Jotham took his army to attack the king of Ammon. He won the battle against them. That year, the Ammonites gave him 3,400 kilograms of silver. They also gave him 2,200 kilolitres of wheat and 2,200 kilolitres of barley. The Ammonites paid Jotham the same amount for each of the next two years." 
2Chronicles27:6 Jotham became a powerful king because he faithfully obeyed the Lord his God. 
2Chronicles27:7 The other things that happened while Jotham was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of the kings of Israel and Judah’. It tells about the wars that Jotham fought and the other things that he did. 
2Chronicles27:8 He was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled Judah as king in Jerusalem for 16 years. 
2Chronicles27:9 Jotham died and his people buried him in the City of David. His son Ahaz became king after him. 
2Chronicles28:1 Ahaz was 20 years old when he became king. He ruled Judah as king in Jerusalem for 16 years. He did not do the things that the Lord said were good. So he was not like his ancestor, King David." 
2Chronicles28:2 He lived in the same bad way that the kings of Israel did. He also used metal to make images of the god Baal. 
2Chronicles28:3 He offered sacrifices in Ben-Hinnom Valley. He even caused his sons to walk through fire. In this way he copied the terrible sins of the other nations in Canaan. Those were the nations that the Lord had chased out so that the Israelites could live there. 
2Chronicles28:4 Ahaz offered sacrifices and he burned incense on altars on the hills, as well as under all the big trees." 
2Chronicles28:5 Because of this, the Lord his God put Ahaz under the power of the king of Syria. Syria's army won a battle against Ahaz's men. The king of Syria took many of Ahaz's people to Damascus as his prisoners. The Lord also allowed the king of Israel to attack Ahaz. Israel's soldiers completely won the battle against Ahaz." 
2Chronicles28:6 In one day, King Pekah of Israel, Remaliah's son, killed 120,000 of Judah's best soldiers. God punished the people of Judah because they had turned away from the Lord, the God of their ancestors." 
2Chronicles28:7 Zikri, a brave soldier from Ephraim's tribe, killed Maaseiah, King Ahaz's son. He also killed Azrikam, the officer with authority over the king's palace, and Elkanah, the king's most important officer." 
2Chronicles28:8 The Israelites took hold of 200,000 wives, sons and daughters of Judah's soldiers. They took them as their prisoners, even though they were their relatives. They also carried away to Samaria a lot of valuable things." 
2Chronicles28:9 Oded, a prophet of the Lord, lived in Samaria. He went to meet Israel's soldiers when they arrived back in Samaria. He said to them, ‘The Lord, the God of your ancestors, was angry with Judah's people. So he let you have power over them to punish them. But you have killed them in a very cruel way. God in heaven has seen what you have done." 
2Chronicles28:10 Now you want to use the men and women from Judah and Jerusalem as your slaves. So you yourselves are guilty of sins against the Lord your God. 
2Chronicles28:11 Now listen to me! The Lord is very angry with you. So you must send back the prisoners that you have brought here from Judah. Remember that they are your relatives.’ 
2Chronicles28:12 Then some family leaders of Ephraim warned the soldiers who were returning from the battle against Judah. The leaders' names were: Jehohanan's son Azariah, Meshillemoth's son Berekiah, Shallum's son Jehizkiah and Hadlai's son Amasa." 
2Chronicles28:13 They said to the soldiers, ‘You must not bring your prisoners here! If you do, we will be guilty of even more sins against the Lord. The Lord is already angry with us people of Israel because we are guilty. Do not make it worse.’" 
2Chronicles28:14 So the soldiers let their prisoners go free. They gave the people and the things that they had brought from Judah to the leaders and the other people. 
2Chronicles28:15 The leaders found clothes for each of the prisoners who had no clothes. They gave the prisoners clothes, shoes, food and drink, as well as oil to put on their skin. They took all these things from the things that the soldiers had brought from Judah. They put the prisoners who were too weak to walk on donkeys. Then they took them back to their relatives in Jericho, the city with many palm trees. After that, the Israelite leaders returned to Samaria." 
2Chronicles28:16 At that time, King Ahaz asked the king of Assyria for help." 
2Chronicles28:17 Soldiers from Edom had attacked Judah again. They had taken people away as their prisoners. 
2Chronicles28:18 Philistine soldiers had also attacked towns in the low hills in the west of Judah and in the Negev in the south. They took these towns for themselves and they lived in them: Beth-Shemesh, Aijalon, Gederoth; Soco, Timnah and Gimzo with the villages around them." 
2Chronicles28:19 The Lord caused a lot of trouble for Judah's people because of their king, Ahaz. He turned away from the Lord and he allowed his people to do wicked things." 
2Chronicles28:20 King Tiglath-Pileser of Assyria came to Ahaz. But he did not help Ahaz. Instead, he caused trouble." 
2Chronicles28:21 Ahaz took valuable things from the Lord 's temple, from the king's palace and from his officers. He gave those things to the king of Assyria. But the king of Assyria still did not help him." 
2Chronicles28:22 During this time of trouble, King Ahaz did even more bad things against the Lord." 
2Chronicles28:23 He offered sacrifices to the gods of Damascus. He thought that those gods had helped the kings of Syria to win the wars against him. He thought, ‘If I offer sacrifices to them, perhaps they will help me too.’ But that sin caused a lot of trouble for King Ahaz and for his nation." 
2Chronicles28:24 Ahaz took away all the things that were in God's temple. He broke them into pieces. He shut the doors of the temple so that nobody could go in. He built altars for himself at the corner of every street in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles28:25 He built altars in every town in Judah to offer sacrifices to other gods. In that way he made the Lord, the God of his ancestors, very angry." 
2Chronicles28:26 All the other things that happened while Ahaz was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of the kings of Judah and Israel’. It tells about all the things that Ahaz did. 
2Chronicles28:27 Ahaz died and his people buried him in the City of David. But they did not bury him near the graves of Israel's kings. His son Hezekiah became king after him. 
2Chronicles29:1 Hezekiah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled Judah as king in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Abijah. She was the daughter of Zechariah. 
2Chronicles29:1 Hezekiah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled Judah as king in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Abijah. She was the daughter of Zechariah. 
2Chronicles29:2 Hezekiah did things that the Lord said were good, as his ancestor King David had done." 
2Chronicles29:3 In the first month of the year that Hezekiah became king, he opened the doors of the Lord 's temple. He repaired the doors." 
2Chronicles29:4 He brought together the priests and the Levites in the yard at the east side of the temple. 
2Chronicles29:5 He said to them, ‘Listen to me, you Levites. Make yourselves clean to serve the Lord. Then you can make the temple a holy place again. It is the temple of the Lord, the God of your ancestors. Take out of that holy place anything that is unclean." 
2Chronicles29:6 Our ancestors did not serve the Lord faithfully. They did things that the Lord our God saw were evil. They turned away from him. They stopped worshipping him in his temple, where he lives. They completely turned against him." 
2Chronicles29:7 They shut the doors at the entrance of the temple. They stopped burning oil in the lamps. They did not offer to Israel's God any incense or burnt offerings in his holy place. 
2Chronicles29:8 So the Lord became angry with Judah and Jerusalem. He made them disgusting places which other people insult. You can see this with your own eyes. 
2Chronicles29:9 You know that cruel enemies killed our fathers. They took away our sons, our daughters and our wives as their prisoners. That was God's punishment." 
2Chronicles29:10 Now I want to make a covenant with the Lord, Israel's God. Then he will stop being angry with us." 
2Chronicles29:11 My sons, the Lord has chosen you to serve him in his temple and to offer sacrifices. So do your work well.’" 
2Chronicles29:12 Then these Levites started to work in the temple: From Kohath's clan: Amasai's son Mahath and Azariah's son Joel. From Merari's clan: Abdi's son Kish and Jehallelel's son Azariah. From Gershon's clan: Zimmah's son Joah and Joah's son Eden. 
2Chronicles29:12 Then these Levites started to work in the temple: From Kohath's clan: Amasai's son Mahath and Azariah's son Joel. From Merari's clan: Abdi's son Kish and Jehallelel's son Azariah. From Gershon's clan: Zimmah's son Joah and Joah's son Eden. 
2Chronicles29:13 From Elizaphan's clan: Shimri and Jeiel. From Asaph's clan: Zechariah and Mattaniah. 
2Chronicles29:13 From Elizaphan's clan: Shimri and Jeiel. From Asaph's clan: Zechariah and Mattaniah. 
2Chronicles29:14 From Heman's clan: Jehiel and Shimei. From Jeduthun's clan: Shemaiah and Uzziel. 
2Chronicles29:15 Those men brought all the Levites together. They all made themselves clean to serve the Lord. Then they went into the temple to make it a holy place again, as the king had commanded them. They obeyed the Lord 's command." 
2Chronicles29:16 Then the priests went into the inside room of the Lord 's temple to make it holy. They found some things in the temple that were unclean. They carried all those things out to the temple yard. Then the Levites took the unclean things out of the city to the Kidron Valley. 
2Chronicles29:17 They began this work on the first day of the first month. On the 8th day of the month they reached the entrance room of the temple. They worked to make the temple a holy place for eight more days. On the 16th day of the first month they had finished the work. 
2Chronicles29:18 Then they went to King Hezekiah and they said, ‘We have made the whole temple clean and holy. That includes the altar for burnt offerings and all its tools. It also includes the table for the special bread and all its tools." 
2Chronicles29:19 When Ahaz was king, he removed many things from the temple when he turned away from the Lord. We have made all those things clean again. We have put them in front of the Lord 's altar so that the priests can use them again.’" 
2Chronicles29:20 King Hezekiah got up early the next morning. He brought the city's officers together. They all went up to the Lord 's temple. 
2Chronicles29:21 They took with them seven bulls, seven male sheep, seven lambs and seven male goats. They offered these animals as a sin offering for the kingdom, for the holy place and for the people of Judah. The king told the priests, Aaron's descendants, to offer sacrifices on the Lord 's altar." 
2Chronicles29:22 So they killed the bulls. The priests took the blood and they splashed it on the altar. Then they killed the male sheep. The priests splashed their blood on the altar too. Then they killed the lambs. The priests also splashed their blood on the altar. 
2Chronicles29:23 Finally, the priests brought the male goats in front of King Hezekiah and the people who were there. The king and the people put their hands on the goats." 
2Chronicles29:24 Then the priests killed the goats as a sin offering. They offered their blood on the altar as a sacrifice. Then all the people of Israel would no longer be guilty for their sins. This was because the king had said that the burnt offerings and the sin offerings would be for all Israel. 
2Chronicles29:25 The king told the Levites to stand in the Lord 's temple with their cymbals, harps and lyres to make music. They stood at the places where King David, David's prophet Gad and the prophet Nathan had told the Levites to stand. This was the Lord 's command that he had given to his prophets." 
2Chronicles29:26 The Levites held the musical instruments that King David had provided. The priests held their trumpets. 
2Chronicles29:27 Then Hezekiah told the priests to offer the burnt offering on the altar. When they began to offer the sacrifice, the singers started to sing to praise the Lord. The trumpets and the musical instruments of King David of Israel also started to make music." 
2Chronicles29:28 All the people there were worshipping the Lord. At the same time the singers were singing and the priests were making music with their trumpets. They all continued to do that until the priests finished making the burnt offering. 
2Chronicles29:29 When the priests finished offering the sacrifices, the king and everyone with him bent down low to worship God." 
2Chronicles29:30 King Hezekiah and his officers told the Levites to sing songs to praise the Lord. They told them to sing the songs that King David and the prophet Asaph had written. So the Levites praised God in that way. They were very happy and they bent down low to worship God. 
2Chronicles29:31 Then Hezekiah said, ‘Now you have made yourselves clean to serve the Lord. So come to the Lord 's temple and bring sacrifices and offerings to thank the Lord.’ So all the people brought their sacrifices and their offerings to thank the Lord. Everyone who wanted to offer burnt offerings brought animals for that too." 
2Chronicles29:32 For their burnt offerings, the people brought 70 bulls, 100 male sheep and 200 lambs to offer to the Lord." 
2Chronicles29:33 They also brought 600 bulls and 3,000 sheep to offer to the Lord." 
2Chronicles29:34 But there were not enough priests to prepare all the animals for the sacrifices. So their relatives, the Levites, helped them until they had finished the work. By that time more priests had made themselves clean to serve the Lord. (The Levites had been more careful than the priests to make themselves clean for the Lord.)" 
2Chronicles29:35 The people brought a lot of animals for burnt offerings. There was also the fat from the friendship offerings. And there were drink offerings too. The priests offered all those with the burnt offerings. That is how they started to worship the Lord again in his temple. 
2Chronicles29:36 Hezekiah and all the people were happy because God had helped them. They had been able to do the work on the temple very quickly. 
2Chronicles30:1 Hezekiah sent a message to all the people of Israel and Judah. He also wrote letters to the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh. He told them to come to the Lord 's temple in Jerusalem. They must come to worship the Lord, Israel's God, at the Passover festival." 
2Chronicles30:2 The king, his officers and all the people who lived in Jerusalem decided to have the Passover festival in the second month." 
2Chronicles30:3 Not enough priests had made themselves clean to serve the Lord. So they could not have the feast at the usual time. Also, all the people had not yet come to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles30:4 This idea seemed right to the king and to all the people. 
2Chronicles30:5 So they sent a message with the king's command to all the people. They sent the message everywhere in Israel, from Beersheba to Dan. The message told the people to come to Jerusalem for the Passover festival to worship the Lord, Israel's God. Before that, they had not brought all the people together for the festival, as God's Law taught them to do." 
2Chronicles30:6 Men took the letters from the king and his officers to all the people in Israel and Judah. The king's command said this: ‘A message to the people of Israel who have escaped from the power of the kings of Assyria. Turn back now to the Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel. Then he will turn back to you." 
2Chronicles30:7 Do not be like your parents and your relatives. They turned away from the Lord, the God of their ancestors. That made him so angry that he punished them, as you can see." 
2Chronicles30:8 Do not refuse to obey him, as your parents did. Instead, agree to serve him. Come to his temple. He has made it a holy place for ever. Serve the Lord your God so that he will stop being so angry with you." 
2Chronicles30:9 If you turn back to serve the Lord again, your enemies will be kind to your relatives and to your children. They will let them return here to their homes. The Lord your God is kind and he is ready to forgive you. So if you turn back to him, he will not send you away.’" 
2Chronicles30:10 The men took this message to every town among the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, and as far as the tribe of Zebulun. But in all those places, people insulted them and they laughed at them." 
2Chronicles30:11 But some people from Asher, Manasseh and Zebulun were not too proud to accept the king's message. They agreed to come to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles30:12 As for the people of Judah, God caused them to accept the command that the king and his officers had given. They all agreed together to do what the Lord wanted them to do." 
2Chronicles30:13 In the second month of the year, a very large crowd of people came together in Jerusalem. They came there for the Festival of Flat Bread." 
2Chronicles30:14 They removed the altars for false gods that were in Jerusalem. They also removed all the altars where people burned incense. They threw them into the Kidron Valley. 
2Chronicles30:15 On the 14th day of the second month, they killed the lamb for the Passover feast. The priests and the Levites who were not yet clean became ashamed. So they made themselves clean to serve the Lord. Then they could bring burnt offerings to the Lord 's temple." 
2Chronicles30:16 They stood in their proper places. God's servant Moses had written in God's law where they should stand. The Levites gave the blood from the sacrifices to the priests. The priests then splashed the blood on the altar. 
2Chronicles30:17 Many of the people had not made themselves properly clean. So they could not kill their lambs for the Passover and offer them to the Lord. The Levites had to kill the lambs for those people instead. 
2Chronicles30:18 Most of the people who came from the tribes of Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun had not made themselves properly clean. They should not have eaten the Passover meal, because God's law said that was wrong. But they still ate the meal. So Hezekiah prayed for them. He said, ‘ Lord you are good. Please forgive everyone" 
2Chronicles30:19 who really wants to obey you, the God of their ancestors. If they have not made themselves properly clean to eat this meal, please forgive them.’" 
2Chronicles30:20 The Lord accepted Hezekiah's prayer. He did not punish those people. 
2Chronicles30:21 The Israelites who were in Jerusalem enjoyed the Festival of Flat Bread for seven days. They were very happy. Every day, the Levites and the priests made loud music to praise the Lord." 
2Chronicles30:22 All the Levites understood how they should serve the Lord. So King Hezekiah thanked them. The festival continued for seven days. They offered friendship offerings to the Lord. They thanked the Lord, the God of their ancestors." 
2Chronicles30:23 Then all the people who were there agreed to continue the feast for another seven days. So they did that happily for seven more days. 
2Chronicles30:24 King Hezekiah of Judah gave 1,000 bulls and 7,000 sheep to the people. The leaders also gave them 1,000 bulls and 10,000 sheep. Many more priests also made themselves clean to serve the Lord." 
2Chronicles30:25 Everyone at the festival was very happy. They included all Judah's people, the priests, the Levites and the whole group of people who had come from Israel. There were also foreign people who were living in Israel and in Judah." 
2Chronicles30:26 Everyone enjoyed the festival in Jerusalem. Nothing like this had happened in Jerusalem since the time when David's son Solomon was king of Israel. 
2Chronicles30:27 The priests and the Levites stood up and they asked God to bless the people. Their prayers reached the Lord 's home in heaven, and he did what they asked for." 
2Chronicles31:1 The Passover festival finished. Then the Israelites who were there went to all the towns in Judah. They knocked down the stone pillars that people worshipped. They also cut down the Asherah poles. They destroyed all the altars and places for worship on the hills. They did that everywhere in Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim and Manasseh. After they finished, all the Israelites returned to their homes in their own towns." 
2Chronicles31:2 Hezekiah put the priests and the Levites into several groups. Each group had special work to do. Their different jobs were to offer burnt offerings and friendship offerings, and to serve God in other ways. Some of them would thank the Lord and sing songs to praise him at the gates of his temple." 
2Chronicles31:3 The king gave some of his own animals for burnt offerings. The priests offered these sacrifices in the way that the Law of the Lord taught. They offered burnt offerings each morning and each evening. They also offered them on Sabbath days, on the days of New Moon festivals and on other special days." 
2Chronicles31:4 King Hezekiah told the people who lived in Jerusalem to bring their offerings too. They must provide the proper gifts for the priests and the Levites. Then they would serve the Lord in the way that his law taught them to do. 
2Chronicles31:5 As soon as the Israelite people received Hezekiah's message, they brought their gifts to the temple. They brought the first part of their grain, wine, olive oil, honey and all the crops that grew in their fields. They brought one tenth part of all the food that they grew, so there was a lot of it." 
2Chronicles31:6 The Israelites and the people of Judah who lived in other towns also brought gifts. They brought one animal from every ten of all their cows, sheep and goats. They also brought one thing from every ten things that they had made holy for the Lord their God. They put these things together in many heaps." 
2Chronicles31:7 They started to bring their things in the third month of the year and they finished in the seventh month. 
2Chronicles31:8 Hezekiah and his officers went to the temple and they saw all the things. Then they praised the Lord and they asked him to bless his people, the Israelites." 
2Chronicles31:9 Hezekiah asked the priests and the Levites about the heaps of gifts from the people. 
2Chronicles31:10 The leader of the priests, Azariah from Zadok's clan, said, ‘The people have brought a lot of gifts to the Lord 's temple. Since they started to do that, we have had enough food to eat. There has been a lot more food than we need. The Lord has blessed his people, so we still have all this extra food.’" 
2Chronicles31:11 Hezekiah told them that they must prepare some rooms in the temple to store the things. When they had done that," 
2Chronicles31:12 they put in there the gifts, the tithes and the holy things. A Levite called Konaniah had to take care of all these things. His brother Shimei helped him." 
2Chronicles31:13 Konaniah and Shimei had authority over these people: Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismakiah, Mahath and Benaiah. King Hezekiah chose all these men to do this work. Azariah was the priest who had authority over the temple." 
2Chronicles31:14 Imnah's son Kore, a Levite, was the guard who watched the East Gate of the temple. He received the gifts that people offered to the Lord. He had authority to share among the priests and the Levites the gifts that people brought and the holy things." 
2Chronicles31:15 Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah and Shecaniah helped him. They lived in the towns where the priests lived. They faithfully shared the people's gifts among the other Levites and priests, group by group. They included everyone, young and old." 
2Chronicles31:16 They gave gifts to all those who were in the lists of men who could serve God in the temple. They had to be three years old or older. Those men would go into the temple on the right days for their group. They would do the work that their group had to do on those days. 
2Chronicles31:17 The lists of the priests showed the clans that they belonged to. The list of the Levites showed which group they belonged to. Those who were 20 years old or older had to do the work that was given to their group. 
2Chronicles31:18 The young children, wives, sons and daughters of all the men in the lists also received gifts. That was because the men faithfully kept themselves clean to serve God in their work." 
2Chronicles31:19 Some of the priests and Levites lived on the land around the cities that belonged to them. So the king's officers chose honest men to take the gifts to them. They gave them their proper share of the gifts. The priests had to be Aaron's descendants, and the Levites' names had to be on the list of Levite families." 
2Chronicles31:20 Those are the things that King Hezekiah did everywhere in Judah. He did what was good and right to please the Lord his God. 
2Chronicles31:21 He served God faithfully with all his strength. He helped the work in the temple and he obeyed God's law and his commands. So he was successful in the things that he did. 
2Chronicles32:1 After King Hezekiah had done all these good things, King Sennacherib of Assyria attacked Judah. He put his soldiers in camps around all the strong cities in Judah. He wanted to take the cities for himself." 
2Chronicles32:2 Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come to attack Judah. He realized that Sennacherib had decided to attack Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles32:3 So Hezekiah talked with his advisors and his army officers about what they should do. They decided to stop all the water that came from springs around the city. They all agreed that this was a good idea. 
2Chronicles32:4 A big group of people came to help. They stopped the water that came from the springs and from the stream that went through that region. They said, ‘When the kings of Assyria arrive here, we do not want them to find plenty of water.’" 
2Chronicles32:5 King Hezekiah's men worked hard to repair the city's walls where they had broken. Hezekiah built towers on the walls. He also built another wall outside the first wall. He made the Millo around the City of David stronger, too. He also made many weapons and shields." 
2Chronicles32:6 Hezekiah chose some men as captains to lead the men of his army. He told them to meet together in the open place near the city's gate. He said to them," 
2Chronicles32:7 ‘Be strong and brave. Do not be afraid of the king of Assyria and his large army. Do not worry! We have much greater power than he has. 
2Chronicles32:8 He has only the strength of human soldiers to help him. But we have the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles!’ After King Hezekiah of Judah said that to his men, they felt brave and strong." 
2Chronicles32:9 King Sennacherib of Assyria and his army were ready to attack Lachish. While he was there, he sent some men to Jerusalem with a message. The message was for King Hezekiah and all Judah's people who were in Jerusalem with him. The message said this:" 
2Chronicles32:10 ‘King Sennacherib of Assyria says this to you: My soldiers have made their camp around Jerusalem. So why do you remain in the city? Why are you so sure that someone will rescue you? 
2Chronicles32:11 Hezekiah tells you, “The Lord our God will save us from the power of Assyria's king.” But he is deceiving you. You will die because you will have no food or water." 
2Chronicles32:12 Remember that it was Hezekiah who removed the altars and the special places where you worship the Lord your God. He told the people of Judah and Jerusalem, “You must worship God only at the altar here in Jerusalem. That is the only place that you may offer sacrifices. ”" 
2Chronicles32:13 You surely know what my ancestors and I have done to all the other nations. The gods of the nations around you could not save their people from my power. 
2Chronicles32:14 Look at all the nations that my ancestors completely destroyed. None of their gods could rescue any of them. So do not think that your God can save you from my power. 
2Chronicles32:15 Do not let Hezekiah deceive you with his lies. Do not believe him. No god of any nation or kingdom has been able to save his people from me or from my ancestors. So your God certainly cannot save you from my power! ’ 
2Chronicles32:16 King Sennacherib's men continued to insult the Lord God and his servant Hezekiah. 
2Chronicles32:17 Sennacherib also wrote letters to insult the Lord, Israel's God, and to laugh at him. He wrote, ‘The gods of the other nations around you could not save their people from my power. So Hezekiah's God cannot rescue his people from me either.’" 
2Chronicles32:18 Then Sennacherib's men shouted loudly to the people who were standing on Jerusalem's walls. They spoke in the language of Judah's people. They wanted to make the people very afraid so that they could take the city for themselves. 
2Chronicles32:19 They insulted the God of Jerusalem's people, as they insulted the gods of other nations. They spoke about him as if he was only a god that people had made for themselves." 
2Chronicles32:20 King Hezekiah and Amoz's son, Isaiah the prophet, prayed to God in heaven. They asked him to help." 
2Chronicles32:20 King Hezekiah and Amoz's son, Isaiah the prophet, prayed to God in heaven. They asked him to help." 
2Chronicles32:21 The Lord God sent an angel to destroy Assyria's army. The angel killed all the soldiers and the army officers in their camp. So the king of Assyria had to return home to his own country. He was very ashamed. He went into the temple of his god. There some of his own sons used their swords to kill him. 
2Chronicles32:22 That is how the Lord saved Hezekiah and Jerusalem's people from King Sennacherib of Assyria. The Lord also saved them from all their other enemies. So all Judah had a time of peace. 
2Chronicles32:23 Many people brought gifts to Jerusalem to offer to the Lord. They also brought valuable gifts for King Hezekiah. From that time, all the other nations respected Hezekiah as a great king." 
2Chronicles32:24 Soon after that, Hezekiah became very ill. He nearly died. He prayed to the Lord and the Lord answered him. The Lord did a miracle to show that Hezekiah would get well again." 
2Chronicles32:25 But Hezekiah did not thank the Lord for the kind thing that he had done for him. The king was too proud to do that. So the Lord became angry with him, and with the people of Judah and Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles32:26 But then Hezekiah and the people who lived in Jerusalem made themselves humble. They stopped being proud, so the Lord did not punish them. He was not angry with them while Hezekiah continued to be king." 
2Chronicles32:27 Hezekiah was very rich. People gave him great honour. He built rooms to store all his valuable things. They included silver, gold, jewels, spices and shields." 
2Chronicles32:28 He built rooms to store grain, wine and olive oil. He also made buildings to keep all his cows, sheep and goats." 
2Chronicles32:29 He built special cities for himself. He put lots of sheep and cows in them, because God had given him very many things." 
2Chronicles32:30 Hezekiah had stopped the water coming out from the higher spring at Gihon. Instead, he caused the water to go down to the west side of the City of David. Hezekiah was successful in all the things that he did." 
2Chronicles32:31 After that, the rulers of Babylon sent some officers to visit Hezekiah. They wanted to ask him about the miracle that had happened in Judah. God let Hezekiah decide what to tell them. He wanted to test Hezekiah, to see if he would be faithful." 
2Chronicles32:32 The other things that happened while Hezekiah was king are written in a book. They include his faithful love for the Lord. The prophet Isaiah, Amoz's son, wrote down these things in the book of his visions. It is part of ‘The history of the kings of Judah and Israel’." 
2Chronicles32:32 The other things that happened while Hezekiah was king are written in a book. They include his faithful love for the Lord. The prophet Isaiah, Amoz's son, wrote down these things in the book of his visions. It is part of ‘The history of the kings of Judah and Israel’." 
2Chronicles32:33 Hezekiah died and his people buried him beside the graves of King David's descendants, near the top of the hill. At his death, all the people of Judah and those who lived in Jerusalem gave him great honour. Hezekiah's son Manasseh became king after him." 
2Chronicles33:1 Manasseh was 12 years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for 55 years. 
2Chronicles33:2 Manasseh did things that the Lord said were evil. He did the same terrible sins that the other nations in Canaan had done. Those were the nations that the Lord had chased out so that the Israelites could live there. 
2Chronicles33:3 Manasseh built again the altars on the hills that his father Hezekiah had knocked down. He built altars for people to worship idols of Baal. He also made Asherah poles. He bent down low to worship all the stars in the sky. 
2Chronicles33:4 He built altars in the Lord 's temple. The Lord had said about his temple, ‘That is my home in Jerusalem where people will worship me for ever.’" 
2Chronicles33:5 Manasseh built altars to give honour to the stars in both yards of the Lord 's temple. 
2Chronicles33:6 He burnt his own sons with fire as a sacrifice in Ben Hinnom Valley. He used magic and false gods to find out what would happen in the future. He took advice from magicians and people who talked to the spirits of dead people. He did many things that the Lord said were very evil. This made the Lord very angry. 
2Chronicles33:7 Manasseh made an image of a false god. He put this idol in God's temple. God had said this about his temple to King David and to his son King Solomon: ‘My people will worship me in my temple here in Jerusalem. That is the place that I have chosen to be my home for ever. I have chosen it from among all the tribes of Israel. 
2Chronicles33:8 I will never cause the Israelite people to leave this land that I gave to their ancestors. But they must be careful to obey all my commands, my laws and the rules that I gave to my servant Moses for them.’" 
2Chronicles33:9 But Manasseh caused Judah's people and the people of Jerusalem to turn away from God. So they did more evil things than the people who lived in Canaan before them. The Lord had destroyed those nations so that the Israelites could live there. 
2Chronicles33:10 The Lord warned Manasseh and his people. But they would not listen to him. 
2Chronicles33:11 So the Lord brought the officers of the king of Assyria's army to attack them. They took hold of Manasseh. They put metal hooks in his nose and they tied bronze chains around him. Then they took him away to Babylon. 
2Chronicles33:12 This gave Manasseh a lot of pain. He asked the Lord his God to be kind to him. He made himself humble and he prayed for help to the Lord, the God of his ancestors." 
2Chronicles33:13 When Manasseh prayed to the Lord, the Lord answered him. He was kind to Manasseh, as Manasseh had asked him to be. So the Lord brought Manasseh back to Jerusalem again, to rule there as king. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord is the true God." 
2Chronicles33:14 After that, Manasseh repaired the outside wall of the City of David. He built it higher, from the west side of Gihon stream, as far as the Fish Gate. Then he continued around Ophel hill. He built the wall up higher than it had been. He also put army officers with their soldiers in all the strong cities of Judah." 
2Chronicles33:15 Manasseh removed from the Lord 's temple the foreign gods and the idol that he had put there. He also removed the altars that he had built on the hill of the temple and in other places in Jerusalem. He threw them away, outside the city." 
2Chronicles33:16 Then he repaired the Lord 's altar in the temple. He brought friendship offerings and thank offerings as sacrifices on the altar. He told Judah's people to worship the Lord, Israel's God." 
2Chronicles33:17 The people still offered sacrifices at the other altars in the country. But they only offered those sacrifices to the Lord their God. 
2Chronicles33:18 The other things that happened while Manasseh was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of Israel's kings’. It includes Manasseh's prayer to God. It also includes the messages that the Lord, Israel's God, told his prophets to speak to Manasseh." 
2Chronicles33:19 The book of the prophets' messages also includes Manasseh's prayer and how God answered him. It tells about all Manasseh's sins and how he turned away from God. It includes a list of all the places where he built altars and where he put Asherah poles and idols. He did those things before he made himself humble and he turned back to God. 
2Chronicles33:20 Manasseh died and his people buried him in his palace. His son Amon became king after him. 
2Chronicles33:21 Amon was 22 years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for two years. 
2Chronicles33:22 Amon did things that the Lord said were evil, as his father Manasseh had done. He offered sacrifices to all the idols that his father Manasseh had made. He worshipped those idols." 
2Chronicles33:23 But he did not make himself humble and turn back to the Lord, as his father Manasseh had done. Instead, Amon became guilty of even more sins." 
2Chronicles33:24 Amon's own officers decided to kill him. They killed him in his palace. 
2Chronicles33:25 Then the people of Judah punished all Amon's murderers with death. They chose his son Josiah to be king after him. 
2Chronicles34:1 Josiah was eight years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for 31 years. 
2Chronicles34:2 Josiah did things that the Lord said were right. He lived in the good ways of his ancestor, King David. He did not turn away from the Lord 's teaching in any way." 
2Chronicles34:3 When Josiah had been king for eight years, he was still a young man. At that time he began to worship God, as his ancestor David had done. When he had been king for 12 years, he started to remove the places in Jerusalem and in all Judah where people worshipped false gods. He removed the altars on the hills, the Asherah poles, the idols and the images of false gods." 
2Chronicles34:4 He told his men to knock down the altars where people worshipped the idols of Baal. He broke into pieces the altars for incense that were near the other altars. He destroyed the Asherah poles, the idols and the images. He broke them all into very small pieces. He threw the bits over the graves of the people who had offered sacrifices to those false gods." 
2Chronicles34:5 Josiah took the bones of the priests who had made sacrifices to the false gods. He burned the priests' bones on their own altars. That is how Josiah made Judah and Jerusalem clean again. 
2Chronicles34:6 He went to the towns that belonged to the tribes of Manasseh, Ephraim and Simeon. He even went as far as Naphtali. He did the same thing in all those towns, as well as in the villages around them where nobody lived." 
2Chronicles34:7 He knocked down the altars and the Asherah poles. He completely destroyed the idols and the altars for incense everywhere in the kingdom of Israel. Then he returned to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles34:8 When Josiah had been king for 18 years, he continued to make Judah and the temple clean places again. He sent three men to repair the temple of the Lord his God. They were Azaliah's son Shaphan, the city's officer Maaseiah, and Joah, son of Joahaz, the city's secretary." 
2Chronicles34:9 They went to meet Hilkiah, the leader of the priests. They gave him the money that people had brought as gifts to God's temple. The people had given their money to the Levites who stood as guards at the doors of the temple. The people who brought these gifts had come from the tribes of Manasseh, Ephraim and the other people who still lived in Israel. All the people from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, and those who lived in Jerusalem had also brought their gifts." 
2Chronicles34:10 Then they gave this money to the men who had authority over the work on the Lord 's temple. Those leaders then paid the workers who did the repairs to make the temple strong again. 
2Chronicles34:11 They gave money to the carpenters and the builders to buy stones that were ready to use and wood. The kings of Judah had not taken care of the buildings. So the workers now needed stones and wood to repair the walls and the roofs. 
2Chronicles34:12 The workers were honest men who worked well. Four Levites had authority over the workers. They were Jahath and Obadiah from Merari's clan, and Zechariah and Meshullam from Kohath's clan. Other Levites who were musicians" 
2Chronicles34:12 The workers were honest men who worked well. Four Levites had authority over the workers. They were Jahath and Obadiah from Merari's clan, and Zechariah and Meshullam from Kohath's clan. Other Levites who were musicians" 
2Chronicles34:12 The workers were honest men who worked well. Four Levites had authority over the workers. They were Jahath and Obadiah from Merari's clan, and Zechariah and Meshullam from Kohath's clan. Other Levites who were musicians" 
2Chronicles34:13 had authority over the men who carried the wood and the stones. They told the workers what to do as they did their different jobs. Some Levites worked as secretaries, officers or guards." 
2Chronicles34:14 The Levites were bringing the money out of the Lord 's temple that people had brought there. While they were doing that, Hilkiah the priest found the book of God's Law. Those were the laws that the Lord had given to Moses for his people." 
2Chronicles34:15 Hilkiah told Shaphan, the king's secretary, ‘I have found the book of the Law in the Lord 's temple.’ He gave the book to Shaphan." 
2Chronicles34:16 Then Shaphan took the book to the king and he said, ‘Your servants are doing everything that you told them to do." 
2Chronicles34:17 They have paid out the money that was in the Lord 's temple. They have given it to the leaders who have authority over the men who are doing the work.’ 
2Chronicles34:18 Then Shaphan, the king's secretary, told the king, ‘Hilkiah the priest has given a book to me.’ Then Shaphan read it aloud to the king." 
2Chronicles34:19 When the king heard the words in the book of God's laws, he was so upset that he tore his clothes." 
2Chronicles34:20 King Josiah gave a command to Hilkiah, Shaphan's son Ahikam, Micah's son Abdon, Shaphan the secretary and Asaiah the king's servant." 
2Chronicles34:20 King Josiah gave a command to Hilkiah, Shaphan's son Ahikam, Micah's son Abdon, Shaphan the secretary and Asaiah the king's servant." 
2Chronicles34:21 He told them, ‘Go to the temple. Ask the Lord about the message in this book that Hilkiah has found. I need to know what I should do, as well as the people who still live in Judah and in Israel. The Lord has become very angry with us because our ancestors have not obeyed his message. They have not done the things that this book tells us that we should do.’" 
2Chronicles34:22 So Hilkiah and the other men that the king had sent went to speak to Huldah. Huldah was a prophetess who lived in the north part of Jerusalem. She was the wife of Shallum, the son of Tokhath. Tokhath was the son of Hasrah, who took care of the king's clothes. The king's men told Huldah why they had come to meet her." 
2Chronicles34:23 She said to them, ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says, “Tell this to the man who sent you here to me:" 
2Chronicles34:24 This is what the Lord says: I will bring great trouble to this place and the people who live here. The message of the book that they have read to the king of Judah tells about what will happen. 
2Chronicles34:25 I will send this trouble because they have turned away from me. They have offered sacrifices to other gods. I am very angry with them because of all the idols that they have made for themselves. My anger is like a fire that is burning and nobody can stop it!” 
2Chronicles34:26 The king of Judah sent you here to ask for the Lord 's answer. Say to the king, “The Lord, Israel's God, says this about the message that you have heard:" 
2Chronicles34:27 When you heard the message that I had spoken, you were very upset. You made yourself humble to respect me. You tore your clothes and you wept. You did that when you heard how I would punish this place and the people who live here. Because you became so upset, I have heard your prayer." 
2Chronicles34:28 So I will let you die in peace and people will bury you beside your ancestors. You yourself will never see the great trouble that I will bring to this place and the people who live here.” That is what the Lord says.’ The men took Huldah's answer back to the king. 
2Chronicles34:29 Then King Josiah told all the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem to come and meet with him. 
2Chronicles34:30 He went up to the Lord 's temple. All the people who lived in Jerusalem and in the rest of Judah went with him. They included the priests, the Levites, young people and old people. Everyone went to the temple. They all listened while the king read to them all the words in the book of God's covenant. That was the book that Hilkiah had found in the Lord 's temple." 
2Chronicles34:31 Then the king stood in his place beside the pillar in the temple. He promised the Lord that he would obey the covenant. He agreed to serve the Lord faithfully and to obey his commands, laws and rules. Josiah agreed to obey what was written in the book of God's covenant." 
2Chronicles34:32 The king told all the people who were in Jerusalem and the people of Benjamin's tribe to stand. He told them to promise to obey God's laws. So the people who lived in Jerusalem agreed to obey the covenant of God, the God of their ancestors." 
2Chronicles34:33 Josiah removed all the disgusting idols from all the land of the Israelites. He told all the people of Israel to worship the Lord their God. All the time that Josiah ruled as king, the people continued to worship the Lord, the God of their ancestors." 
2Chronicles35:1 King Josiah told the people to have the Passover festival in Jerusalem, to give honour to the Lord. They killed the lambs for the Passover meal on the 14th day of the first month of the year." 
2Chronicles35:2 Josiah told the priests the jobs that they should do. He told them to be strong as they served the Lord in his temple. 
2Chronicles35:3 The work of the Levites was to teach all the Israelites about God's laws. The Lord had chosen them to do that special work. Josiah said to them, ‘Put the holy Covenant Box in the temple that David's son, King Solomon, built. Do not carry it on your shoulders. Now you must serve the Lord your God and his people, the Israelites." 
2Chronicles35:4 Each group of families must be ready to do their work. King David of Israel and his son Solomon decided what work each group must do. 
2Chronicles35:5 Each group of Levites must stand in the holy place of the temple. Each group will be ready to help the people of different clans. 
2Chronicles35:6 Kill the lambs for the Passover meal. Make yourselves clean to serve the Lord. Prepare the sacrifices for each Israelite family. Then they can eat the Passover meal, as the Lord told Moses they must do.’" 
2Chronicles35:7 Josiah took 30,000 lambs and goats, and 3,000 bulls from his own animals. He gave them to the people who were there, to kill for their Passover sacrifices." 
2Chronicles35:8 His officers were also happy to give their animals to the people, as well as to the priests and the Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel were officers who took care of the temple. They gave 2,600 lambs and 300 bulls to the priests for Passover sacrifices." 
2Chronicles35:8 His officers were also happy to give their animals to the people, as well as to the priests and the Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel were officers who took care of the temple. They gave 2,600 lambs and 300 bulls to the priests for Passover sacrifices." 
2Chronicles35:9 These Levite officers gave 5,000 lambs and 500 bulls to the Levites for Passover sacrifices: Konaniah and his brothers, Shemaiah and Nethanel; Hashabiah, Jeiel and Jozabad." 
2Chronicles35:10 Everything was ready for the Passover to begin. The priests and the Levites stood in their places, group by group, as the king had commanded." 
2Chronicles35:11 Some Levites killed the lambs for the Passover meal. They gave the blood to the priests, and the priests splashed the blood on the altar. At the same time, some Levites were removing the skins from the animals." 
2Chronicles35:12 They took the animals for the burnt offerings to give to the people. They shared them among each group of families. Then each family could offer a bull to the Lord as a sacrifice, in the way that the book of Moses taught." 
2Chronicles35:13 The Levites cooked the lambs for the Passover meal over a fire, as the rules taught. They boiled the meat of the holy offerings in pots and pans. Then they quickly carried the meat to all the people." 
2Chronicles35:14 After that, the Levites prepared the Passover meal for themselves and for the priests. The priests had been busy all day, until the evening. They were offering the burnt offerings and the pieces of fat to the Lord. So the Levites prepared the meal for themselves and for the priests, Aaron's descendants." 
2Chronicles35:15 Asaph's descendants, the musicians, stood in their places. Those were the places that David, Asaph, Heman and the king's prophet, Jeduthun, had chosen. The guards continued to watch the different gates all through the day. So the other Levites prepared the meal for them too." 
2Chronicles35:16 So they did everything properly to serve the Lord that day. Everyone did what King Josiah had told them to do. They had the Passover meal and they offered the burnt offerings on the Lord 's altar. 
2Chronicles35:17 Some Israelite people were also there in Jerusalem for the Passover festival at that time. They also stayed seven more days for the festival of Flat Bread. 
2Chronicles35:18 There had not been a Passover festival like that in Israel since the time of the prophet Samuel. No king of Israel had enjoyed a Passover festival as good as the one that King Josiah had. The priests, the Levites and all the people enjoyed the festival. They were the people of Judah, the people of Israel who had come to Jerusalem, as well as the people who lived in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles35:19 This Passover festival happened in the 18th year that Josiah ruled Judah as king. 
2Chronicles35:20 After Josiah had done all those things for the temple, King Necho of Egypt marched out with his army. He came to fight a battle at Carchemish, a city beside the Euphrates River. King Josiah went with his army to fight against King Necho." 
2Chronicles35:21 But Necho sent men with a message to Josiah. King Necho said, ‘King of Judah, you should not come to fight against me. We should be friends. I came to fight against this kingdom which is my enemy. God has told me that I must hurry. So do not try to stop me, because God is with me. If you try to fight against God, he will destroy you.’" 
2Chronicles35:22 But Josiah would not agree to go away. He changed his clothes so that nobody would recognize him in the battle. God had told King Necho what to say to Josiah. But Josiah would not listen to his words. Instead, he went to fight against Necho in Megiddo Valley." 
2Chronicles35:23 Necho's soldiers hit King Josiah with their arrows. The king said to his servants, ‘Take me away from the battle! The arrows have hurt me very much.’" 
2Chronicles35:24 So they took him out of the chariot that he was riding in. They put him in his other chariot. Then they took him to Jerusalem and he died there. His people buried him beside his ancestors. All the people of Judah and Jerusalem wept because Josiah had died. 
2Chronicles35:25 Jeremiah wrote sad songs about Josiah's death. The male and female singers still sing these songs to remember Josiah, even today. The songs have become something that the people of Israel always like to sing. They are written in a book called ‘The book of sad songs’." 
2Chronicles35:25 Jeremiah wrote sad songs about Josiah's death. The male and female singers still sing these songs to remember Josiah, even today. The songs have become something that the people of Israel always like to sing. They are written in a book called ‘The book of sad songs’." 
2Chronicles35:26 All the other things that Josiah did while he was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of the kings of Israel and Judah’. It tells how Josiah faithfully obeyed what is written in the Law of the Lord. It includes all the good things that he did, from the beginning to the end of his time as king." 
2Chronicles35:27  
2Chronicles36:1 The people of Judah chose Josiah's son, Jehoahaz, to become king in Jerusalem after his father." 
2Chronicles36:2 Jehoahaz was 23 years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for three months. 
2Chronicles36:3 The king of Egypt stopped Jehoahaz from ruling in Jerusalem. He made Judah pay tax to him. It was 3,400 kilograms of silver and 34 kilograms of gold." 
2Chronicles36:4 The king of Egypt chose Eliakim, Jehoahaz's brother, to rule as king over Judah and Jerusalem. He changed Eliakim's name to Jehoiakim. But Necho took Jehoiakim's brother Jehoahaz away to Egypt." 
2Chronicles36:5 Jehoiakim was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled for 11 years as king in Jerusalem. He did things that the Lord his God said were evil. 
2Chronicles36:6 While he was king, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon attacked Judah. He took hold of King Jehoiakim. He tied bronze chains around him and he took him away to Babylon." 
2Chronicles36:7 King Nebuchadnezzar took some valuable things from the Lord 's temple. He took them to Babylon and he put them in his palace there. 
2Chronicles36:8 The other things that happened while Jehoiakim was king are written in a book. The book is called ‘The history of the kings of Israel and Judah’. It tells about the disgusting sins that he was guilty of. Jehoiakim's son Jehoiachin became king after him. 
2Chronicles36:9 Jehoiachin was 18 years old when he became king. He ruled as king in Jerusalem for three months and ten days. He did things that the Lord said were evil. 
2Chronicles36:10 In the spring, King Nebuchadnezzar sent his soldiers to bring Jehoiachin to Babylon. They also took to Babylon some valuable things from the Lord 's temple. Nebuchadnezzar chose Jehoiachin's relative, Zedekiah, to be king of Judah and Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles36:11 Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. 
2Chronicles36:12 He did things that the Lord said were evil. The prophet Jeremiah spoke the Lord 's message to Zedekiah. But Zedekiah was too proud to listen to him. 
2Chronicles36:12 He did things that the Lord said were evil. The prophet Jeremiah spoke the Lord 's message to Zedekiah. But Zedekiah was too proud to listen to him. 
2Chronicles36:13 King Nebuchadnezzar had made Zedekiah promise in God's name that he would be faithful to Nebuchadnezzar. But Zedekiah turned against Nebuchadnezzar. He was very proud and he refused to change. He refused to turn back to the Lord, Israel's God." 
2Chronicles36:14 All the leaders of the priests and the people also turned away from the Lord more and more. They did the same disgusting sins that the people in other nations did. They made the Lord 's temple an unclean place. That was the place that the Lord himself had chosen as his special home in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles36:15 The Lord sent his servants many times to warn his people. He wanted to be kind to them. He wanted to keep his temple safe. 
2Chronicles36:16 But they laughed at the men that God sent to them. They did not think that his messages were important. They insulted his prophets. Finally, the Lord became very angry with his people. Nothing could stop him from punishing them." 
2Chronicles36:17 Then the Lord sent the king of Babylon to attack them. His soldiers killed Jerusalem's young men in the temple, where they thought that they would be safe. They were not kind to anybody, the young men or women, or even the very old people. God put all the people of Jerusalem under the king of Babylon's power." 
2Chronicles36:18 The king took away to Babylon all the things that were in God's temple. He took everything, big things and small things. He took all the valuable things that were in the Lord 's temple. He also took the valuable things of the king and his officers. He took them all away to Babylon." 
2Chronicles36:19 Nebuchadnezzar's men destroyed the Lord 's temple with fire. They knocked down the walls around Jerusalem. They burned all the important buildings. They destroyed all the valuable things in the city. 
2Chronicles36:20 Nebuchadnezzar took away to Babylon all the people in Jerusalem who were still alive. They worked as slaves for him and for his sons until the kingdom of Persia became powerful. 
2Chronicles36:21 In this way, the Lord 's message that his prophet Jeremiah had spoken became true. The land of Judah was empty for 70 years. It was finally able to rest, like the rest on a Sabbath day." 
2Chronicles36:21 In this way, the Lord 's message that his prophet Jeremiah had spoken became true. The land of Judah was empty for 70 years. It was finally able to rest, like the rest on a Sabbath day." 
2Chronicles36:22 In the first year that Cyrus, king of Persia, was ruling Babylon, the Lord put a thought in his mind. King Cyrus decided to send a message to everybody who lived in his kingdom. His message would cause what God had already spoken to his prophet Jeremiah to become true. The message was written down and people took it all over Cyrus's kingdom. It said:" 
2Chronicles36:22 In the first year that Cyrus, king of Persia, was ruling Babylon, the Lord put a thought in his mind. King Cyrus decided to send a message to everybody who lived in his kingdom. His message would cause what God had already spoken to his prophet Jeremiah to become true. The message was written down and people took it all over Cyrus's kingdom. It said:" 
2Chronicles36:23 ‘This is what Cyrus, the king of Persia, says: The Lord, the God of heaven, has given me power over all the kingdoms of the earth. He has said that I must build a temple for him in Jerusalem, the city that is in Judah. Any of God's people who live among you may now return to Jerusalem. I pray that the Lord their God will be with them.’" 
Ezra1:1 In the first year that Cyrus, king of Persia, was ruling Babylon, the Lord put a thought in his mind. King Cyrus decided to send a message to everybody who lived in his kingdom. His message would cause what God had already spoken to his prophet Jeremiah to become true. The king's message was written down. People took it everywhere in Cyrus's kingdom. It said:" 
Ezra1:1 In the first year that Cyrus, king of Persia, was ruling Babylon, the Lord put a thought in his mind. King Cyrus decided to send a message to everybody who lived in his kingdom. His message would cause what God had already spoken to his prophet Jeremiah to become true. The king's message was written down. People took it everywhere in Cyrus's kingdom. It said:" 
Ezra1:2 ‘This is what Cyrus, the king of Persia, says: The Lord, the God of heaven, has given me power over all the kingdoms of the earth. He has said that I must build a temple for him in Jerusalem, the city that is in Judah." 
Ezra1:3 Any of God's people who live among you may now return to Jerusalem. I pray that their God will be with them. They must build a temple there for the Lord, Israel's God. He is the God whose home is in Jerusalem." 
Ezra1:4 In places where there are some Israelites who want to return, their neighbours must help them with gifts. They should give them silver, gold and other things for their journey. They should also give them animals. They may also give them special gifts for God's temple that is in Jerusalem.’" 
Ezra1:5 Then the leaders of the families of Judah and Benjamin prepared to return to Jerusalem. The priests and the Levites also prepared to go. God had put a thought in the minds of all those people that they should go. So they prepared everything that they needed to go and build the Lord 's temple in Jerusalem. 
Ezra1:6 Their neighbours gave them silver things, gold things and other valuable gifts, as well as animals. They also gave them offerings for the temple." 
Ezra1:7 Then King Cyrus brought the valuable things that King Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the Lord 's temple in Jerusalem. Nebuchadnezzar had taken them from Jerusalem and brought them to Babylon. He had put them in the temple of his own gods. 
Ezra1:8 Cyrus told his officer, Mithredath, to count all the valuable things. Mithredath was the officer who took care of all Persia's riches. As he counted the things, he gave them to Sheshbazzar, the leader of Judah's people." 
Ezra1:9 They counted the things and they made this list: 30 gold dishes. 1,000 silver dishes. 29 special tools." 
Ezra1:10 30 gold bowls. 410 silver bowls. 1,000 other things." 
Ezra1:11 There were 5,400 things made from gold and silver. Sheshbazzar took them all with him when he left Babylon to return to Jerusalem with the other exiles." 
Ezra2:1 These are the people who returned to Jerusalem and the other towns in Judah. Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had brought them as prisoners to Babylon. Each person returned to his own town." 
Ezra2:2 Their leaders were Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum and Baanah. This is the number of Israelite men from each clan:" 
Ezra2:2 Their leaders were Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum and Baanah. This is the number of Israelite men from each clan:" 
Ezra2:3 2,172 descendants of Parosh." 
Ezra2:4 372 descendants of Shephatiah. 
Ezra2:5 775 descendants of Arah. 
Ezra2:6 2,812 descendants of Pahath-Moab (from the families of Jeshua and Joab)." 
Ezra2:7 1,254 descendants of Elam." 
Ezra2:8 945 descendants of Zattu. 
Ezra2:9 760 descendants of Zaccai. 
Ezra2:10 642 descendants of Bani. 
Ezra2:11 623 descendants of Bebai. 
Ezra2:12 1,222 descendants of Azgad." 
Ezra2:13 666 descendants of Adonikam. 
Ezra2:14 2,056 descendants of Bigvai." 
Ezra2:15 454 descendants of Adin. 
Ezra2:16 98 descendants of Ater (from Hezekiah's family). 
Ezra2:17 323 descendants of Bezai. 
Ezra2:18 112 descendants of Jorah. 
Ezra2:19 223 descendants of Hashum. 
Ezra2:20 95 descendants of Gibbar. 
Ezra2:21 123 men from Bethlehem. 
Ezra2:22 56 men from Netophah. 
Ezra2:23 128 men from Anathoth. 
Ezra2:24 42 men from Azmaveth. 
Ezra2:25 743 men from Kiriath-Jearim, Kephirah and Beeroth." 
Ezra2:26 621 men from Ramah and Geba. 
Ezra2:27 122 men from Michmash. 
Ezra2:28 223 men from Bethel and Ai. 
Ezra2:29 52 men from Nebo. 
Ezra2:30 156 men from Magbish. 
Ezra2:31 1,254 men from the other town called Elam." 
Ezra2:32 320 men from Harim. 
Ezra2:33 725 men from Lod, Hadid and Ono." 
Ezra2:34 345 men from Jericho. 
Ezra2:35 3,630 men from Senaah." 
Ezra2:36 These were the priests: 973 descendants of Jedaiah (from Jeshua's family). 
Ezra2:37 1,052 descendants of Immer." 
Ezra2:38 1,247 descendants of Pashhur." 
Ezra2:39 1,017 descendants of Harim." 
Ezra2:40 These were the Levites: 74 descendants of Jeshua and Kadmiel (from Hodaviah's family). 
Ezra2:41 The singers: 128 descendants of Asaph. 
Ezra2:42 The guards for the temple gates: 139 descendants of Shallum, Ater, Talmon, Akkub, Hatita and Shobai." 
Ezra2:43 The temple servants: the descendants of Ziha, Hasupha, Tabbaoth," 
Ezra2:44 Keros, Siaha, Padon," 
Ezra2:45 Lebanah, Hagabah, Akkub," 
Ezra2:46 Hagab, Shalmai, Hanan," 
Ezra2:47 Giddel, Gahar, Reaiah," 
Ezra2:48 Rezin, Nekoda, Gazzam," 
Ezra2:49 Uzza, Paseah, Besai," 
Ezra2:50 Asnah, Meunim, Nephussim," 
Ezra2:51 Bakbuk, Hakupha, Harhur," 
Ezra2:52 Bazluth, Mehida, Harsha," 
Ezra2:53 Barkos, Sisera, Temah," 
Ezra2:54 Neziah and Hatipha. 
Ezra2:55 The descendants of King Solomon's servants: the descendants of Sotai, Hassophereth, Peruda," 
Ezra2:56 Jaala, Darkon, Giddel," 
Ezra2:57 Shephatiah, Hattil, Pokereth-Hazzebaim and Ami." 
Ezra2:58 There were 392 men who were temple servants and the descendants of Solomon's servants. 
Ezra2:59 Some people came from the towns of Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Kerub, Addon and Immer. But these people could not show that they belonged to Israelite families. They may not have been descendants of Israel." 
Ezra2:60 These people included 652 descendants of Delaiah, Tobiah and Nekoda." 
Ezra2:61 These priests also could not show what families they belonged to: The descendants of Hobaiah, Hakkoz and Barzillai. (This Barzillai had married one of the daughters of a man from Gilead called Barzillai. So he took Barzillai's name for himself.)" 
Ezra2:62 These people tried to find their names in the lists of priests' families. But they could not find anything. So they could not serve as priests. 
Ezra2:63 The officer in Judah said that they could not eat the priests' special food. They must wait until there was a leader of the priests who could use the Urim and Thummim to decide the right thing to do. 
Ezra2:64 All together, 42,360 people returned to Jerusalem." 
Ezra2:65 There were also 7,337 male and female servants, as well as 200 male and female singers." 
Ezra2:66 They had 736 horses, 245 mules," 
Ezra2:67 435 camels and 6,720 donkeys." 
Ezra2:68 They arrived at the Lord 's temple in Jerusalem. Some of the leaders of their families gave gifts to build the temple again where it had been before. 
Ezra2:69 They each gave as much money as they were able to give. Together they gave about 500 kilograms of gold and nearly 3,000 kilograms of silver. They also gave 100 special sets of clothes for the priests." 
Ezra2:70 The priests, the Levites, the singers, temple guards and other workers lived in their towns near Jerusalem. The other Israelites went to live in the towns where their ancestors had lived." 
Ezra3:1 When all the people were now living in their towns, they went to meet together in Jerusalem. It was the seventh month of the year." 
Ezra3:2 Jozadak's son, Jeshua, and some of the other priests in his family began to build the altar of Israel's God. Shealtiel's son, Zerubbabel, and some of his family also began to build it. They wanted to make burnt offerings on it. God's servant, Moses, had written about this in the Law." 
Ezra3:3 The people who already lived near there made them afraid. But they built the altar on its foundation. Then they made burnt offerings to the Lord on the altar. They offered sacrifices on it every day, in the morning and in the evening." 
Ezra3:4 Then they had the Festival of Huts, as the Law said they should do. On each day of the feast they made the right number of burnt offerings." 
Ezra3:5 After that, they made burnt offerings every day, and also at the time of each new moon. They made the right sacrifices for the special festivals, when people met together to worship the Lord. They also offered special gifts that people had chosen to give to the Lord." 
Ezra3:6 They began to offer those burnt offerings on the first day of the seventh month. That was before they had started to build the temple. 
Ezra3:7 The leaders gave money to men who could work with stone and wood. They sent food, drink and olive oil to the people in Tyre and Sidon. This was to pay for beams of wood from cedar trees. They would bring the wood from Lebanon on ships that came to Joppa. Cyrus, king of Persia, had commanded them to do this." 
Ezra3:8 The Israelites began to build the Lord 's temple two years after they arrived in Jerusalem. In the second month of the year, Shealtiel's son, Zerubbabel, and Jozadak's son, Jeshua, began the work. All the priests and the Levites who worked with them in Jerusalem joined them. All the people who had returned to Jerusalem from Babylon helped in the work. The leaders chose Levites who were 20 years old, or older, to have authority over the work." 
Ezra3:9 These are their names: Jeshua, his sons and his brothers. Kadmiel and his sons. (They were descendants of Hodaviah.) Henadad's sons, with their sons and brothers, who were Levites." 
Ezra3:10 The men who were building the Lord 's temple finished the foundations. Then the priests put on their special clothes. They made a noise with their trumpets. The Levites (sons of Asaph) made a noise with their cymbals. They all stood to praise the Lord, in the way that Israel's King David had told them many years before." 
Ezra3:11 They sang together to praise the Lord. Group by group, they sang these words: ‘He is good. His love for Israel will continue for ever.’ Then all the people shouted loudly to praise the Lord. They praised him because they had finished work on the temple's foundation." 
Ezra3:12 But many of the older priests, Levites and leaders wept aloud. They were sad because they had seen the temple as it had been before. They remembered how beautiful it had been. At the same time, many other people shouted because they were happy." 
Ezra3:13 The happy shouts and the noise of people who were weeping were both very loud. People far away could hear the noise. The different sounds mixed together, so nobody could say which was which." 
Ezra4:1 The Israelites who had returned to Jerusalem from exile were building the temple for the Lord, Israel's God. The enemies of the people of Judah and Benjamin heard that the Israelites had begun to build." 
Ezra4:2 They went to speak to Zerubbabel and to the leaders of the Israelite families. They said, ‘Let us help you to build the temple. We also want to worship your God. We have lived in this country since Esarhaddon, king of Assyria, brought us here. All this time we have made sacrifices to your God.’" 
Ezra4:3 But Zerubbabel, Jeshua and the other leaders of Israel's people said, ‘No. You cannot help us to build the temple for our God. We must build it by ourselves for the Lord, Israel's God. That is what Cyrus, king of Persia, has commanded us to do.’" 
Ezra4:4 Then the people who lived near them tried to make Judah's people afraid. They tried to stop them building. 
Ezra4:5 They paid bribes to government officers to work against the Israelite builders. Then they could not do the work. They continued to do this all the time that King Cyrus ruled Persia, until Darius became king." 
Ezra4:6 When Xerxes became king of Persia, Judah's enemies wrote a letter to him. They said that the people who lived in Jerusalem and the rest of Judah were doing a bad thing." 
Ezra4:7 Later, when Artaxerxes was king of Persia, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel and their friends wrote a letter to him. They wrote it in the Aramaic language. People translated it for the king to understand." 
Ezra4:8 Rehum, the city's ruler, and Shimshai, his officer, wrote this letter against Jerusalem to King Artaxerxes. This is what it said:" 
Ezra4:9 Rehum, your ruler, and Shimshai, his officer, write this letter to you. The other officers who work with us also send this letter to you. They are the judges and other officers and leaders, together with the people who came here from Erech, Babylon and Susa (the Elamites)." 
Ezra4:10 It also comes from people of other nations who came to live in Samaria's cities. The great King Ashurbanipal sent those people to live in Samaria and in the region that is on the west side of the Euphrates River. 
Ezra4:11 This is the letter that they sent to Artaxerxes: ‘To King Artaxerxes, from your servants in the land west of the Euphrates River." 
Ezra4:12 We want to tell the king what the Jews here are doing. They came here to Jerusalem from Babylon. Jerusalem has always been a bad city whose people do not obey their rulers. Now they are building the city again. They are building the city's walls and the foundations for other buildings. 
Ezra4:13 So you should know that there will be trouble. If they build this city again, with its walls, they will not pay any more taxes to you. You will not receive any more money from them as their king." 
Ezra4:14 We serve you as our king. We do not want you to lose honour. So we have sent this letter to you. 
Ezra4:15 You should look for the books where your ancestors recorded news about Jerusalem. Then you will read many bad things about this city. You will see that its people have always turned against their rulers. Since long ago, they have not obeyed the kings or the region's officers. It is because they are so wicked that Babylon's army destroyed the city." 
Ezra4:16 So we are telling the king that you should not let these people build up this city again, with its walls. If they do that, you will no longer have any authority in this region that is west of the Euphrates River.’" 
Ezra4:17 The king of Persia sent this reply: ‘To Rehum, my ruler, Shimshai, his officer, and all their friends in Samaria and in other parts of the region west of the Euphrates River. I thank you for your news." 
Ezra4:18 People have translated the letter that you sent to me. They read it for me to listen to. 
Ezra4:19 Then I commanded them to look in the old books. I have seen what the books say about Jerusalem. It is true that its people have always turned against the kings that ruled them. Since long ago, they have never obeyed their rulers." 
Ezra4:20 In the past, powerful kings have ruled over Jerusalem and all the region west of the Euphrates River. They received many kinds of taxes from the people there." 
Ezra4:21 Now you must command these people to stop their work. They must not build the city again until I decide to let them do it. 
Ezra4:22 You must be very careful to make sure that they stop. We do not want the danger to our kingdom to become any greater. Our authority to rule them as kings must continue.’ 
Ezra4:23 Rehum, his officer, Shimshai, and their friends heard what the king's letter said. So they immediately took it to the Jews in Jerusalem. They used their power to command the Jews to stop their work." 
Ezra4:24 So the people did no more work on God's temple in Jerusalem. The work stopped until the second year that King Darius ruled Persia. 
Ezra5:1 Then the prophets Haggai and Iddo's grandson, Zechariah, spoke messages from God. They served Israel's God, and they spoke with his authority. They told God's message to the Jews who lived in Jerusalem and in other parts of Judea." 
Ezra5:1 Then the prophets Haggai and Iddo's grandson, Zechariah, spoke messages from God. They served Israel's God, and they spoke with his authority. They told God's message to the Jews who lived in Jerusalem and in other parts of Judea." 
Ezra5:1 Then the prophets Haggai and Iddo's grandson, Zechariah, spoke messages from God. They served Israel's God, and they spoke with his authority. They told God's message to the Jews who lived in Jerusalem and in other parts of Judea." 
Ezra5:2 Then Shealtiel's son, Zerubbabel, and Jozadak's son, Jeshua, started again to build God's temple in Jerusalem. God's prophets were there to help them." 
Ezra5:3 At that time, Tattenai was the ruler who had authority over the region on the west side of the Euphrates River. He went with Shethar-Bozenai and their friends to ask the Jews what they were doing. They asked them, ‘Who gave you the authority to build this temple and make it ready to use again?’" 
Ezra5:4 They also asked, ‘What are the names of the men who are building this place?’" 
Ezra5:5 But God was watching over the Jewish leaders. Nobody was able to stop them building at that time. The city's officers had to wait until they could send a letter to King Darius. They waited for him to reply. 
Ezra5:6 Tattenai, the city's ruler, Shethar-Bozenai and their friends who had authority in the region west of the Euphrates River wrote to King Darius." 
Ezra5:7 This is what they said: ‘King Darius, we hope that you are well." 
Ezra5:8 We went to Judah to visit the temple of the great God. The king should know that the Jews are building it with big stones. They are putting wooden beams in its walls. They are working hard and very carefully. The building is growing fast. 
Ezra5:9 We spoke to their leaders and we asked them, “Who gave you authority to build this temple and make it ready to use again?”" 
Ezra5:10 We also asked them to tell us their names. Then we could tell you who the leaders are. 
Ezra5:11 This is the answer that they gave to us: “We are servants of the God who rules heaven and earth. A great king of Israel built this temple and finished it many years ago. Now we are building it again. 
Ezra5:12 Our ancestors made the God of heaven angry. So he let King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon have power over them. He destroyed this temple. Then he took our people as prisoners to Babylon. 
Ezra5:13 But later, King Cyrus of Babylon commanded that we must build God's temple again. He said this in the first year that he was king." 
Ezra5:14 He gave back to us the gold and silver things that belong in our God's temple. King Nebuchadnezzar had taken those things away from the temple in Jerusalem. He took them to Babylon and he put them in his own temple. But King Cyrus gave our valuable things to Sheshbazzar. He had given authority to this man to rule over Judah. 
Ezra5:15 He said to Sheshbazzar, ‘Take these things and put them safely in the temple in Jerusalem. Let the people build the house of God again, in the place where it used to be.’" 
Ezra5:16 So this man, Sheshbazzar, came here. He built the foundations of God's temple in Jerusalem. Since then we have continued to build it, but we have not finished it yet.”" 
Ezra5:17 If the king should choose, you should look in the books in Babylon's royal library. You should see whether King Cyrus did give a command about God's temple in Jerusalem. See if he said that the Jews should build it again. When you know what is true, you should decide what is right. Please tell us what we should do.’" 
Ezra6:1 King Darius told his officers to look in the books in the royal library. That was in Babylon, in the place where they stored important things." 
Ezra6:2 But it was in the region of Media that they found a scroll about the temple in Jerusalem. It was stored in a strong building in Ecbatana. This is what the scroll said: ‘This is an important note. 
Ezra6:3 King Cyrus gave a command about God's temple in Jerusalem, in the first year that he ruled in Babylon. He said: “The Jews must build their temple as a place where they can offer sacrifices to their God. They must build it on its foundations. They must make it 30 metres wide and 30 metres high." 
Ezra6:4 They must build the walls with three rows of big stones, and then a row of wooden beams. They should take money from the king's palace to pay for the work." 
Ezra6:5 We will give back to them the silver and gold things that belong in their God's temple. King Nebuchadnezzar took them from the temple in Jerusalem and he brought them here to Babylon. Now they must return to the place where they belong, in God's house in Jerusalem.”" 
Ezra6:6 So listen to me, Tattenai, my ruler of the region on the west side of the Euphrates River. You, Shethar-Bozenai and your other officers in that region must all stay away from the temple!" 
Ezra6:7 You must not do anything to stop the work on God's temple. The Jewish ruler and their leaders must continue to build this house of God. They must build it in its proper place. 
Ezra6:8 So I will now tell you what you must do for the Jewish leaders. You must help them to build this temple again. Use the king's money to pay for everything that they need to continue the work. Use the taxes that we receive from people in the region west of the Euphrates River. The work on the building must not stop. 
Ezra6:9 Also give to the priests the things that they need each day for their sacrifices to the God of heaven. Give them young bulls, male sheep and lambs to use as burnt offerings. Give them grain, salt, wine and olive oil. Whenever the priests in Jerusalem ask for something, you must be sure to give it to them." 
Ezra6:10 Then their offerings will make the God of heaven happy. They will pray for God to bless the king and his family. 
Ezra6:11 Nobody may change what I have commanded in this letter. If anyone does not obey this command, men must remove a beam from the roof of his house. They must push the point of the beam through his body and lift him up on it. Then they must destroy his house so that it becomes a heap of stones. That is what he deserves." 
Ezra6:12 No king or nation should try to change my command. They must never destroy God's temple in Jerusalem. That is the place that he has chosen for people to worship him. I pray that he will remove anyone who tries to attack that place. I, Darius, have made this command. Everyone must obey it completely.’" 
Ezra6:13 Tattenai, ruler of the region west of the Euphrates River, Shethar-Bozenai and their friends carefully obeyed King Darius's command." 
Ezra6:14 So the leaders of the Jews continued to build the temple. The work went very well. They listened to the messages from God that the prophet Haggai and Iddo's grandson, Zechariah, were teaching them. They finished building the temple. Israel's God had commanded them to do that. Cyrus, Darius and Artaxerxes, the kings of Persia, had also commanded them to do it." 
Ezra6:14 So the leaders of the Jews continued to build the temple. The work went very well. They listened to the messages from God that the prophet Haggai and Iddo's grandson, Zechariah, were teaching them. They finished building the temple. Israel's God had commanded them to do that. Cyrus, Darius and Artaxerxes, the kings of Persia, had also commanded them to do it." 
Ezra6:14 So the leaders of the Jews continued to build the temple. The work went very well. They listened to the messages from God that the prophet Haggai and Iddo's grandson, Zechariah, were teaching them. They finished building the temple. Israel's God had commanded them to do that. Cyrus, Darius and Artaxerxes, the kings of Persia, had also commanded them to do it." 
Ezra6:15 They finished building the temple on the third day of Adar month. King Darius had then been king for six years. 
Ezra6:16 Then the Israelite people offered the temple to God, so that he would bless it. The priests, the Levites and the other people who had returned from Babylon were all very happy." 
Ezra6:17 They offered 100 bulls, 200 male sheep and 400 lambs. Then they sacrificed 12 male goats as a sin offering for all Israel. There was one goat for each of the 12 tribes of Israel." 
Ezra6:18 They decided how each group of priests and Levites should work in God's temple in Jerusalem. Moses had written in his book how they should do this. 
Ezra6:19 On the 14th day of the first month, the people ate the Passover feast." 
Ezra6:20 The priests and Levites had all made themselves clean for their special work. The Levites killed the lambs for the Passover sacrifice. They did that on behalf of all the people, the priests and themselves." 
Ezra6:21 So all the people who had returned from Babylon ate the feast. Other Israelites in Jerusalem had turned away from the bad things that other nations who lived there did. They had decided to worship the Lord, Israel's God. So they also ate the feast." 
Ezra6:22 Then they ate the Feast of Flat Bread for seven days. The Lord had caused them to be very happy, because the king of Assyria had helped them. The Lord had made the king think in a different way about the Jews in Jerusalem. He had decided to help them to build the God of Israel's temple." 
Ezra7:1 After these things, Ezra came to Jerusalem from Babylon. This happened while Artaxerxes was king of Persia. This is the list of Ezra's ancestors: He was the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah." 
Ezra7:2 Hilkiah was the son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub." 
Ezra7:3 Ahitub was the son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth." 
Ezra7:4 Meraioth was the son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki." 
Ezra7:5 Bukki was the son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar. Eleazar was a son of Aaron, the leader of the priests." 
Ezra7:6 This man Ezra arrived from Babylon. He was a teacher who knew the Law of Moses very well. The Lord, Israel's God, had given that Law to Moses. Ezra served the Lord as his God. The Lord was kind and he helped Ezra, so that the king of Persia gave him everything that he asked for." 
Ezra7:7 In the seventh year that Artaxerxes was king, Ezra came together with other Israelites. They included priests, Levites, and singers, servants and guards for the temple." 
Ezra7:8 Ezra arrived in Jerusalem in the fifth month of Artaxerxes' seventh year as king. 
Ezra7:9 He left Babylon on the first day of the first month and he arrived in Jerusalem on the first day of the fifth month. God had helped him with his journey. 
Ezra7:10 God was kind to Ezra because Ezra had decided to study the Law of the Lord. Ezra always obeyed its rules. He also taught the Law and its rules to the Israelite people. 
Ezra7:11 This is a copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes had given to Ezra, the priest and teacher. Ezra had studied the Lord 's commands and laws for Israel." 
Ezra7:12 ‘From Artaxerxes, king of all kings. To Ezra the priest, who has studied very well the Law of the God of heaven. I hope that you are well." 
Ezra7:13 I have given this command: When you travel to Jerusalem, any other Israelites who live in my kingdom may go with you. Anyone who wants to go may go. That includes priests and Levites." 
Ezra7:14 The king and his seven officers are sending you with their authority. You have the Law of your God that he has given to you. Go and see if your people in Judah and Jerusalem are obeying his Law. 
Ezra7:15 Take with you the gold and silver that I and my officers have sent. They are a free gift for Israel's God, whose house is in Jerusalem." 
Ezra7:16 Also take the gold and silver that other people in Babylonia give to you. And take the gifts that the people and the priests have given for their God's temple in Jerusalem. 
Ezra7:17 You must use the money to buy bulls, male sheep and lambs. You must also buy grain and wine to offer to your God. Offer them as sacrifices on the altar of your God's temple in Jerusalem." 
Ezra7:18 You and your friends may then use the rest of the silver and gold in the way that you choose. Decide what your God wants you to do. 
Ezra7:19 Also take the valuable things that you use to worship your God in his temple. Take them safely to him in Jerusalem. 
Ezra7:20 You may need other things to worship your God in his temple. You may take what you need from the royal store rooms. 
Ezra7:21 I, King Artaxerxes, give this command to all my officers in the region on the west side of the Euphrates River: You must give Ezra anything that he asks for. He is a priest who studies the Law of the God of heaven." 
Ezra7:22 This is how much you may give to him: 3,400 kilograms of silver, 10,000 kilograms of wheat, 2,200 litres of wine, 2,200 litres of oil, and all the salt that he wants." 
Ezra7:23 Be careful to give Ezra everything that the God of heaven wants for his temple. I do not want the God of heaven to be angry with the kingdom that I and my sons rule. 
Ezra7:24 You must not take any kinds of taxes from the men who serve this God in his house. You have no authority to do this. Take no taxes from the priests, the Levites, or the singers, guards, and servants who work in the temple." 
Ezra7:25 Ezra, your God has helped you to be wise. So you must choose judges and officers who know the laws of your God. Then they will decide things for all the people who live in the region on the west side of the Euphrates River. If the people do not know the laws of your God, you must teach them." 
Ezra7:26 Everyone must obey the laws of your God and also the laws of the king. If they do not obey, they deserve the right punishment. They may have to die. They may have to leave the country. They may have to lose their valuable things. They may have to go to prison.’" 
Ezra7:27 I praise the Lord, the God that our ancestors worshipped. He has caused the king to give honour to him. He made the king decide to make the Lord 's temple in Jerusalem very great." 
Ezra7:28 The Lord has been kind to me, so that the king, his helpers and his powerful officers have helped me. Because the Lord my God has been with me, he has helped me to be strong. I have been able to bring many of the leaders of Israel to Jerusalem with me." 
Ezra8:1 We came from Babylon during the time that Artaxerxes was king. These are the leaders of clans who came with me, and the names of their families:" 
Ezra8:2 Gershom, from Phinehas's clan. Daniel, from Ithamar's clan." 
Ezra8:2 Gershom, from Phinehas's clan. Daniel, from Ithamar's clan." 
Ezra8:3 Shecaniah's son, Hattush, from David's clan. Zechariah and 150 other men, from Parosh's clan." 
Ezra8:3 Shecaniah's son, Hattush, from David's clan. Zechariah and 150 other men, from Parosh's clan." 
Ezra8:4 Zerahiah's son, Eliehoenai, and 200 other men, from Pahath-Moab's clan." 
Ezra8:5 Jahaziel's son, Shecaniah, and 300 other men, from Zattu's clan." 
Ezra8:6 Jonathan's son, Ebed, and 50 other men, from Adin's clan." 
Ezra8:7 Athaliah's son, Jeshaiah, and 70 other men, from Elam's clan." 
Ezra8:8 Michael's son, Zebadiah, and 80 other men, from Shephatiah's clan." 
Ezra8:9 Jehiel's son, Obadiah, and 218 other men, from Joab's clan." 
Ezra8:9 Jehiel's son, Obadiah, and 218 other men, from Joab's clan." 
Ezra8:10 Josiphiah's son, Shelomith, and 160 other men, from Bani's clan." 
Ezra8:11 Bebai's son, Zechariah, and 28 other men, from Bebai's clan." 
Ezra8:11 Bebai's son, Zechariah, and 28 other men, from Bebai's clan." 
Ezra8:12 Hakkatan's son, Johanan, and 110 other men, from Azgad's clan." 
Ezra8:13 Eliphelet, Jeuel, Shemaiah, and 60 other men, from Adonikam's clan. They came later." 
Ezra8:14 Uthai, Zaccur, and 70 other men, from Bigvai's clan." 
Ezra8:15 I told all the people to come together at the river that runs towards Ahava. We stayed there for three days. I saw that there were Jewish people and priests, but I did not see any Levites." 
Ezra8:16 So I asked them to send some of their leaders: Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah and Meshullam. I also asked for Joiarib and Elnathan, who were wise teachers." 
Ezra8:16 So I asked them to send some of their leaders: Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah and Meshullam. I also asked for Joiarib and Elnathan, who were wise teachers." 
Ezra8:17 I sent them all to Iddo, the leader in Casiphia. Iddo and his family were servants in the temple who were living in Casiphia. I told them what to say to Iddo. I wanted them to bring people who would serve God in his house." 
Ezra8:18 God was kind to us and he helped us. So they brought Sherebiah to us. He was a worker who had special skills to make things. He was a descendant of Israel's son Levi. He belonged to the clan of Levi's son, Mahli. Sherebiah came with his sons and brothers. Together they were 18 men." 
Ezra8:19 Hashabiah and Jeshaiah also came. They belonged to the clan of Levi's son, Merari. 20 men from their family came with them." 
Ezra8:20 220 temple servants also came. King David had first chosen this group to help the Levites with their work. We made a list of all their names. 
Ezra8:21 We were all waiting by the Ahava River. I told the people not to eat any food, so that we could pray to God for help. We asked him to keep us safe on the journey, with our children and all our things." 
Ezra8:22 I was ashamed to ask the king to send his soldiers with us to keep us safe. He could have sent soldiers who rode on horses with us, or other soldiers. But we had said to the king, ‘Our God helps people who trust him and he keeps them safe. But he is very angry with people who turn away from him and he punishes them.’" 
Ezra8:23 So we ate no food and we prayed to our God about this. He answered our prayers. 
Ezra8:24 I chose 12 of the most important priests to do an important job, as well as Sherebiah, Hashabiah and ten of their brothers." 
Ezra8:25 I told them to take care of the valuable things that we had received for the temple of our God. These were silver and gold things and other special things that the king, his helpers and his officers had given to us. Israelite people who were living in Babylonia had also given us valuable things for the temple. I weighed all these things." 
Ezra8:26 I weighed 20,000 kilograms of silver and 3,500 kilograms of things made from silver. I weighed 3,500 kilograms of gold" 
Ezra8:27 and 20 gold bowls that weighed 8.5 kilograms. I also gave to them two beautiful bowls made from bronze. They shone brightly and they were as valuable as gold. 
Ezra8:28 I said to the men, ‘Like these special things, you people are also special. You all belong to the Lord. People have chosen to give the silver and gold to the Lord, the God that your ancestors served." 
Ezra8:29 So you must be careful to keep them safe until you reach Jerusalem. When you get there, you must weigh them again. Do that in front of the leaders of the priests, the Levites and the leaders of Israelite families. Then they should store them in the rooms of the temple.’" 
Ezra8:30 Then they gave the silver, the gold and the other valuable things to the priests and the Levites. They would take them to the temple of our God in Jerusalem." 
Ezra8:31 We began our journey from the Ahava River on the 12th day of the first month. We left there to go to Jerusalem. Our God kept us safe on the journey. No enemies attacked us and nobody robbed us on the way. 
Ezra8:32 So we arrived safely in Jerusalem. We rested there for three days. 
Ezra8:33 On the fourth day, we went to the house of our God. Then we weighed the silver, the gold and the other valuable things there. We gave them to Meremoth, the son of Uriah the priest. Phinehas's son, Eleazar was with him. Jeshua's son, Jozabad, and Binnui's son, Noadiah, were also there. They were Levites." 
Ezra8:34 They weighed and counted everything carefully. They wrote everything in a list as they weighed it. 
Ezra8:35 All the people who had returned from Babylon made burnt offerings as sacrifices to Israel's God. They offered to the Lord 12 bulls on behalf of all Israel. They also offered 96 male sheep and 77 lambs. They killed 12 male goats as a sin offering. They gave all these to the Lord as burnt offerings. 
Ezra8:36 They also gave the king's letter with its commands to his officers and rulers in the region west of the Euphrates River. The king's officers helped the Israelite people and the work of God's temple. 
Ezra9:1 When we had done all these things, the Jewish leaders came to speak to me. They said, ‘Some of the Israelites have done disgusting things, like the people of other nations do. Some priests and Levites have done the same bad things. They live in the same way as the other people who live in this land, the Canaanites, Hittites, Perizzites, Jebusites, Ammonites, Moabites, Egyptians and Amorites. They have not kept themselves separate." 
Ezra9:2 They have married some of the foreign people's daughters. They have let their sons do the same thing. In this way, God's holy people have become mixed with the foreign people who live near to them. Our own leaders and officers have led the way in these bad things.’" 
Ezra9:3 When I heard this, I was very upset. I tore my shirt and my coat. I pulled out hair from my head and my beard. I was angry and ashamed. I sat down." 
Ezra9:4 Then everyone who respected the words of Israel's God came around me. They were afraid of what God might do, because the Israelites who came from Babylon had not obeyed him. I continued to sit there, until the time of the evening sacrifice. I was still very upset." 
Ezra9:5 When the time came for the evening sacrifice, I stood up. I still wore my shirt and coat that I had torn because I was so sad. Then I went down on my knees. I held out my hands and I prayed to the Lord, my God." 
Ezra9:6 I said, ‘My God, I am too ashamed to look up at you. Our sins are very great. They are so many that they reach far above us. We are completely guilty." 
Ezra9:7 Since our ancestors were alive, we have continued to do wrong things. Because of our sins, you have given our enemies power over us, our kings and our priests. Foreign kings and their armies have killed some of our people. They have made some of us prisoners. They have robbed us and they have caused us to be ashamed. And we are still ashamed today." 
Ezra9:8 But now, for a short time, the Lord our God has been kind to us. He has let some of us remain alive. He has given us a safe place to live in this holy place. He has made our lives happier. He has given us rest from work as slaves." 
Ezra9:9 We are still slaves, but our God has not left us alone to serve other people. Because he loves us, he has caused the kings of Persia to be kind to us. He has let us live so that we can build again the temple of our God. It had become a heap of stones, but now we have built it again. He has given us a safe place to live in Jerusalem and the other towns of Judah." 
Ezra9:10 Our God, we can say nothing good about ourselves. We have turned away from your commands." 
Ezra9:11 Your servants the prophets told us your laws. You said, “You will go and live in a land that is unclean. The people who live there have done wicked things. The whole land has been made unclean by all the evil things that they have done." 
Ezra9:12 So you must not let your daughters marry their sons. And do not let your sons marry their daughters. Do not ever help them to live in peace and become strong. If you make yourselves separate from them, you will be strong yourselves. The land will give you good food to eat. After you die, the land will belong to your children, and to your descendants for ever.”" 
Ezra9:13 All these bad things have happened to us because we are guilty of many wicked things. But, our God, you still have not punished us as much as we deserve. You have let some of us remain alive." 
Ezra9:14 But now we still refuse to obey your commands! Some of us have married foreign people who do disgusting things. If we continue to do that, you may destroy us all. None of us will remain alive!" 
Ezra9:15 Lord God of Israel, you are righteous. Only a few of us escaped from exile and remain as your people today. Now we stand before you as guilty people. Because of our sins, we do not deserve to come near to you.’" 
Ezra10:1 Ezra continued to pray, in front of God's temple. He was asking God to forgive his people's sins. He was weeping, and he was bending down low to the ground. While he was doing that, a big crowd of Israelite people came around him. There were men, women and children. They were also weeping loudly." 
Ezra10:2 Then Shecaniah spoke to Ezra. Shecaniah was Jehiel's son, a descendant of Elam. Shecaniah said, ‘We have not been faithful to our God. We have married foreign women from the nations who live near us. But Israel may still hope that God will forgive us." 
Ezra10:3 We will make an agreement with our God. We will agree to send away these foreign women and their children. As our leader, you have told us we must do this. The people who respect our God's commands say the same thing. Now we want to do what God's Law says is right." 
Ezra10:4 Get up now! You must do something about this. We will help you, so you must be brave!’" 
Ezra10:5 So Ezra got up. He told the leaders of the priests, the Levites and all Israel's people to make a strong promise. They all promised God that they would do what they had said." 
Ezra10:6 Then Ezra went away from the front of God's temple. He went to the room of Eliashib's son, Jehohanan. While Ezra stayed there, he did not eat any food or drink any water. He was still very sad because the people had not been faithful to God." 
Ezra10:7 They wrote a message and they sent it to all the people in Jerusalem and the other towns in Judah. It said that all the Jews who had returned from exile in Babylon must come to Jerusalem. 
Ezra10:8 If they did not arrive in three days, they would lose everything that belonged to them. They would no longer be part of the Israelite people. That is what the leaders and officers had decided should happen." 
Ezra10:9 All the men from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin reached Jerusalem in three days. It was the 20th day of the ninth month. All the people sat in the yard in front of God's temple. Their bodies were shaking because they were afraid. It was also raining. 
Ezra10:10 Then Ezra the priest stood up. He said to the people, ‘You have not been faithful to your God. You have married foreign wives. You have caused the whole nation of Israel to be guilty." 
Ezra10:11 Now you must agree to obey the Lord, the God that your ancestors worshipped. Turn away from your sins and do the things that please him. Make yourselves separate from the foreign people who live near you. Send away your foreign wives.’" 
Ezra10:12 All the people spoke with a loud voice. They said, ‘You are right. We will do as you say." 
Ezra10:13 But we are many people and we cannot continue to stand here in the heavy rain. We will need more than one or two days to do what we must do. There are many of us who have done this bad sin. 
Ezra10:14 So please let our officers decide what to do on behalf of us all. People who have married foreign wives should come here on certain days. People from each town should come on the right day, together with the leaders and judges from that town. In this way, we can make things right. Then our God will not be angry with us any longer.’" 
Ezra10:15 Only four men did not agree with this. They were Asahel's son, Jonathan, Tikvah's son, Jahzeiah, as well as Meshullam and Shabbethai, the Levite." 
Ezra10:16 So the Jews who had returned from Babylon did what they had agreed to do. Ezra the priest chose family leaders for each clan. He wrote down their names. The leaders met together to decide what to do. They started on the first day of the tenth month. 
Ezra10:17 They finished on the first day of the first month of the new year. 
Ezra10:18 These are the priests who had married foreign wives. From the clan of Jozadak's son, Jeshua, and his brothers: Maaseiah, Eliezer, Jarib, Gedaliah." 
Ezra10:19 These men promised to send away their wives. Each of them gave a male sheep as a sacrifice because they were guilty. 
Ezra10:20 From the clan of Immer: Hanani, Zebadiah." 
Ezra10:21 From the clan of Harim: Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel, Uzziah." 
Ezra10:22 From the clan of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, Elasah." 
Ezra10:23 From the Levites: Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (also called Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, Eliezer." 
Ezra10:24 From the singers: Eliashib. From the men who were guards at the temple gate: Shallum, Telem, Uri." 
Ezra10:25 These are the other Israelites who had married foreign wives. From the clan of Parosh: Ramiah, Izziah, Malkijah, Mijamin, Eleazar, Malkijah, Benaiah." 
Ezra10:26 From the clan of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, Elijah." 
Ezra10:26 From the clan of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, Elijah." 
Ezra10:27 From the clan of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, Aziza." 
Ezra10:28 From the clan of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, Athlai." 
Ezra10:29 From the clan of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal, Jeremoth." 
Ezra10:30 From the clan of Pahath-Moab: Adna, Kelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui, Manasseh." 
Ezra10:31 From the clan of Harim: Eliezer, Ishijah, Malkijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon," 
Ezra10:32 Benjamin, Malluch, Shemariah." 
Ezra10:33 From the clan of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, Shimei." 
Ezra10:34 From the clan of Bani: Maadai, Amram, Uel," 
Ezra10:35 Benaiah, Bedeiah, Keluhi," 
Ezra10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib," 
Ezra10:37 Mattaniah, Mattenai, Jaasu." 
Ezra10:38 From the clan of Binnui: Shimei," 
Ezra10:39 Shelemiah, Nathan, Adaiah," 
Ezra10:40 Macnadebai, Shashai, Sharai," 
Ezra10:41 Azarel, Shelemiah, Shemariah," 
Ezra10:42 Shallum, Amariah, Joseph." 
Ezra10:43 From the clan of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jaddai, Joel, Benaiah." 
Ezra10:43 From the clan of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jaddai, Joel, Benaiah." 
Ezra10:44 All these men had married foreign women. They sent them away, together with their children." 
Nehemiah1:1 These are the words of Nehemiah, Hacaliah's son. It was the month Kislev. This was when King Artaxerxes had ruled for 20 years. I was in the big city of Susa." 
Nehemiah1:2 Hanani, my brother, and some other men arrived from Judah. I asked them for news of the Jews who had returned there from exile in Babylon. I asked them for news about Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah1:3 They told me, ‘The Jews who returned to Judah are in much trouble. The walls of the city still have lots of holes in them. Fire has burned the city's gates down to the ground. So the people are very ashamed.’" 
Nehemiah1:4 After they told me this, I sat down and I wept. I was very sad for many days. I did not eat or drink anything and I prayed to God." 
Nehemiah1:5 I prayed, ‘ Lord, God of heaven, you are great and powerful. You always continue to love your people, as you have promised to do. You are kind to those people who love you and obey your commands." 
Nehemiah1:6 Please listen to my prayer. I am your servant. I am praying in the day and in the night on behalf of your servants, the Israelites. I agree that we have all done wrong things. That includes me and my family. We have not obeyed you." 
Nehemiah1:7 We have done wicked things against you. We have not obeyed the commands, the laws and the rules that you gave to your servant Moses." 
Nehemiah1:8 Remember what you told your servant, Moses. You told him, “If the Israelites turn away from me, I will make them live among foreign people in many different places." 
Nehemiah1:9 But if they return to me and they obey my commands, I will be kind to them. I will bring them back together again from all the different places where they are living. Even if they live far away, I will find them. I will bring them to the place that I have chosen to give honour to my name.”" 
Nehemiah1:10 Lord, these are your people and your servants. You used your great power and strength to rescue them." 
Nehemiah1:11 Please listen to my prayer, my Lord. Hear the prayers of your people who love to respect your name. Please cause the king to be kind to me. May he give me what I ask for.’ I was the king's cupbearer." 
Nehemiah2:1 It was the month of Nisan, when King Artaxerxes had ruled Babylon for 20 years. I had the king's wine ready for him to drink. I took it to give to him. He saw that I was sad. I had not been sad in front of the king before." 
Nehemiah2:2 The king asked me, ‘Why are you sad? You are not ill. This must mean that you are very upset.’ I was very frightened." 
Nehemiah2:3 I replied to the king, ‘May the king live for ever! I am sad because enemies have destroyed the city where my ancestors are buried. They burned the city's gates.’" 
Nehemiah2:4 The king asked me, ‘What do you want me to do for you?’ So I prayed to our God who rules from heaven." 
Nehemiah2:5 Then I said to the king, ‘Please sir, if you think it is a good idea and you are pleased with me, let me go to Judah. If you agree to send me there, I can build again the city where my ancestors are buried.’" 
Nehemiah2:6 The king was sitting with the queen next to him. The king asked me, ‘How long will you be away? When will you return?’ I told the king how long I would be away. Because the king was happy to send me, I told him when I would leave." 
Nehemiah2:7 I said to the king, ‘If the king agrees, please give me some letters to say that I have your authority. I will show the letters to your officers who rule the region on the west side of the Euphrates River. Then I will be able to travel safely on the journey to Judah." 
Nehemiah2:8 Also give me a letter for Asaph, who takes care of the king's forest there. Tell him to give me wood from the trees. I need to make beams to mend the gates of the strong place near the temple. I also need to mend the city's wall. And I need to build a house for myself to live in.’ The king agreed to do what I asked him, because my God was with me." 
Nehemiah2:9 The king sent officers of his army to keep me safe on the journey. He also sent soldiers who rode on horses. I went to the king's officers on the west side of the Euphrates River. I gave them the letters which the king had written. 
Nehemiah2:10 But two important men were not happy when they heard that I had come to help the Israelite people. They were Sanballat, who came from Horon, and Tobiah, an Ammonite officer." 
Nehemiah2:11 I arrived in the city of Jerusalem. After three days," 
Nehemiah2:12 I went out at night. I took a few of my friends with me. I was riding on a donkey. That was the only animal that we took with us. I did not tell anyone the idea that God had put in my mind about Jerusalem. 
Nehemiah2:13 I went through the Valley Gate to the Jackal Well and the Dung Gate. As I went, I looked carefully at Jerusalem's walls. They were broken. Fire had destroyed the city's gates." 
Nehemiah2:14 I went to the Fountain Gate and then to the King's Pool. The path there was too narrow for my donkey to pass through. 
Nehemiah2:15 So I went along the path in the valley while it was still night. I continued to look at the wall. I reached the Valley Gate again and I went back into the city. 
Nehemiah2:16 The city's officers did not know that I had done this. I had not told anyone what I had decided to do. I had not told any of the other Jews, their priests, their leaders or the city's officers. I had not told any of the people who would help to do the work on the wall." 
Nehemiah2:17 But then I said to them, ‘We have a big problem. Jerusalem has become a heap of stones. Fire has burned the gates. You must help to build the city's walls again. Then we will no longer be ashamed of our city.’" 
Nehemiah2:18 I told the people how God had helped me to come to Jerusalem. I told them what the king had said to me. Then the people said, ‘We will start to build now!’ The people prepared to start this good work." 
Nehemiah2:19 But Sanballat, Tobiah and an Arab man called Geshem heard about what we were doing. They laughed at us and they insulted us. They said, ‘What are you trying to do? Have you turned against the king's authority?’" 
Nehemiah2:20 I replied to them, ‘Our God who rules from heaven will help us. We are his servants and we will start to build. But you have never been true citizens of Jerusalem.’" 
Nehemiah3:1 The leader of the priests, Eliashib, and the other priests built the Sheep Gate. They fixed the doors in it again. They built the wall as far as the Tower of the Hundred and the Tower of Hananel. They dedicated it all to God." 
Nehemiah3:2 The men from Jericho built the next part of the city wall. Imri's son, Zakkur, built the next part of the wall." 
Nehemiah3:3 The clan of Hassenaah built the Fish Gate. They put up the beams and they fixed its doors in their place. They made wooden bars and iron bars so that they could lock the doors. 
Nehemiah3:4 Meremoth, son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz, worked on the next part of the wall. Meshullam, son of Berekiah, the son of Meshezabel, repaired the wall next to Meremoth. Baana's son, Zadok, repaired the next part of the wall." 
Nehemiah3:5 The men from Tekoa repaired the next part. But their town's leaders refused to do the hard work. 
Nehemiah3:6 Paseah's son, Joiada, and Besodeiah's son, Meshullam, worked on the Old Gate. They put up the beams and they fixed its doors in their place. They made wooden bars and iron bars so that they could lock the doors." 
Nehemiah3:7 Men from Gibeon and Mizpah repaired the wall next to the Old Gate. They included Melatiah from Gibeon and Jadon, who came from Meronoth. The officer who ruled the region on the west side of the Euphrates River had authority over those towns." 
Nehemiah3:8 Harhaiah's son, Uzziel, repaired the next part of the wall. Uzziel was a man who made things from gold. Hananiah repaired the wall next to Uzziel. Hananiah knew how to make perfume. Hananiah and Uzziel repaired the wall as far as the Broad Wall." 
Nehemiah3:9 Hur's son, Rephaiah, repaired the next part of the wall. Rephaiah ruled over part of Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah3:10 Harumaph's son, Jedaiah, worked on the next part of the wall that was near to his own house. Hashabneiah's son, Hattush, repaired the wall next to Jedaiah." 
Nehemiah3:11 Harim's son, Malkijah, and Pahath-Moab's son, Hasshub, worked on another part of the wall. They also repaired the Tower of the Ovens." 
Nehemiah3:12 Hallohesh's son, Shallum, repaired the next part of the wall. He ruled over part of Jerusalem. Shallum's daughters helped him with the work." 
Nehemiah3:13 Hanun and the people who lived in Zanoah repaired the Valley Gate. They built it and they fixed its doors in their place. They made wooden bars and iron bars so that they could lock the doors. The same people also repaired 450 metres of the city wall, as far as the Dung Gate." 
Nehemiah3:14 Rekab's son, Malkijah, repaired the Dung Gate. He put the doors in their place, as well as their wooden bars and iron bars. Malkijah had authority over the region of Beth Hakkerem." 
Nehemiah3:15 Col-Hozeh's son, Shallun, repaired the Fountain Gate. He was the ruler of the region of Mizpah. Shallun built a roof over the Fountain Gate. He fixed its doors in their place, as well as their wooden bars and iron bars. Shallun also repaired the wall of the Pool of Siloam, near the king's garden. He repaired the wall as far as the steps that come down from the City of David." 
Nehemiah3:16 Azbuk's son, Nehemiah, worked on another part of the wall. He was ruler of part of the region of Beth Zur. He repaired the wall along to the place of the royal graves. He continued to work as far as the pool that people had built and the House of the Brave Soldiers." 
Nehemiah3:17 Levites worked along the next part of the wall. Bani's son, Rehum, worked there. Hashabiah repaired the next part of the wall. He ruled over part of the region of Keilah. He did the work on behalf of that region." 
Nehemiah3:18 More Levites worked on the next part. Henadad's son, Binnui, worked there. He also ruled over part of Keilah." 
Nehemiah3:19 Jeshua's son, Ezer, worked on another part of the wall. It was in front of the building where the soldiers kept their weapons. He repaired the wall as far as the corner. Ezer ruled over Mizpah." 
Nehemiah3:20 Next, Zabbai's son, Baruch, worked hard on another part of the wall. He started from the corner of the wall and went as far as the door of Eliashib's house. Eliashib was the leader of the priests." 
Nehemiah3:21 Meremoth, son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz, repaired the next part, from the door of Eliashib's house to the end of it." 
Nehemiah3:22 Priests from the region near Jerusalem repaired the next part of the wall. 
Nehemiah3:23 Benjamin and Hasshub repaired the wall in front of their house. Next, Azariah, son of Maaseiah, the son of Ananiah, repaired the wall near his house." 
Nehemiah3:24 Henadad's son, Binnui, repaired from Azariah's house to the corner, where it has a strong point." 
Nehemiah3:25 Uzai's son, Palal, worked near the corner and the tower on the top of the king's palace. That was beside the yard for the guards. Parosh's son, Pedaiah," 
Nehemiah3:26 repaired the next part of the wall, towards the east. The temple servants who lived on Ophel Hill worked with them. They repaired the wall as far as the Water Gate and the tower which stands there." 
Nehemiah3:27 The men from Tekoa repaired the wall from the place near the great tower as far as the wall of Ophel. 
Nehemiah3:28 The priests repaired the wall on the north side of the Horse Gate. Each priest repaired the wall in front of his house. 
Nehemiah3:29 Immer's son, Zadok, repaired the wall in front of his house. Next to him, Shecaniah's son, Shemaiah, repaired the wall. He was the guard at the city's East Gate." 
Nehemiah3:30 Next, Shelemiah's son, Hananiah, repaired the wall. Hanun worked with him. He was the sixth son of Zalaph. Berekiah's son, Meshullam, repaired the wall in front of the place where he lived." 
Nehemiah3:31 Malkijah repaired the wall as far as the temple servants' house. He continued to work as far as the traders' houses in front of the Meeting Gate. He repaired the wall as far as the room above the wall's corner. Malkijah made things from gold. 
Nehemiah3:32 Between there and the Sheep Gate the traders and the men who worked with gold repaired the wall. 
Nehemiah4:1 Sanballat heard that we were building the wall. He was very angry and upset. He laughed at the Jews. 
Nehemiah4:2 His officers and Samaria's army were with him. He said to them, ‘Those Jews have great ideas, but they are weak. How will they ever repair the wall? Will they give sacrifices to their God? Will that help them to repair the wall in one day? They will never build anything from this heap of stones that fire has destroyed!’" 
Nehemiah4:3 Tobiah the Ammonite was with him. Tobiah said, ‘The wall that the Jews are trying to build is very weak. Even if a little fox climbs up on it, the stones would all fall down again!’" 
Nehemiah4:4 So I prayed, ‘Hear us, our God. Our enemies think that we are fools. Make them seem like fools themselves! Let their enemies take them away as slaves." 
Nehemiah4:5 Do not forgive their sins. Do not say that they are not guilty. They have insulted us when we are trying to build.’ 
Nehemiah4:6 The people worked hard because they wanted to build the wall. As a result, the wall all around the city soon became half as high as the old wall." 
Nehemiah4:7 Sanballat, Tobiah, the Arab people, the Ammonites and the people who came from Ashdod all heard that the work was continuing. They could see that we were repairing the holes in the wall. So they were very angry." 
Nehemiah4:8 They met together to decide what they should do. They decided to attack Jerusalem so that there would be trouble. 
Nehemiah4:9 So we continued to pray to our God. We also put guards on the walls in the day and the night, to keep the city safe." 
Nehemiah4:10 Then the people in Judah complained, ‘Our workers are becoming weak. There are so many stones and rubbish! We cannot finish the work on the wall!’" 
Nehemiah4:11 At the same time, our enemies were boasting, ‘Before the Jews even see us, we will attack them. We will kill them before they know what is happening. That will be the end of their work on the wall!’" 
Nehemiah4:12 The Jews who lived near our enemies warned us many times. They told us that our enemies would attack us wherever we went. 
Nehemiah4:13 So I put some men behind the lowest part of the wall where there were holes. Each of the families had guards with swords, spears, bows and arrows." 
Nehemiah4:14 I went round the city and I looked at everything. I said to the leaders, the officers and the people, ‘Do not be afraid of our enemies. Remember that our Lord God is great and powerful. Fight on behalf of your brothers, your sons, your daughters and your wives. Fight to keep your homes safe.’" 
Nehemiah4:15 Our enemies realized that we knew what they had decided to do. God had stopped them from doing what they wanted. So each of us went back to our work on the wall. 
Nehemiah4:16 After that day, half of my men continued to do the work on the wall. The other half carried spears, shields and bows. They also wore armour. The officers stood behind the people while they built the wall." 
Nehemiah4:17 The men who were carrying materials held them with one hand. They held a weapon in their other hand. 
Nehemiah4:18 All of the builders had swords tied on their belts while they were building. There was a man who would make a sound with his trumpet if there was danger. He stayed near me. 
Nehemiah4:19 I said to the leaders, the officers and all the people, ‘It is hard work and the wall is very long. So we are not working near to each other." 
Nehemiah4:20 When you hear the sound of the trumpet, come to join us here. Our God will fight on our behalf.’" 
Nehemiah4:21 We continued to work on the wall every day, from dawn until it became dark. Half of the men held spears to be our guards." 
Nehemiah4:22 I said to the people, ‘Everybody must stay in Jerusalem each night, together with those who are helping them. Then they can be our guards to keep us safe at night. During each day they can do the work.’" 
Nehemiah4:23 I did not take my clothes off at night time, and neither did any of my friends. The workers and the guards who were with me kept their clothes on all the time. Everyone carried his own weapon whatever he was doing." 
Nehemiah5:1 Some men and their wives were upset, because of the things that some other Jews were doing." 
Nehemiah5:2 Many of them said, ‘We are big families, with many sons and daughters. We need to have food to eat so that we can stay alive.’" 
Nehemiah5:3 Other people said, ‘People have to lend us money to buy food. We have to give them our fields, our vineyards and our homes until we can pay them back.’" 
Nehemiah5:4 Some other people said, ‘We have to pay taxes to the king for our fields and our vineyards. People had to lend us money to pay the taxes." 
Nehemiah5:5 Now we have to sell our sons and daughters as slaves so that we can pay back the money. But we are from the same human family as those other Jews. Our children are not different from their children. Already some of our daughters have become slaves. Our fields and vineyards now belong to other people, so we are helpless to do anything.’" 
Nehemiah5:6 When I heard what they were complaining about, I was very angry." 
Nehemiah5:7 I thought carefully about what they had said. Then I said to the Jewish leaders and officers, ‘You are cheating your own people! You are taking back more money than you have lent to them.’ I told the Jews to come together for a big meeting." 
Nehemiah5:8 I said to them all, ‘When our own Jewish people have become slaves of foreign people, we have tried hard to buy them back. But now you are making your own people sell their children to you. And you want us to pay you to buy them back again!’ The Jewish leaders kept quiet. They had nothing to say." 
Nehemiah5:9 Then I said to them, ‘You are doing something that is completely wrong. Instead, you should obey God and live in a good way. Then the foreign people who are our enemies will not have a chance to insult us." 
Nehemiah5:10 I myself have agreed to lend poor people money and food. My family and my friends have done the same thing. But we must not make those poor people pay back more to us. 
Nehemiah5:11 Now you must give back to them their fields, their vineyards, their gardens of olive trees and their houses. Do not make them pay any extra money for the money, food, wine or olive oil that you lent to them.’" 
Nehemiah5:12 The leaders replied, ‘We will give everything back to them. We will not make them pay back their debts to us. We will do everything that you have said.’ I told the priests to come to our meeting. While they were with us, I made the Jewish leaders and officers make a strong promise. They agreed to do what they had promised to do." 
Nehemiah5:13 I shook my coat so that everything fell out of its pockets. I said, ‘You must all do what you have promised to do. If not, I pray that God will shake you out like that! He will take away your homes and all your things. You will be left with nothing!’ Everyone at the meeting said, ‘ Amen, we agree!’ They praised the Lord. All the people did what they had promised to do." 
Nehemiah5:14 All the time that I ruled the land of Judah, I did not eat the government officer's special food. I was the ruler from the 20th year of King Artaxerxes until his 32nd year as king. For all those 12 years, I and my relatives refused to eat the special food." 
Nehemiah5:15 The officers who ruled there before I came made much trouble for the people. They took food and wine from the people, as well as 40 silver coins every day. Their servants also gave the people much trouble. But I did not live like them, because I wanted to please God." 
Nehemiah5:16 I worked hard to help the work on the city's walls. I did not take any land for myself. All my servants also had to join with me in the work. 
Nehemiah5:17 150 Jews and their officers ate meals with me. There were also people who came to visit from countries that were near to us. 
Nehemiah5:18 Every day, my servants cooked one ox, six good sheep and some birds for us to eat. Every ten days they bought for me many different kinds of wine. But I did not ask to receive the extra food that the ruler usually receives. The people were working hard on the wall and I did not want to give them more trouble." 
Nehemiah5:19 My God, please remember the many things that I have done to help my people. Please bless me." 
Nehemiah6:1 We had finished building the city's wall. There were no holes in it now, but we had not fixed the doors in the gates. Sanballat, Tobiah, Geshem (the Arab) and all our enemies heard that we had finished building the wall." 
Nehemiah6:2 Sanballat and Geshem sent this message to me: ‘Come and meet with us in a village on the low land of Ono.’ I realized that they wanted to cause trouble for me. 
Nehemiah6:3 So I sent this message back to them: ‘I am too busy to come and meet you. The work here is too important. I cannot stop the work here to come and meet you.’ 
Nehemiah6:4 They sent me the same message four times. Each time, I refused." 
Nehemiah6:5 Then Sanballat sent his officer to me with a fifth message. He carried a letter that was open for anyone to read. 
Nehemiah6:6 This is what the letter said: ‘To Nehemiah. Other nations have heard the news that you and the other Jews have decided to turn against the king. Geshem also says that this is true. This is why you are building the city's wall. People are saying that you want to rule the Jews as their king. 
Nehemiah6:7 You have chosen some prophets to speak your message in Jerusalem. You have told them to say, “There is now a king in Judah!” The king of Persia will surely hear this news. So we must meet together and talk about it.’" 
Nehemiah6:8 I sent this reply: ‘What you say is not true. Nothing like that is happening. You are only speaking your own ideas.’ 
Nehemiah6:9 All our enemies wanted to frighten us. They thought, ‘The Jews will be so afraid that they will not be able to work well. They will not finish building the wall.’ So I prayed to God, ‘Give me strength to continue the work.’" 
Nehemiah6:10 One day I went to Shemaiah's house. He was the son of Delaiah, Mehetabel's son. He could not go out of his house. He said to me, ‘Meet me inside the temple of God. We will close the temple's doors. Our enemies are coming to kill you. One night soon, they will come to kill you.’" 
Nehemiah6:11 But I said, ‘I am not a man who would run away to be safe. I will not go into the temple to save my life.’" 
Nehemiah6:12 Then I realized that Shemaiah was not telling me a message from God. I knew that Tobiah and Sanballat had paid him to say this to me. 
Nehemiah6:13 They wanted to frighten me so that I would hide in the temple. My enemies knew that this would be a sin. If I did that, I would be ashamed. People would no longer respect me." 
Nehemiah6:14 My God, please remember all the bad things that Tobiah and Sanballat have done. Also remember the prophetess, Noadiah, and the other prophets who have tried to frighten me." 
Nehemiah6:15 We finished the city's wall on the 25th day of the month Elul. It had taken 52 days to build the wall again. 
Nehemiah6:16 When our enemies heard this news, they were afraid. The people of all the nations who lived near Jerusalem were very afraid. They knew that our God had helped us to finish this great work." 
Nehemiah6:17 During this time, the leaders in Judah were sending letters to Tobiah. Tobiah was also sending his replies to them." 
Nehemiah6:18 Many people in Judah had promised to obey Tobiah. That was because his wife was the daughter of Arah's son, Shecaniah. Also, his son Jehohanan had married the daughter of Berekiah's son, Meshullam." 
Nehemiah6:19 The leaders would often speak about the good things that Tobiah had done. They would then go and tell Tobiah everything that I had said. So Tobiah continued to send letters to frighten me. 
Nehemiah7:1 When we had built the wall, we fixed the doors in their places. We chose men to be guards for the city's gates. We also chose singers and Levites to serve God." 
Nehemiah7:2 I gave authority over Jerusalem to my brother Hanani and to Hananiah. Hananiah was the leader of the men in Jerusalem's strong building. He was a faithful man who respected God more than many men do. 
Nehemiah7:3 I said to them, ‘Do not open Jerusalem's gates until the sun is high in the sky. Shut the gates and lock them while the guards are still there. Choose people who live in Jerusalem to be guards for the city. Some guards must stand at the city's gates. Other guards must stand near their own houses.’" 
Nehemiah7:4 Jerusalem was a large city, but not many people lived in it. We had not yet built many houses." 
Nehemiah7:5 It was not easy to keep the city safe. Then God put an idea in my mind. I called the leaders, the officers and the other people to meet together. I wanted to check the lists of their families. I found the list of those people who had first returned to Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah7:6 This is the list of the Jews who returned to Jerusalem and the other towns of Judah. King Nebuchadnezzar had taken them away as prisoners to Babylon. Now each of them had returned to live in his own town. 
Nehemiah7:7 These people came from Babylon with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum and Baanah. This is a list of the number of men in each Israelite clan who returned:" 
Nehemiah7:8 The clan of Parosh: 2,172." 
Nehemiah7:9 The clan of Shephatiah: 372. 
Nehemiah7:10 The clan of Arah: 652. 
Nehemiah7:11 The clan of Pahath-Moab (descendants of Jeshua and Joab): 2,818." 
Nehemiah7:12 The clan of Elam: 1,254." 
Nehemiah7:13 The clan of Zattu: 845. 
Nehemiah7:14 The clan of Zaccai: 760. 
Nehemiah7:15 The clan of Binnui: 648. 
Nehemiah7:16 The clan of Bebai: 628. 
Nehemiah7:17 The clan of Azgad: 2,322." 
Nehemiah7:18 The clan of Adonikam: 667. 
Nehemiah7:19 The clan of Bigvai: 2,067." 
Nehemiah7:20 The clan of Adin: 655. 
Nehemiah7:21 The clan of Ater (descendants of Hezekiah): 98. 
Nehemiah7:22 The clan of Hashum: 328. 
Nehemiah7:23 The clan of Bezai: 324. 
Nehemiah7:24 The clan of Hariph: 112. 
Nehemiah7:25 The clan of Gibeon: 95. 
Nehemiah7:26 The number of men who belonged to these towns: Bethlehem and Netophah: 188. 
Nehemiah7:27 Anathoth: 128. 
Nehemiah7:28 Beth Azmaveth: 42. 
Nehemiah7:29 Kiriath-Jearim, Kephirah and Beeroth: 743." 
Nehemiah7:30 Ramah and Geba: 621. 
Nehemiah7:31 Michmash: 122. 
Nehemiah7:32 Bethel and Ai: 123. 
Nehemiah7:33 The other Nebo: 52. 
Nehemiah7:34 The other Elam: 1,254." 
Nehemiah7:35 Harim: 320. 
Nehemiah7:36 Jericho: 345. 
Nehemiah7:37 Lod, Hadid and Ono: 721." 
Nehemiah7:38 Senaah: 3,930." 
Nehemiah7:39 These priests also returned: The clan of Jedaiah (descendants of Jeshua): 973. 
Nehemiah7:40 The clan of Immer: 1,052." 
Nehemiah7:41 The clan of Pashhur: 1,247." 
Nehemiah7:42 The clan of Harim: 1,017." 
Nehemiah7:43 These Levites also returned: The clans of Jeshua and Kadmiel (descendants of Hodaviah): 74. 
Nehemiah7:44 Singers who were descendants of Asaph: 148. 
Nehemiah7:45 Temple guards who were descendants of Shallum, Ater, Talmon, Akkub, Hatita and Shobai: 138." 
Nehemiah7:46 These were the families of the temple servants who returned: Ziha, Hasupha, Tabbaoth," 
Nehemiah7:47 Keros, Sia, Padon," 
Nehemiah7:48 Lebana, Hagaba, Shalmai," 
Nehemiah7:49 Hanan, Giddel, Gahar," 
Nehemiah7:50 Reaiah, Rezin, Nekoda," 
Nehemiah7:51 Gazzam, Uzza, Paseah," 
Nehemiah7:52 Besai, Meunim, Nephussim," 
Nehemiah7:53 Bakbuk, Hakupha, Harhur," 
Nehemiah7:54 Bazluth, Mehida, Harsha," 
Nehemiah7:55 Barkos, Sisera, Temah," 
Nehemiah7:56 Neziah and Hatipha. 
Nehemiah7:57 These were the servants of King Solomon whose descendants returned: Sotai, Sophereth, Perida," 
Nehemiah7:58 Jaala, Darkon, Giddel," 
Nehemiah7:59 Shephatiah, Hattil, Pokereth-Hazzebaim and Amon." 
Nehemiah7:60 The temple servants and the descendants of Solomon's servants were 392 men. 
Nehemiah7:61 There were some people who came from the towns of Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Kerub, Addon and Immer. But they had no lists to show that they belonged to Israelite families." 
Nehemiah7:62 There were from the clans of Delaiah, Tobiah and Nekoda: 642." 
Nehemiah7:63 There were also some priests from the clans of Hobaiah, Hakkoz and Barzillai. (Barzillai was a man who had married a daughter of Barzillai, who came from Gilead. So he took Barzillai's name for himself.)" 
Nehemiah7:64 These people could not find any lists to show who their ancestors were. Because of this, they could not serve God as priests." 
Nehemiah7:65 The officer who ruled in Judah said that they must not eat the priests' special food. They must wait until there was a priest who could use the Urim and Thummim to decide the right thing to do. 
Nehemiah7:66 The number of all the people who returned to Judea was 42,360." 
Nehemiah7:67 There were also 7,337 male and female servants, as well as 245 male and female singers." 
Nehemiah7:68 They had 736 horses and 245 mules," 
Nehemiah7:69 435 camels and 6,720 donkeys." 
Nehemiah7:70 Some of the family leaders gave money to help build the wall. The officer who ruled there gave 8.5 kilograms of gold, 50 bowls and 530 sets of special clothes for the priests." 
Nehemiah7:71 Some family leaders gave 170 kilograms of gold and 1,300 kilograms of silver." 
Nehemiah7:72 The rest of the people gave 170 kilograms of gold and 1,300 kilograms of silver. They also gave 67 sets of special clothes for the priests." 
Nehemiah7:73 The priests, the Levites, the temple guards, the singers and the temple servants now lived in towns near Jerusalem. The other people also lived in the towns of Judah. When the seventh month of the year arrived, all the Israelite people were living in their towns and cities." 
Nehemiah8:1 All the people met together in the open place near the Water Gate. They asked Ezra to bring the book of the Law of Moses. The Lord had given those laws to the Israelites so that they would obey them. 
Nehemiah8:1 All the people met together in the open place near the Water Gate. They asked Ezra to bring the book of the Law of Moses. The Lord had given those laws to the Israelites so that they would obey them. 
Nehemiah8:2 On the first day of the seventh month, Ezra brought the book of the Law to the people. In the crowd, there were men and women, as well as children who were old enough to understand." 
Nehemiah8:2 On the first day of the seventh month, Ezra brought the book of the Law to the people. In the crowd, there were men and women, as well as children who were old enough to understand." 
Nehemiah8:3 Ezra read aloud while he stood there, in the open place near the Water Gate. He read to all the men, women and children from dawn until noon. Everyone listened carefully to Ezra while he read the book of the Law." 
Nehemiah8:3 Ezra read aloud while he stood there, in the open place near the Water Gate. He read to all the men, women and children from dawn until noon. Everyone listened carefully to Ezra while he read the book of the Law." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra stood on a tall tower to speak to the people. They had built it from wood so that they could hear him. Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah and Maaseiah stood at his right side. Pedaiah, Mishael, Malkijah, Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah and Meshullam stood at his left side." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra stood on a tall tower to speak to the people. They had built it from wood so that they could hear him. Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah and Maaseiah stood at his right side. Pedaiah, Mishael, Malkijah, Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah and Meshullam stood at his left side." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra stood on a tall tower to speak to the people. They had built it from wood so that they could hear him. Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah and Maaseiah stood at his right side. Pedaiah, Mishael, Malkijah, Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah and Meshullam stood at his left side." 
Nehemiah8:5 Ezra opened the book. All the people could see him because he was high above them. When he opened the book, the crowd all stood up." 
Nehemiah8:5 Ezra opened the book. All the people could see him because he was high above them. When he opened the book, the crowd all stood up." 
Nehemiah8:6 Ezra praised the Lord, the great God. All the people lifted their hands and they shouted, ‘ Amen! Amen!’ They bent their heads to the ground and they worshipped the Lord." 
Nehemiah8:6 Ezra praised the Lord, the great God. All the people lifted their hands and they shouted, ‘ Amen! Amen!’ They bent their heads to the ground and they worshipped the Lord." 
Nehemiah8:7 As the people listened, some Levites taught them the meaning of God's Law. The names of the Levites were: Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan and Pelaiah." 
Nehemiah8:8 They read the book of the Law and they explained it to the people. They helped the people to understand what Ezra read to them. 
Nehemiah8:8 They read the book of the Law and they explained it to the people. They helped the people to understand what Ezra read to them. 
Nehemiah8:9 Then Ezra (the priest who studied God's Law), Nehemiah (the ruler) and the Levites who were teaching the people said to all the people, ‘Do not cry or weep. Today is a special holy day for the Lord your God.’ They said this because the people were weeping. The words of the Law had made them sad." 
Nehemiah8:9 Then Ezra (the priest who studied God's Law), Nehemiah (the ruler) and the Levites who were teaching the people said to all the people, ‘Do not cry or weep. Today is a special holy day for the Lord your God.’ They said this because the people were weeping. The words of the Law had made them sad." 
Nehemiah8:10 Nehemiah said to the people, ‘Go to your homes and eat some good food. Drink sweet drinks. Share your food and your drink with people who do not have enough for themselves. This is a holy day for our Lord, so do not be sad. The Lord will give you joy so that you can be strong.’" 
Nehemiah8:11 The Levites also comforted the people. They said, ‘Do not weep. Today is a holy day, so do not be sad.’" 
Nehemiah8:12 Then the people went away to eat and to drink. They shared their food with other people. They were very happy because they now understood God's word that they had heard. 
Nehemiah8:13 On the second day of the seventh month, the leaders of families met together. They met with the priests, the Levites and with Ezra. They wanted to study the message of God's Law." 
Nehemiah8:13 On the second day of the seventh month, the leaders of families met together. They met with the priests, the Levites and with Ezra. They wanted to study the message of God's Law." 
Nehemiah8:14 They discovered what the Lord had commanded about a certain festival. The Lord had told Moses that the Israelites should live in huts during this festival. They should do that in the seventh month of each year. 
Nehemiah8:15 They discovered that they must send a message to everyone in Jerusalem and all Judah's cities. They must tell people, ‘Go into the hill country. Bring back branches from olive trees, wild olive trees, myrtle trees, palm trees and other trees with lots of leaves. Use these branches to build huts to live in. That is what God's Law teaches.’" 
Nehemiah8:16 So the people went out and they brought back branches. They built huts on their roofs and in the yards of their houses. They also built them in the yards of the temple and in the open places near the Water Gate and the Gate of Ephraim. 
Nehemiah8:17 Everyone who had returned from exile in Babylon built a hut. They lived in them during the festival and they were very happy. The Israelites had not done this before, since the time of Nun's son, Joshua." 
Nehemiah8:17 Everyone who had returned from exile in Babylon built a hut. They lived in them during the festival and they were very happy. The Israelites had not done this before, since the time of Nun's son, Joshua." 
Nehemiah8:18 Every day of the festival, Ezra read aloud from the book of God's Law. The feast continued for seven days. On the eighth day, the people all met together, as the Law said that they should do." 
Nehemiah8:18 Every day of the festival, Ezra read aloud from the book of God's Law. The feast continued for seven days. On the eighth day, the people all met together, as the Law said that they should do." 
Nehemiah9:1 On the 24th day of the same month, the Israelite people met together. They did not eat or drink. They wore sackcloth and they put dust on their heads." 
Nehemiah9:2 The Israelite people made themselves separate from foreign people. They stood up and they told God that they were sorry for their sins. They agreed that their ancestors had also done many bad things. 
Nehemiah9:3 While the Israelites stood there, they read from the book of God's Law during a quarter of the day. During another quarter of the day they told the Lord their God about their sins and they worshipped him." 
Nehemiah9:4 The Levites stood on some high steps. They called out in a loud voice to the Lord their God. Those Levites were Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani and Kenani." 
Nehemiah9:5 Then the Levites (Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah and Pethahiah) said, ‘Stand up and praise the Lord your God. He lives always and for ever.’ They said, ‘Your name is great and wonderful. We praise you more than words could ever say." 
Nehemiah9:6 Only you are the Lord. You made the sky and the heavens above the sky. You made all the stars, the earth and everything on it. You made the seas and everything in them. You give life to everything. The great crowd of angels in heaven bend down low to worship you." 
Nehemiah9:7 You are the Lord God who chose Abram. You brought him out of Ur, in Babylonia. You changed his name to be Abraham." 
Nehemiah9:8 You knew that Abraham trusted you, so you made a covenant with him. You promised to give the land of Canaan to his descendants. That was the country where the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Jebusites and Girgashites lived. You have done what you promised to do, because you are righteous." 
Nehemiah9:9 You saw that our ancestors suffered very much in Egypt. You heard them cry to you for help at the Red Sea. 
Nehemiah9:10 You did great miracles to show your power against Pharaoh, his officers and all his people. You knew that they were being cruel to your people. You showed everyone that you are a great God. And people still know that it is true." 
Nehemiah9:11 You divided the sea into two parts so that your people could go across it on a dry path. When Pharaoh's soldiers chased after them, you threw them into the sea. They drowned in the water, like a heavy stone." 
Nehemiah9:12 During the day, you led your people with a pillar of cloud. At night, you led them with a pillar of fire to give them light. You showed them the way that they should travel." 
Nehemiah9:13 At Mount Sinai, you came down from heaven and you spoke to your people. You gave them your laws, rules and commands, which are good, fair and true." 
Nehemiah9:14 You told them about the Sabbath and how to make it a special day. You gave all your laws to Moses so that he would teach them to your people. 
Nehemiah9:15 You gave your people bread from heaven when they were hungry. You gave them water from a rock to drink when they were thirsty. You commanded them to go to the land that you had promised to give them. You told them to take it for themselves. 
Nehemiah9:16 But our ancestors turned away from you. They would not agree to obey your commands. 
Nehemiah9:17 They refused to obey you. They forgot about all the miracles that you had done to help them. Instead, they turned against you. They chose a leader to take them back to Egypt, where they had been slaves. But you are a God who forgives people. You are kind to people. You are slow to get angry and your love for your people always continues. So you did not leave your people alone." 
Nehemiah9:18 Our ancestors made an image of a young cow to be their god. They said to each other, “This is our god who brought us out of Egypt.” They insulted you in that way, but you still did not turn away from your people." 
Nehemiah9:19 You were kind to them while they travelled in the desert. You continued to lead them with a pillar of cloud in the day. At night, you continued to show them the way with a pillar of fire. So they always knew which way to go." 
Nehemiah9:20 You gave them your good Spirit to teach them what to do. You continued to give them manna from heaven to eat. You gave them water from a rock to drink. 
Nehemiah9:21 During 40 years you took care of them in the desert. Their clothes did not spoil. Their feet did not become big with pain. 
Nehemiah9:22 You gave kingdoms and nations to your people. The borders of their land reached a long way. The land of King Sihon of Heshbon became their own land. So did the land of King Og of Bashan. 
Nehemiah9:23 You caused your people to have many descendants, as many as the stars in the sky. You brought them to the land that you had promised to their ancestors. You had told them to go and live in it." 
Nehemiah9:24 Their descendants went there and they took the land for themselves. You gave them power over the Canaanites and the other kings and nations who lived there. They could do whatever they wanted with those people. 
Nehemiah9:25 They took their strong cities and their good land for themselves. The houses of those people were full of many good things. Your people could use the things that were already there. They had their wells, their vineyards, their olive trees and other fruit trees. They had as much food as they could eat, so they became fat. The many good things that you gave them made them very happy." 
Nehemiah9:26 But your people did not obey you. They turned against you. They stopped obeying your laws. You sent your prophets to warn your people to return to you. But they killed the prophets that you sent to them. Your people insulted you in many bad ways. 
Nehemiah9:27 So you put them under the power of their enemies. And their enemies were cruel to them. Then your people called to you for help because they were in trouble. You heard them from your home in heaven. Because you are so kind, you gave them strong leaders. And those leaders saved them from their enemies." 
Nehemiah9:28 But when your people were living safely again, they did evil things again. So you left them to the power of their enemies. Your people called to you again for help. You heard them again from your home in heaven. Because you are so kind, you rescued them like that many times." 
Nehemiah9:29 You warned them to obey your laws. But they refused to listen to you. They did not obey your commands. You had given them rules which would help them to have true life if they obeyed them. But they would not obey your laws. They turned away from you and they continued to do bad things. 
Nehemiah9:30 You continued to help your people for many years. You sent your prophets to tell them messages from your Spirit. You warned them, but they refused to listen. So you put them under the power of the nations who lived near them." 
Nehemiah9:31 But because you are very kind, you did not turn away from them or destroy them. You are a God who is very kind and you forgive people." 
Nehemiah9:32 So we pray to you, our God. You are great and powerful. You continue to love your people as you have promised in your covenant with us. Please see how much trouble has come to us! Our kings, our leaders, our priests, our prophets and our ancestors and your people all belong to you. We have all had many great troubles since the time that the kings of Assyria attacked us." 
Nehemiah9:33 But when you punished us like that, you were right to do it. You have always been faithful. It is us who have done wicked things." 
Nehemiah9:34 Our kings, our leaders, our priests and our ancestors have not obeyed your laws. They have not listened to your commands. You warned them but they would not listen." 
Nehemiah9:35 When they had their own kingdom, they still would not agree to serve you. You gave them a good land to live in, with plenty of food. They enjoyed your good gifts, but they would not obey you. They did not stop doing evil things." 
Nehemiah9:36 So today we live like slaves. Yes, we are slaves in the land that you gave to our ancestors. You wanted them to enjoy all the good things that grow here." 
Nehemiah9:37 But because of our sins you have caused foreign kings to rule over us. They take the food that grows in our fields. They use us and our animals in any way that they like. So we are very upset!’ 
Nehemiah9:38 ‘Because of this we Israelite people are all making a promise. We are writing down our agreement to serve the Lord. Our leaders, our Levites and our priests will write their names on it to give it their authority.’" 
Nehemiah10:1 These people put their mark of authority on the agreement that they had written: Hacaliah's son, Nehemiah (the government officer), and Zedekiah." 
Nehemiah10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah10:3 Pashhur, Amariah, Malkijah," 
Nehemiah10:4 Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch," 
Nehemiah10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah," 
Nehemiah10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah," 
Nehemiah10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch," 
Nehemiah10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch," 
Nehemiah10:7 Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin," 
Nehemiah10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai and Shemaiah. Those were the priests." 
Nehemiah10:9 The Levites were: Azaniah's son, Jeshua, Binnui from the clan of Henadad, Kadmiel." 
Nehemiah10:10 Their relatives were: Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan," 
Nehemiah10:11 Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah," 
Nehemiah10:12 Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah," 
Nehemiah10:13 Hodiah, Bani and Beninu." 
Nehemiah10:14 The Israelite leaders were: Parosh, Pahath-Moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani," 
Nehemiah10:15 Bunni, Azgad, Bebai," 
Nehemiah10:16 Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin," 
Nehemiah10:17 Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur," 
Nehemiah10:18 Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai," 
Nehemiah10:19 Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai," 
Nehemiah10:20 Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir," 
Nehemiah10:21 Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua," 
Nehemiah10:22 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah," 
Nehemiah10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub," 
Nehemiah10:24 Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek," 
Nehemiah10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah," 
Nehemiah10:26 Ahiah, Hanan, Anan," 
Nehemiah10:27 Malluch, Harim and Baanah." 
Nehemiah10:28 The other people joined their leaders to make the same promise. They were priests, Levites, guards, singers and temple servants. There were also people who had kept themselves separate from their foreign neighbours so that they could obey God's Law. Their wives, sons and daughters also joined with them, as well as children who were old enough to understand." 
Nehemiah10:29 All these people joined with their leaders and they promised to obey the agreement. They agreed that God should punish them if they did not obey all of God's Law. That was the Law that God had given to his servant Moses. They promised very strongly to obey all the commands, rules and laws of the Lord, our Lord." 
Nehemiah10:30 They said, ‘We promise not to let our daughters marry the foreign people of this land. We will not let our sons marry their daughters." 
Nehemiah10:31 If foreign traders come to us on a Sabbath day, we will not buy their things. We will not buy their things on Sabbath days or on any special feast day. Every seventh year we will not plant any crops. We will also remove the debts of other people in every seventh year. They will not have to pay us back." 
Nehemiah10:32 We will obey the command to give a third of a shekel each year to take care of the temple of our God. 
Nehemiah10:33 That will pay for the special bread on the table in the temple. It will also pay for grain offerings and burnt offerings each day, as well as offerings on Sabbath days, feasts at each new moon, and other festivals. We will also use it for the sin offerings that take away Israel's guilt. And we will use it for all the work in the temple of our God." 
Nehemiah10:34 Each year we will throw dice to decide when different families must bring wood to the temple of our God. The priests, the Levites and the other people must do this. The wood will burn sacrifices on the altar of the Lord our God. We will do this in the way that the Law of the Lord our God teaches." 
Nehemiah10:35 We will also agree to bring the first crops from our land each year and the first fruits from our trees. We will bring these to the Lord 's temple. 
Nehemiah10:36 We will also bring our firstborn sons, as well as the first babies that our cows, sheep and goats give birth to. We will bring them to the priests who serve our God in the temple. That is what God's Law teaches us to do." 
Nehemiah10:37 We will also bring the first of everything that is ready for us to eat. That includes flour, fruit, wine, olive oil and other special offerings. We will bring them all to the priests and they will store them in the rooms of the temple. We will give tithes of the crops that grow on our land to the Levites. They receive the tithes that belong to them in each of the towns where we work." 
Nehemiah10:38 When the Levites receive their tithes, a priest of Aaron's family will be with them. Then the Levites will bring a tenth part of the tithes that they received to store in the temple." 
Nehemiah10:39 The Levites and the other Israelites will bring their gifts of grain, wine and olive oil to store in the temple's rooms. The priests will store them with the things that they use to serve God in the temple. That is the place where the priests who are working at that time, the temple guards and the singers stay. We agree that we will always take care of the temple of our God.’" 
Nehemiah11:1 The leaders of the Israelite people lived in Jerusalem. The other people threw lots to choose which other families would live there too. From every group of ten families they chose one family to live in Jerusalem, God's special city. The other families would stay in their own towns." 
Nehemiah11:2 The people asked God to bless all the men who chose to live in Jerusalem. 
Nehemiah11:3 These are the leaders of the region of Judah who went to live in Jerusalem. Other Israelites, priests, Levites, temple servants and descendants of King Solomon's servants lived in the other towns of Judah. Each of them lived in their own homes." 
Nehemiah11:4 But some of Judah's and Benjamin's descendants went to live in Jerusalem. This is who they were: From the tribe of Judah: Athaiah, son of Uzziah and Zechariah's grandson. His other ancestors were: Amariah, Shephatiah and Mahalalel. They were descendants of Judah's son, Perez." 
Nehemiah11:4 But some of Judah's and Benjamin's descendants went to live in Jerusalem. This is who they were: From the tribe of Judah: Athaiah, son of Uzziah and Zechariah's grandson. His other ancestors were: Amariah, Shephatiah and Mahalalel. They were descendants of Judah's son, Perez." 
Nehemiah11:5 Maaseiah, son of Baruch and Col-Hozeh's grandson. His other ancestors were: Hazaiah, Adaiah, Joiarib and Zechariah. They were descendants of Judah's son, Shelah." 
Nehemiah11:5 Maaseiah, son of Baruch and Col-Hozeh's grandson. His other ancestors were: Hazaiah, Adaiah, Joiarib and Zechariah. They were descendants of Judah's son, Shelah." 
Nehemiah11:6 There were 468 descendants of Perez who went to live in Jerusalem. They were all brave men. 
Nehemiah11:7 From the tribe of Benjamin: Sallu, son of Meshullam and Joed's grandson. His other ancestors were: Pedaiah, Kolaiah, Maaseiah, Ithiel and Jeshaiah." 
Nehemiah11:8 Sallu's relatives, Gabbai and Sallai were also there. There were 928 men from Benjamin's tribe." 
Nehemiah11:9 Zicri's son, Joel, was the officer with authority over them. Hassenuah's son, Judah, was the next most important officer in the city." 
Nehemiah11:9 Zicri's son, Joel, was the officer with authority over them. Hassenuah's son, Judah, was the next most important officer in the city." 
Nehemiah11:10 From the priests: Joiarib's son, Jedaiah, and Jakin." 
Nehemiah11:11 Seraiah, son of Hilkiah and Meshullam's grandson. His other ancestors were: Zadok, Meraioth and Ahitub. Ahitub had been the most important priest in God's temple." 
Nehemiah11:12 Their relatives worked with them in the temple. There were 822 men from that clan. Adaiah, son of Jeroham and Pelaliah's grandson. His other ancestors were: Amzi, Zechariah, Pashhur and Malkijah." 
Nehemiah11:12 Their relatives worked with them in the temple. There were 822 men from that clan. Adaiah, son of Jeroham and Pelaliah's grandson. His other ancestors were: Amzi, Zechariah, Pashhur and Malkijah." 
Nehemiah11:13 His relatives were with him. There were 242 men from that clan who were leaders of their families. Amashsai, son of Azarel and Ahzai's grandson. Ahzai was the son of Meshillemoth, son of Immer." 
Nehemiah11:14 His friends were with him. They were 128 strong brave men from that clan. Haggedolim's son, Zabdiel, was the officer with authority over them." 
Nehemiah11:15 From the Levites: Shemaiah, son of Hasshub and Azrikam's grandson. Azrikam was the son of Hashabiah, son of Bunni." 
Nehemiah11:16 Shabbethai and Jozabad were leaders of the Levites who had authority over work on the outside of God's temple. 
Nehemiah11:17 Mattaniah, son of Mica and Zabdi's grandson. Zabdi was Asaph's son. Mattaniah led the people when they prayed and they thanked God. Bakbukiah helped Mattaniah, as well as Shammua's son, Abda. Shammua was the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun." 
Nehemiah11:18 284 Levites lived in the holy city, Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah11:19 The temple guards were: Akkub, Talmon and their relatives. There were 172 guards who watched the gates." 
Nehemiah11:20 The other Israelite people, priests and Levites lived in the other towns of Judah. They lived in the homes that belonged to their families." 
Nehemiah11:21 The temple servants lived on Ophel Hill. Ziha and Gishpa had authority over them. 
Nehemiah11:22 Uzzi was the leader of the Levites in Jerusalem. He was the son of Bani and grandson of Hashabiah. His other ancestors were Mattaniah and Mica. Uzzi was one of Asaph's descendants. Asaph's family were the singers who had authority for the music in the temple. 
Nehemiah11:23 The king commanded the singers what they must do each day. 
Nehemiah11:24 Meshezabel's son, Pethahiah, was one of the king's advisors. He helped the king of Persia to know how to rule the Israelite people. Pethahiah was a descendant of Judah's son, Zerah." 
Nehemiah11:25 Many people of Judah lived in villages with their farms near them. Some of them lived in Kiriath Arba, Dibon and Jekabzeel, and in the villages near those towns." 
Nehemiah11:26 Other people lived in Jeshua, Moladah, Beth Pelet" 
Nehemiah11:27 and Hazar-Shual, as well as in Beersheba and the villages near it." 
Nehemiah11:28 Other people lived in Ziklag and Meconah and the villages near it. 
Nehemiah11:29 Some people lived in En Rimmon, Zorah, Jarmuth," 
Nehemiah11:30 Zanoah and Adullam and the villages near to those towns. Other people lived in Lachish and its fields, and in Azekah and its villages. The people were living everywhere from Beersheba to the Hinnom Valley." 
Nehemiah11:31 Some of Benjamin's descendants lived in Geba, Michmash, Aija, Bethel and its villages." 
Nehemiah11:32 Some of them lived in Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah," 
Nehemiah11:33 Hazor, Ramah and Gittaim." 
Nehemiah11:34 They also lived in Hadid, Zeboim Neballat," 
Nehemiah11:35 Lod, Ono and Ge-Harashim." 
Nehemiah11:36 Some of the Levites' clans who belonged with Judah went to live in Benjamin's land. 
Nehemiah12:1 This is a list of the priests and the Levites who returned with Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, and with Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:1 This is a list of the priests and the Levites who returned with Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, and with Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:1 This is a list of the priests and the Levites who returned with Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, and with Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush," 
Nehemiah12:3 Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth," 
Nehemiah12:4 Iddo, Ginnethon, Abijah," 
Nehemiah12:5 Mijamin, Moadiah, Bilgah," 
Nehemiah12:6 Shemaiah, Joiarib, Jedaiah," 
Nehemiah12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah and Jedaiah. These men were the leaders of the priests and the people who helped them in the time of Jeshua." 
Nehemiah12:8 The Levites were: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah and Mattaniah. Mattaniah and his relatives had authority for the songs which they sang to thank God in the temple." 
Nehemiah12:9 Bakbukiah and Unni and their relatives joined them when they sang. 
Nehemiah12:10 Jeshua was the father of Joiakim. Joiakim was the father of Eliashib. Eliashib was the father of Joiada," 
Nehemiah12:11 Joiada was the father of Jonathan, and Jonathan was the father of Jaddua." 
Nehemiah12:12 In the time of Joiakim, these were the priests who were leaders of their clans: Meraiah was the leader of Seraiah's clan. Hananiah was the leader of Jeremiah's clan." 
Nehemiah12:12 In the time of Joiakim, these were the priests who were leaders of their clans: Meraiah was the leader of Seraiah's clan. Hananiah was the leader of Jeremiah's clan." 
Nehemiah12:13 Meshullam was the leader of Ezra's clan. Jehohanan was the leader of Amariah's clan. 
Nehemiah12:13 Meshullam was the leader of Ezra's clan. Jehohanan was the leader of Amariah's clan. 
Nehemiah12:14 Jonathan was the leader of Malluch's clan. Joseph was the leader of Shecaniah's clan. 
Nehemiah12:15 Adna was the leader of Harim's clan. Helkai was the leader of Meremoth's clan. 
Nehemiah12:16 Zechariah was the leader of Iddo's clan. Meshullam was the leader of Ginnethon's clan. 
Nehemiah12:16 Zechariah was the leader of Iddo's clan. Meshullam was the leader of Ginnethon's clan. 
Nehemiah12:17 Zicri was the leader of Abijah's clan. Piltai was the leader of the clans of Miniamin and Moadiah. 
Nehemiah12:18 Shammua was the leader of Bilgah's clan. Jehonathan was the leader of Shemaiah's clan. 
Nehemiah12:19 Mattenai was the leader of Joiarib's clan. Uzzi was the leader of Jedaiah's clan. 
Nehemiah12:20 Kallai was the leader of Sallu's clan. Eber was the leader of Amok's clan. 
Nehemiah12:21 Hashabiah was the leader of Hilkiah's clan. Nethanel was the leader of Jedaiah's clan. 
Nehemiah12:22 During the time when Eliashib, Joiada, Johanan and Jaddua were the leaders of the priests, they recorded the names of the Levites and the priests who were leaders of their clans. At the time when King Darius ruled Persia, they stopped doing this." 
Nehemiah12:23 They wrote the names of Levi's descendants who were leaders of their clans in the history book of Israel. They did that until the time of Eliashib's son, Johanan." 
Nehemiah12:24 The leaders of the Levites were: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, Kadmiel's son, Jeshua, and their relatives. The two groups stood opposite each other to sing and praise and thank God. They did this in the way that God's servant, King David, had commanded." 
Nehemiah12:25 The guards for the temple gates were: Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon and Akkub. They watched the temple rooms near the gates, where they stored special things." 
Nehemiah12:25 The guards for the temple gates were: Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon and Akkub. They watched the temple rooms near the gates, where they stored special things." 
Nehemiah12:26 They served as guards in the time of Joiakim, son of Jeshua and grandson of Jozadak. This was in the time when Nehemiah had authority over Judah, and Ezra the priest was teaching people God's Law." 
Nehemiah12:26 They served as guards in the time of Joiakim, son of Jeshua and grandson of Jozadak. This was in the time when Nehemiah had authority over Judah, and Ezra the priest was teaching people God's Law." 
Nehemiah12:27 This is what happened when we dedicated the wall around Jerusalem to God. The people told the Levites to come to Jerusalem from the places where they lived. They wanted the Levites to help them to praise God with joy. The Levites would sing songs to thank God. They would make music with cymbals, harps and lyres." 
Nehemiah12:28 The temple singers came together from places near Jerusalem. They came from villages around Netophah," 
Nehemiah12:29 and from Beth Gilgal, Geba and Azmaveth. The singers had built these villages so that they could live near to Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah12:30 The priests and the Levites made themselves clean to serve God. Then they made the people clean, as well as the city's gates and its wall." 
Nehemiah12:31 I took the leaders of Judah to go and stand on top of the wall. I chose two large groups of singers to thank God with songs. I told the first group to walk along the wall to the south, in the direction of the Dung Gate." 
Nehemiah12:32 Hoshaiah and half of the leaders of Judah followed this group of singers. 
Nehemiah12:33 Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam," 
Nehemiah12:33 Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam," 
Nehemiah12:34 Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah and Jeremiah also followed them." 
Nehemiah12:34 Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah and Jeremiah also followed them." 
Nehemiah12:35 Some priests with trumpets went with them. They included Jonathan's son, Zechariah. He was a descendant of Asaph, through Shemaiah, Mattaniah, Micaiah and Zaccur, Asaph's son." 
Nehemiah12:35 Some priests with trumpets went with them. They included Jonathan's son, Zechariah. He was a descendant of Asaph, through Shemaiah, Mattaniah, Micaiah and Zaccur, Asaph's son." 
Nehemiah12:36 These other people helped Zechariah: Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah and Hanani. They all had musical instruments, as King David had told them. Ezra, the teacher of God's Law, led this group of people." 
Nehemiah12:36 These other people helped Zechariah: Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah and Hanani. They all had musical instruments, as King David had told them. Ezra, the teacher of God's Law, led this group of people." 
Nehemiah12:36 These other people helped Zechariah: Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah and Hanani. They all had musical instruments, as King David had told them. Ezra, the teacher of God's Law, led this group of people." 
Nehemiah12:37 When they arrived at the Fountain Gate they all went up the steps of the City of David. While they went up the steps, they passed King David's palace. Then they continued along the wall to the Water Gate, on the east side of the city." 
Nehemiah12:38 The second group of singers went in the opposite direction. I followed them along the top of the wall, with half of the people. We went past the Tower of the Ovens and we continued to the Broad Wall." 
Nehemiah12:39 Then we went over the Gate of Ephraim and over the Jeshanah Gate. We went along to the Fish Gate, the Tower of Hananel, the Tower of the Hundred and the Sheep Gate. We stopped at the Gate of the Guards." 
Nehemiah12:40 Then the two groups of singers went to stand in the yard of God's temple. I went with them, together with half of the officers." 
Nehemiah12:41 The priests who had trumpets were there: Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah and Hananiah." 
Nehemiah12:41 The priests who had trumpets were there: Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah and Hananiah." 
Nehemiah12:42 Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malkijah, Elam and Ezer followed them. Jezrahiah led the groups of singers, so that they sang loudly." 
Nehemiah12:43 On that day, the people offered many sacrifices to God. They were full of joy because God had caused them to be very happy. Men, women and children were all shouting with joy. Far away from the city, people could hear the noise!" 
Nehemiah12:44 On the same day, we chose men to take care of the rooms where they stored the people's gifts. Those gifts to God were the first fruits from the harvest and the tithes. They had to bring these gifts from the fields near each city. They read this in the Law. They were gifts for the Levites and the priests, as God's Law commanded. The people of Judah were happy to help the priests and Levites who served God." 
Nehemiah12:45 The priests and the Levites did the work that God had given them to make the people clean. The temple singers and guards also served God in the way that King David and his son Solomon had commanded. 
Nehemiah12:46 Long ago, at the time when King David and Asaph were alive, there had been people to lead the singers. They sang songs to praise God and to thank him." 
Nehemiah12:47 In the time of Zerubbabel and Nehemiah, all the Israelites shared their food with the singers and the guards. Every day they kept separate the part that was for the Levites. The Levites also kept separate the part that was for the priests." 
Nehemiah13:1 On that day, we read the book of Moses aloud to the people. One of the laws said that no descendant of Ammon or Moab should ever join with God's people when they met together." 
Nehemiah13:2 This was because they had not given the Israelites food and water. Instead, they had paid Balaam to curse the Israelites. But God did not agree to curse them. He blessed them instead." 
Nehemiah13:3 When the Israelite people heard this law, they sent away all the people who had foreign ancestors." 
Nehemiah13:4 Before this happened, I had given Eliashib the priest authority over the temple rooms where they stored special things. Eliashib was a friend of Tobiah." 
Nehemiah13:5 Eliashib let Tobiah use one of these rooms in the temple. It was a large room where they had stored the grain offerings, the incense and the special plates and tools that they used in the temple. They also stored the tithes of grain, wine and olive oil in that room. These gifts were for the Levites, the temple singers and guards, and also for the priests." 
Nehemiah13:6 But when this happened, I was not in Jerusalem. In the 32nd year that King Artaxerxes ruled in Babylon, I had returned to visit him. After I had been there for some time, I asked the king to let me return to Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah13:7 When I arrived back in Jerusalem, I heard about the evil thing that Eliashib had done. He had given Tobiah a large room in the yards of God's temple." 
Nehemiah13:8 I was very angry, so I threw all Tobiah's things out of the room." 
Nehemiah13:9 I gave a command that they must make the rooms clean again. Then I put back the special plates and tools that they used in the temple. I also put back the grain offerings and the incense. 
Nehemiah13:10 I also discovered that there was no food that should have been there for the Levites. As a result, the Levites and the singers had returned to work in their fields. They were not doing their work in God's temple." 
Nehemiah13:11 I warned the officers. I told them, ‘You have stopped taking care of God's temple!’ Then I told the Levites and the other workers to return to their jobs in the temple." 
Nehemiah13:12 After that, all the people in Judah brought their tithes of grain and wine and olive oil to store in the temple rooms." 
Nehemiah13:13 I gave Shelemiah the priest, Zadok, the student of God's Law, and Pedaiah, a Levite, authority to take care of the rooms. Hanan, son of Zaccur and Mattaniah's grandson, helped them. People knew that these men were faithful workers. They had authority to give out the offerings to the other workers who served God." 
Nehemiah13:14 Please remember what I have done, my God. I have been faithful to take care of the temple of my God, so that people can worship you there." 
Nehemiah13:15 In those days, I saw people in Judah who were working on Sabbath days. They were making wine. They were bringing their grain from the fields. They were making their donkeys carry the grain, as well as wine, grapes, figs and other things. They were bringing all those things into Jerusalem when it was a Sabbath day. I warned them that they must not sell things on any Sabbath day." 
Nehemiah13:16 People from Tyre who lived in Jerusalem sold fish and other things when it was a Sabbath day. They even brought those things into Jerusalem and sold them to the people of Judah. 
Nehemiah13:17 I was angry with the leaders of Judah. I said to them, ‘You are doing an evil thing. You are not making the Sabbath a special day." 
Nehemiah13:18 Your ancestors did the same thing. That is why God punished them and he brought trouble on this city. Now you will make God even more angry with us, Israel's people. You are insulting God's Sabbath day.’" 
Nehemiah13:19 So I gave a command to the guards at the city's gates. I told them, ‘You must close the gates in the evening before each Sabbath day begins. Do not open the gates again until the Sabbath day has finished.’ I told some of my own men to stand at the gates. They would watch carefully so that no traders would bring things into Jerusalem on any Sabbath day." 
Nehemiah13:20 A few times, some traders stayed outside Jerusalem all night, with the things that they wanted to sell." 
Nehemiah13:21 I warned them, ‘Do not stay beside the city's wall all night. If you do this again, I will take hold of you.’ After I said that, they did not come again to Jerusalem on a Sabbath day." 
Nehemiah13:22 Then I told the Levites that they must make themselves ready to serve God. I told them to go and stand at the gates as guards. They must keep the Sabbath day as a special day for God. My God, please remember this good thing that I have done. Because of your faithful love, please be kind to me." 
Nehemiah13:23 Also at that time, I discovered that men from Judah had married foreign women. They were women who came from Ashdod, Ammon and Moab." 
Nehemiah13:24 Half of their children spoke the language of Ashdod, or a language of the other foreign nations. They did not know how to speak the language of Judah." 
Nehemiah13:25 I was angry with them. I asked God to curse them. I hit some of the men. I pulled out the hair of some of them. I told them to make a promise in God's name. I said to them, ‘You must not let your daughters marry the sons of those foreign people. You must not let their daughters marry your sons. You yourselves must not marry foreign women either." 
Nehemiah13:26 Solomon, king of Israel, did a bad thing when he married foreign women. There was no other king as great as him in any other nation. God loved him. God chose him to be king over all Israel. But Solomon's foreign wives caused him to do bad things, even though he was so great." 
Nehemiah13:27 We can never agree to all the evil things that you have done. If we all married foreign women, we would not be faithful to our God.’" 
Nehemiah13:28 Joiada was the son of Eliashib, the leader of the priests. One of Joiada's sons had married a daughter of Sanballat, who came from Horon. I sent Joiada's son away from Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah13:29 My God, remember what these people have done. They have not been faithful to you as your priests. They have spoiled the covenant that you made with the priests and the other descendants of Levi." 
Nehemiah13:30 After that, I made the priests and the Levites clean to serve God. I made them become separate from any foreign thing. I told each of them which job they should do." 
Nehemiah13:31 I also made sure that people brought wood to the temple for sacrifices on the altar. I made them bring the first crops and fruits from their fields for the offerings. My God, please remember to bless me." 
Esther1:1 These things happened when King Xerxes ruled. He was the king who ruled over 127 regions, from India to Ethiopia." 
Esther1:2 King Xerxes lived in the capital, the city of Susa." 
Esther1:3 During the third year that he ruled, he gave a big feast for his leaders and officers. The soldiers from the army of Persia and Media came to the feast. The rulers and leaders of the regions in the kingdom also came." 
Esther1:4 The feast continued for 180 days. King Xerxes wanted to show everyone how rich and powerful he was. He wanted to show that he was a great king. 
Esther1:5 When this feast finished, he gave another feast for everyone who lived in Susa. It was for people who were important, and for ordinary people as well. The feast continued for seven days. It was in part of the garden of the king's palace." 
Esther1:6 The gardens had curtains made of expensive white linen and purple material. They hung from silver rings on white stone pillars. White and purple strings held the curtains. There were seats made from gold and silver. The floor had many kinds of valuable stones to make it beautiful. 
Esther1:7 People at the feast drank from gold cups. Each cup was different. The king gave plenty of his own wine to everyone to drink. 
Esther1:8 Everyone could drink as much wine as they wanted. The king told his officers to give each person what they wanted, no more and no less." 
Esther1:9 At the same time, the king's wife, Queen Vashti, gave a feast for all the women in the palace." 
Esther1:10 On the seventh day of the feast, King Xerxes was feeling happy, because he had drunk so much wine. He had seven eunuchs who served him in the palace. Their names were Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, Abagtha, Zethar and Carcas." 
Esther1:11 He told them to bring Queen Vashti to him. He said that she must wear her royal crown. He wanted to show everyone at his feast how beautiful his queen was. She was a very beautiful woman. 
Esther1:12 The eunuchs told Queen Vashti what the king had commanded. But she refused to go to him. This made the king very angry. 
Esther1:13 The king spoke to his wise advisors about what had happened. These men understood the laws and customs of Persia. When something like this happened, the king would ask them what he should do." 
Esther1:14 The seven advisors who were often with the king were Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena and Memukan. These men were the most important officers in the kingdom." 
Esther1:15 The king asked them, ‘What should we do with Queen Vashti? What does our law say about this? The eunuchs took my message to her, but she did not obey my command. And I am the king!’" 
Esther1:16 One of the advisors, Memukan, replied to the king and the other officers. He said, ‘Queen Vashti has not only done something wrong against you, the king. She has also done a wrong thing against all the officers and all the people too. That is all the men who live in your kingdom." 
Esther1:17 When other women hear about this, they will not obey their own husbands. All the women will say, “Queen Vashti did not obey her husband, King Xerxes. When he told her to come to him, she refused to do it!”" 
Esther1:18 Everywhere in Persia and Media, the wives of the king's officers will know what Queen Vashti has done. From today, they will refuse to obey their husbands. They will no longer respect their husbands, and the men will be very angry." 
Esther1:19 So we suggest this, if you agree as king. You should give a royal command. It should become one of the laws of Persia and Media, so that nobody can change it. This law must say that Vashti must never see you again. Then you should find a woman who deserves to be queen more than Vashti." 
Esther1:20 You must send this command to everyone in your great kingdom. When people know about this law, all the women will respect their husbands. They will obey them, whether they are important people or ordinary people.’" 
Esther1:21 The king and his officers liked this idea. So the king did as Memukan had said. 
Esther1:22 He sent letters to all the regions of his kingdom. The letters were in the language of each region, so that all the people could read and understand the law. The law said that every man should be the ruler of his family and he should speak the language of his people." 
Esther2:1 Some time later, King Xerxes was not feeling so angry. He thought about Vashti and what she had done. He remembered the law that he had made, that she should not be queen any more." 
Esther2:2 The king's servants who helped him in the palace said, ‘The king should send some men to look for beautiful young women for him." 
Esther2:3 The king could choose officers from every region of his kingdom to do this. They will bring all the beautiful young women here to Susa. Hegai will take care of them in the royal harem. He is the eunuch who has that job. The young women will receive special oils and perfumes to make them more beautiful. 
Esther2:4 The king may then choose the young woman who pleases him most. She could take the place of Vashti as queen.’ King Xerxes thought that this was a good idea. He did everything that the servants said. 
Esther2:5 A Jewish man called Mordecai lived in Susa. He was the son of Jair. Jair was the son of Shimei. Shimei was the son of Kish. Kish was a descendant of Benjamin. 
Esther2:6 When Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylon, he had taken Kish away from Jerusalem as a prisoner. That was the time when Nebuchadnezzar also took Jeconiah, king of Judah, away to Babylon. He also took other Jews." 
Esther2:7 Mordecai was taking care of a young cousin called Hadassah. She was also called Esther. Esther's mother and father were no longer alive. She was the daughter of Mordecai's uncle. When her parents died, Mordecai took care of her, as if she was his own daughter. Esther was very beautiful." 
Esther2:8 Esther was one of the young women that the king's officers brought to Susa. That happened because of the king's command. The beautiful young women lived in the royal harem. Hegai had the authority to take care of them. 
Esther2:9 Hegai liked Esther and he was kind to her. As soon as Esther arrived, Hegai gave her special food and oils to make her more beautiful. He chose seven female servants from the king's palace to take care of her. Then he moved Esther and her servants to the best rooms in the harem." 
Esther2:10 Esther did not tell anyone that she was a Jew. That is what Mordecai had told her. 
Esther2:11 Mordecai wanted to know what was happening to Esther. So every day he walked in the palace yard that was near the harem. He wanted to hear some news about her. 
Esther2:12 All the young women stayed in the harem for twelve months. For six months they received myrrh oil for their bodies. Then they received perfume and different kinds of oil for another six months. After that time they could each go to the king's bedroom. 
Esther2:13 When the time came for a young woman to go to the king, she could take whatever she wanted with her. She would take those things with her from the harem to the king's room." 
Esther2:14 She would go to be with the king in the evening. She stayed with him during that night. In the morning, she went to a different part of the harem, where the king's slave wives lived. One of the king's eunuchs, Shaashgaz, took care of them there. After that, the young woman would only see the king again if he was pleased with her. Then he would ask for her by name." 
Esther2:15 One evening, it was the time for Abihail's daughter, Esther, to go to the king. Abihail was Mordecai's uncle. After Abihail had died, Mordecai took care of Esther as if she was his own daughter. Everyone who saw Esther liked her. When she went to the king, she took with her only the things that Hegai had suggested." 
Esther2:16 Esther went to King Xerxes in his royal rooms in the palace. That happened in the tenth month of the year, called Tebeth. King Xerxes had ruled for seven years." 
Esther2:17 The king loved Esther more than he loved any of the other women. He was more pleased with her than all the other young women. He put the royal crown on her head. He chose Esther to be queen, instead of Vashti." 
Esther2:18 The king gave a great feast for all the leaders and officers of his kingdom. He did it to give honour to Esther. He said that there would be a holiday for people in all the regions. He also gave expensive gifts to people. 
Esther2:19 Some time later, the young women all came together again in the harem. At this time, Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate, as one of his officers." 
Esther2:20 Esther still had not told anyone that she was a Jew. Mordecai had told her that she should not tell anyone. She continued to obey Mordecai, as she had done when she lived with him as his daughter." 
Esther2:21 One day, Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate. While he was there, two of the king's eunuchs, Bigthana and Teresh, became angry with King Xerxes. They decided that they would kill the king." 
Esther2:22 Mordecai heard about this. So he told Queen Esther about it. Queen Esther told the king what Mordecai had said. 
Esther2:23 The king sent his men to see if it was true. He discovered that Mordecai had told the truth. So he said that the two eunuchs must die. The king's officers hanged them from a wooden tower until they were dead. They wrote about this event in the history book, while the king watched." 
Esther3:1 After some time, King Xerxes gave one of his officers greater authority. The officer's name was Haman. He was the son of Hammedatha, a descendant of Agag. Haman became the most important officer who served the king." 
Esther3:2 The king commanded that all the royal officers at the king's gate must bend down low down to Haman. So they all gave Haman honour when he passed them. But Mordecai refused to bend down and give honour to Haman. 
Esther3:3 The officers at the king's gate asked Mordecai, ‘Why do you not obey the king's command?’" 
Esther3:4 They warned Mordecai every day. But he would not agree to bend down low to Haman. So the officers told Haman about this. Mordecai had told them that he was a Jew. So they wanted to know if Haman would allow Mordecai to do this. 
Esther3:5 When Haman realized that Mordecai would not give him honour, he became very angry." 
Esther3:6 But he did not want to destroy only Mordecai. Haman had discovered that Mordecai was a Jew. So he decided to destroy all the Jews who lived in Xerxes' whole kingdom. 
Esther3:7 Haman asked his advisors when would be the right time to make this happen. He asked them in the first month of the year (Nisan), during Xerxes' 12th year as king. Haman's advisors threw dice to decide the right time to destroy the Jews. The dice chose the 12th month of the year (Adar). The dice were called ‘Purim’." 
Esther3:8 Then Haman said to King Xerxes, ‘There is a group of people who live in many regions of your kingdom. They have different customs to all the other people. They refuse to obey the laws of your kingdom. You should not let them live among all the other people in your kingdom." 
Esther3:9 If you agree, we will send out a command to destroy them. Then I will give 350 tons of silver to the king, so that your officers can do this work.’" 
Esther3:10 The king took his special ring from his finger and he gave it to Hammedatha's son, Haman, the Jews' great enemy." 
Esther3:11 He said to Haman, ‘Keep your money. You should do anything that you want to do with these people.’" 
Esther3:12 On the 13th day of the first month, Haman asked the king's secretaries to come to him. They wrote Haman's commands in letters to the king's rulers and officers in every region. They wrote the letters in the languages that people spoke in the different regions. Haman used the authority of King Xerxes and he marked the letters with the king's special ring." 
Esther3:13 Men delivered the letters to all the regions of the kingdom. Haman's command said that, on the 13th day of the 12th month (Adar), people should completely destroy and kill all the Jews. They should kill old people and young people, women and children. Then they should take all the Jews' valuable things for themselves." 
Esther3:14 Haman sent a copy of his command to every region, so that it would be read aloud to the people. Everyone would know what the law said, and everyone would be ready on the right day." 
Esther3:15 King Xerxes told his men to take the letters quickly to all the people. They also read the law to the people in Susa city. Then Haman and the king sat down to drink wine together. But the people in the city could not understand what was happening. 
Esther4:1 Mordecai discovered what Haman had done. He was very upset. He tore his clothes and he dressed in sackcloth and ashes. He went into the city. He cried and he wept loudly as he went. 
Esther4:2 Nobody who was wearing sackcloth could go into the yard of the palace. So Mordecai stopped at the king's gate. 
Esther4:3 Jews who lived in all the regions of Xerxes' kingdom heard the king's command. So they were very sad. They were weeping and they were fasting. Many of them lay on sackcloth and ashes. 
Esther4:4 Esther's female servants and the eunuchs who took care of her told her what Mordecai was doing. So Esther was very upset. She sent clothes for Mordecai to wear instead of the sackcloth. But Mordecai refused to wear them. 
Esther4:5 Hathach was one of the king's eunuchs who served Esther. Esther asked him to discover what was the matter with Mordecai. 
Esther4:6 So Hathach went to speak to Mordecai. Mordecai was outside the king's gate, in an open place." 
Esther4:7 Mordecai told Hathach everything that had happened. He told Hathach how much money Haman would pay to the king when people destroyed all the Jews. 
Esther4:8 Mordecai gave Hathach a copy of the law that they had read aloud to the people in Susa. He told Hathach to show the law to Esther and explain it to her. Mordecai also said that Esther must go and speak to the king. She must ask the king to let her people live. 
Esther4:9 Hathach went back into the palace. He told Esther what Mordecai had said. 
Esther4:10 Then Esther sent Hathach back to Mordecai with this message: 
Esther4:11 ‘Everybody knows the law. People cannot go to meet the king in his own part of the palace unless the king asks them to come. All the king's officers and all his people know that that is the law. Nobody can go to the king when the king has not asked to see them. Anyone who does that must die. They will only stay alive if the king holds out his gold sceptre towards them. As for me, the king has not asked me to go to him for the last 30 days.’" 
Esther4:12 When Mordecai heard this message from Esther," 
Esther4:13 he sent this answer back to her: ‘Do not think that you will be safe because you live in the king's palace. You will not escape when they kill all the other Jews. 
Esther4:14 You must speak now on behalf of all the Jewish people. If you do not, they will receive help from another place. They will become safe and free, but you and your father's family will die. I think that perhaps you have become queen so that you can help at a time like this.’" 
Esther4:15 Then Esther sent this answer to Mordecai: 
Esther4:16 ‘Tell all the Jews in Susa to meet together. Tell them to fast and to pray for me. They must not eat or drink for three days, during the day and the night. My female servants and I will also fast. After three days, I will go and speak to the king. I know that this is against the king's law. But if I must die, I agree to die.’" 
Esther4:17 Then Mordecai left the king's gate. He did everything that Esther had told him to do. 
Esther5:1 After the Jews had fasted for three days, Esther put on her royal clothes. She went to King Xerxes' part of the palace. She stood in the yard outside his rooms. The king was sitting on his royal throne inside the palace. He could see out through the entrance of the room." 
Esther5:2 The king saw Esther as she stood outside in the yard. He was pleased to see her. He held out his gold sceptre towards her. Esther came near to him and she touched the top of the sceptre. 
Esther5:3 The king asked her, ‘What is your trouble, Queen Esther? How can I help you? I will do for you whatever you want. I will even give you half of my kingdom!’" 
Esther5:4 Esther replied, ‘If the king agrees, I would like you to do this. I would like the king and Haman to come to a special meal that I have prepared for you.’" 
Esther5:5 The king said to his servants, ‘Bring Haman here quickly. Then we can do what Esther wants.’ The king and Haman went to the meal that Esther had prepared." 
Esther5:6 While they were drinking wine, the king asked Esther, ‘What do you want? I will give you whatever you want. What do you want me to do for you? Even if you want half of my kingdom, I will give it to you.’" 
Esther5:7 Esther replied, ‘This is what I want." 
Esther5:8 If the king is pleased with me, and if you agree, please do what I ask. I would like the king and Haman to come again tomorrow. Come to another meal that I will prepare for you. Then I will tell you what I want, as you have asked me to do.’" 
Esther5:9 When Haman went from Queen Esther's meal that day, he was very happy. But then he saw Mordecai at the king's gate. When Haman passed him, Mordecai did not get up. He did not show that he respected Haman in any way. So Haman became very angry with Mordecai." 
Esther5:10 Haman did not show that he was angry at that time. He went home. Then Haman told his friends and Zeresh, his wife, to meet with him." 
Esther5:11 Haman told them how rich he was, and how many sons he had. He told them of all the things that the king had done to give him great honour. He told them that he was now more important than all the king's other rulers and officers." 
Esther5:12 Haman said to them, ‘Queen Esther asked me to go with the king to a special meal that she had prepared. We were the only people who ate with her. Now the queen has asked me to go with the king to another meal tomorrow." 
Esther5:13 But even all these things do not make me happy. I am angry when I see that Jewish man, Mordecai. He is sitting at the king's gate.’" 
Esther5:14 Haman's wife and all his friends said to him, ‘This will make you happy. Tell your men to build a wooden tower that is 22 metres high. In the morning, tell the king to hang Mordecai on the tower to kill him. Then you will enjoy Queen Esther's special meal.’ Haman liked their idea very much. So he told his men to build the tall tower." 
Esther6:1 That night the king could not sleep. He asked a servant to bring the kingdom's history book. He asked the servant to read the book to him. 
Esther6:2 The history book included a report of how two of the king's eunuchs wanted to kill King Xerxes. Their names were Bigthana and Teresh. The report said that Mordecai had told the king about this. 
Esther6:3 When the king heard this, he asked his servant, ‘When Mordecai saved my life, what great honour did we give him?’ The king's servants replied, ‘We did not do anything for him.’" 
Esther6:4 The king said, ‘Who is now in the palace yard?’ Haman had just arrived at the palace. His men had built the wooden tower. Now he wanted to ask the king to hang Mordecai on it to kill him." 
Esther6:5 The king's servants said to the king, ‘Haman is in the palace yard.’ The king said, ‘Bring him here to me.’" 
Esther6:6 Haman came in to the king's room. The king asked him, ‘If I want to give great honour to a man, what should we do for that man?’ Haman thought to himself, ‘I am sure that I am that man. The king must want to give me honour.’" 
Esther6:7 So Haman replied to the king, ‘This is what you should do for that man, if you want to give him honour." 
Esther6:8 Your servants should bring some royal clothes that you yourself have worn. They should bring a horse that you yourself have ridden on as king. They should put a crown on the horse's head to show that it belongs to you. 
Esther6:9 Then give the clothes and the horse to one of your royal officers. Tell the officer to put the king's clothes on the man that you want to give honour to. Then the officer must put the man on the king's horse. He must lead him through all the streets of the city. As he goes, the officer must shout, “This is what the king does for a man that he wants to give honour to!” ’" 
Esther6:10 The king said to Haman, ‘That is a good idea! Go quickly! Get my clothes and my horse. Go and do everything that you have suggested. Do it for the Jewish man, Mordecai, who sits at the king's gate. Be careful to do for him everything that you have said.’" 
Esther6:11 So Haman took the king's clothes and the king's horse to Mordecai. He put the king's clothes on Mordecai. Then he led Mordecai on the horse through all the streets of the city. Haman went in front and he shouted, ‘Look! This is what the king does for a man that he wants to give honour to!’" 
Esther6:12 After this, Mordecai returned to sit at the king's gate. But Haman hurried back home. He covered his face because he was ashamed and upset." 
Esther6:13 He told his wife, Zeresh, and his friends about everything that had happened to him. Then his advisors, as well as his wife, said to him, ‘It seems that you have already lost some of your power to Mordecai. If Mordecai really is Jewish, you will never win against him. He will destroy you completely.’" 
Esther6:14 While they were speaking, the king's eunuchs arrived. Very quickly they took Haman to the special meal that Esther had prepared." 
Esther7:1 King Xerxes and Haman went to the meal that Queen Esther had prepared. 
Esther7:2 This was the second day that they ate a special meal together. While they were drinking wine, the king said to Esther, ‘Queen Esther, what do you want me to do for you? I will give you whatever you want. Even if you want half of my kingdom, I will give it to you.’" 
Esther7:3 Queen Esther replied, ‘Sir, I hope that you are pleased with me. If you agree, I ask you to save my life. Also save the lives of my people. That is what I ask you to do." 
Esther7:4 Someone has sold me and my people as if we are animals. Now they will kill us and completely destroy us all. If we had been sold to become slaves, I would not have spoken to the king. It would not have been important enough for that.’" 
Esther7:5 Then King Xerxes asked Queen Esther, ‘Who is this man? Who would even think of anything like that? Where is he?’" 
Esther7:6 Esther replied, ‘The enemy of our people is this wicked man, Haman!’ Then Haman became very afraid as he sat there with the king and the queen." 
Esther7:7 The king was very angry and he stood up. He left his wine and he went into the palace garden. Haman realized that the king wanted to destroy him. So he stayed with Queen Esther and he asked her to save his life. 
Esther7:8 Queen Esther was lying down on a bed. Haman threw himself down beside her. At that moment, the king returned from the garden. The king shouted, ‘What is this man doing? He even attacks the queen when she is with me in my palace!’ While the king was still saying this, his servants covered Haman's head." 
Esther7:9 One of the king's eunuchs, Harbona, said, ‘There is a wooden tower near Haman's home. It is 22 metres high. His men built it so that he could hang Mordecai on it. Mordecai is the man who saved the king's life.’ The king said, ‘Hang Haman on the tower until he is dead.’" 
Esther7:10 So they took Haman and they hanged him on the tower until he was dead. It was the same tower that Haman had built to kill Mordecai on. After that, the king did not feel so angry." 
Esther8:1 That day, King Xerxes took everything that had belonged to Haman, the enemy of the Jews. He gave it all to Queen Esther. Esther told the king that Mordecai was her cousin. So Mordecai came to meet the king." 
Esther8:2 The king had taken back his special ring from Haman. Now he took it off his own finger and he gave it to Mordecai. And Esther gave Mordecai authority over all the things that had belonged to Haman. 
Esther8:3 Then Esther went again to speak to the king. She threw herself down at his feet and she wept. She wanted him to stop Haman's evil idea to kill all the Jews. 
Esther8:4 The king held out his gold sceptre towards Esther. So she stood up to speak to the king. 
Esther8:5 Esther said to the king, ‘I hope that I have pleased the king. If you agree, and if you are pleased with me, please make another law. Stop the command that Haman, the descendant of Agag, wrote. He sent letters to all the regions of your kingdom, because he wanted to destroy all the Jewish people." 
Esther8:6 I cannot let this evil thing happen to my relatives. I have to do something to stop it.’ 
Esther8:7 King Xerxes replied to Queen Esther and to Mordecai, ‘You are right! I have already punished Haman with death because he wanted to destroy the Jews. I have also given all of his things to Esther." 
Esther8:8 Now you must use my authority to write another law. Write a law that seems right to you. Write a law that will save your people. Then mark the letters with my special ring. Any letter that has my name and the mark of my ring on it has the king's authority. Nobody can ever change it.’ 
Esther8:9 They called the king's secretaries to come and write the new law. They did that on the 23rd day of the third month (Sivan). Mordecai told them what to write. They sent the letters to the Jews, the rulers and the officers in all the regions of the kingdom. There were 127 regions, from India as far as Ethiopia. They wrote the letters in the languages that people spoke in each region. They also wrote to the Jews in their own language. Everyone would know what the new law said." 
Esther8:10 Mordecai used King Xerxes' authority to write the letters. He made a mark on the letters with the king's special ring. Men who rode on the king's fastest horses quickly took the letters everywhere in the kingdom. 
Esther8:11 The king's new law said that the Jewish people could join together to keep themselves safe. Jews who lived in every city could fight against anyone who attacked them. If an army of any kind attacked them, the Jews could kill and destroy them completely, as well as their women and children. They could take away their enemies' things for themselves." 
Esther8:12 The law said that the Jews in all the regions of the kingdom could do this on one day. That day was the 13th day of the 12th month (Adar). 
Esther8:13 A copy of the law would go to every region of the kingdom, so that everyone would know what the law said. Then the Jews would be ready on the right day to punish their enemies." 
Esther8:14 The king's officers rode quickly on the royal horses to take the letters to every region. His officers also read the law aloud to the people in Susa city. 
Esther8:15 Then Mordecai left the king's palace. He was wearing royal clothes that were blue and white. He had a large gold crown on his head. He wore a beautiful coat made from purple linen. The people in Susa shouted with joy because of the new law. 
Esther8:16 All the Jews were very happy. Everyone respected them and gave them honour. 
Esther8:17 When the new law reached every region and every city, the Jews became very happy. The other people who lived there were now afraid of the Jews. Because of that, many people said that they themselves had become Jews." 
Esther9:1 The 13th day of the 12th month (Adar) was the day when the enemies of the Jews had hoped to attack them. But now the king's new law said that the Jews could fight to keep themselves safe on that day. So the Jews won against their enemies. 
Esther9:2 In all the cities in each region of the kingdom where the Jews lived, they joined together. They attacked anyone who tried to hurt them. Nobody could fight against the Jews because all the people were very afraid of them." 
Esther9:3 All the king's officers and the rulers and leaders of each region also helped the Jews. They did that because they were afraid of Mordecai's power. 
Esther9:4 He was now a very important officer in the king's palace. News about him reached all the regions as he became more and more powerful. 
Esther9:5 So when the day arrived, the Jews could do what they wanted to their enemies. They used their swords to attack them and to kill them." 
Esther9:6 In Susa, the Jews killed 500 men." 
Esther9:7 They also killed Parshandatha, Dalphon, Aspatha," 
Esther9:8 Poratha, Adalia, Aridatha," 
Esther9:9 Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai and Vaizatha." 
Esther9:10 Those men were the ten sons of Haman, the enemy of the Jews. But the Jews did not take any of the things that belonged to the people that they killed." 
Esther9:11 On the same day, the king heard how many people the Jews had killed in Susa." 
Esther9:12 Then the king said to Queen Esther, ‘In Susa the Jews have killed 500 men and also the ten sons of Haman. So I think that they have killed even more of their enemies in the other regions of my kingdom! Now, what else do you want? If you ask me, I will do anything that you still want me to do.’" 
Esther9:13 Esther replied, ‘If the king agrees, please let the Jews who live in Susa do the same thing tomorrow. Let your new law continue for one more day. Also, let them hang the dead bodies of Haman's ten sons from the wooden tower.’" 
Esther9:14 The king agreed and he commanded that this should happen. He made another law so that the Jews in Susa could fight again. They also put the dead bodies of Haman's ten sons on the tower. 
Esther9:15 On the 14th day of the month called Adar, the Jews in Susa all met together again. That day they killed 300 more men in Susa. But they did not take their enemies' things for themselves." 
Esther9:16 In the other regions of the kingdom, the Jews came together on the 13th day of Adar. They did that to protect themselves against their enemies. They killed 75,000 of their enemies. But they did not take their enemies' things for themselves. Then, on the 14th day of Adar, the Jews in the regions rested. They enjoyed feasts and they were very happy." 
Esther9:17  
Esther9:18 But the Jews in Susa did not rest until the 15th day of the month. That was because they killed their enemies on both the 13th day and the 14th day. On the 15th day, they ate feasts and they were very happy." 
Esther9:19 That is why the Jews who live in towns and villages in the country have a holiday on the 14th day of Adar. On that day, they have feasts and they give gifts to each other, because they are happy." 
Esther9:20 Mordecai wrote down all these events. He sent letters to all the Jews who were living in all the regions of King Xerxes' kingdom. 
Esther9:21 He told them that they should have a holiday on the 14th and 15th days of Adar every year. 
Esther9:22 They should do that to remember the time when they became safe from their enemies. That was the month when their trouble finished and they could be happy again. They should enjoy a feast together. They should send gifts of food to each other to show their joy. They should also give gifts to poor people. 
Esther9:23 The Jews agreed to do everything that Mordecai had written in the letters. They had a festival every year to remember what had happened. 
Esther9:24 They remembered what Hammedatha's son, Haman, the descendant of Agag, had done. He had been the enemy of the Jews and he had tried to destroy them all. He had thrown dice, called Purim, to choose the day when he would attack them and kill them." 
Esther9:25 But Esther had told the king what Haman was doing. Then the king had stopped the evil thing that Haman wanted to do against the Jews. The king had written a command to say that Haman should die. The same thing that Haman wanted to do to the Jews should happen to him instead. The bodies of Haman and his sons were hung on the wooden tower that his men had built. 
Esther9:26 So the Jews call the days of their festival ‘Purim’. That was the name of the dice that Haman used. They did this because of what Mordecai wrote in his letter. They wanted to remember everything that had happened to them. 
Esther9:27 They made a rule for all the Jews, their descendants, and for any other people who came to join them. The rule said that they must all have a holiday on those two days every year. They must do what Mordecai had written in his letter to them." 
Esther9:28 From that time, every Jew must remember to keep the days of Purim as a holiday. Every Jewish family must continue to do this. They must enjoy a holiday in all the cities and in all the regions, wherever they lived. And their descendants must continue to do it every year, to remember what happened." 
Esther9:29 Then Abihail's daughter, Queen Esther, and Mordecai wrote another letter. Esther used her authority to agree with what Mordecai had written about the feast of Purim." 
Esther9:30 So they sent letters to all the Jews who lived in the 127 regions of Xerxes' kingdom. The message was to help the Jews to live safely in peace. 
Esther9:31 It told them how to have the days of Purim as a holiday at the right time each year. This was a rule that had the authority of the Jewish man, Mordecai, and of Queen Esther. The message also said that the Jews and their descendants should remember the sad times, and they should fast." 
Esther9:32 Queen Esther's command made these rules about the Festival of Purim. The palace secretaries wrote them down in a book. 
Esther10:1 King Xerxes caused everyone who lived in his kingdom to pay taxes. It included those who lived far away, on the coast of the sea." 
Esther10:2 Everything that King Xerxes did was written down in ‘The history book of the kings of Media and Persia’. The book tells about all the great things that King Xerxes did with his power and authority. It also tells how the king gave more authority to Mordecai, who became very great." 
Esther10:3 The Jewish man, Mordecai, was the most important Jew in the whole kingdom. Only King Xerxes himself had more authority than Mordecai. The other Jews respected Mordecai because he worked hard to help them. He asked the king to make sure that all his people could live safely." 
Job1:1 There was a man who lived in a place called Uz. His name was Job. He was a good and honest man. He was afraid to make God angry. He refused to do evil things. 
Job1:2 Job had seven sons and three daughters. 
Job1:3 He had 7,000 sheep and 3,000 camels. He had 500 pairs of oxen and 500 donkeys. He also had many servants. He was the richest person in the east part of the world." 
Job1:4 Each of Job's sons would give parties for each other in their homes. They sent messages to their three sisters to come and eat the feast with them. 
Job1:5 After each party, Job would ask his children to come and visit him. He wanted to make them clean again if they were guilty of bad things. He thought, ‘Perhaps they have done something that is bad. Perhaps they have thought bad things against God.’ So he would get up early in the morning. He would offer a burnt offering as a sacrifice for each of his children. Job always did this after each party that his children had." 
Job1:6 One day, the angels came to meet with the Lord in heaven. Satan also came and he stood there with them." 
Job1:7 The Lord said to Satan, ‘Where have you come from?’ Satan replied, ‘I have been travelling all over the earth. I have been watching the things that happen there.’" 
Job1:8 Then the Lord said to Satan, ‘You have seen Job, who is my servant. What do you think about him? There is no one on earth that is like him. He is a good and honest man. He is afraid to make me angry. He refuses to do evil things.’" 
Job1:9 Satan answered the Lord, ‘There is a very good reason why Job obeys you." 
Job1:10 You do not let any bad things happen to him. You keep him, his family and all his things safe. You have given him success with everything that he does. His many farm animals are everywhere!" 
Job1:11 You should take away from him all the things that he has. Then he will certainly curse you very strongly.’ 
Job1:12 So the Lord said to Satan, ‘I agree to give you power over all the things that belong to Job. But you must do nothing to hurt Job himself.’ After that, Satan went away." 
Job1:13 One day, Job's sons and daughters were at a party in the home of his oldest son." 
Job1:14 A servant brought a message to Job. He said, ‘We were using your oxen to plough the fields. Your donkeys were eating grass beside them." 
Job1:15 Some men from Sheba suddenly came and they attacked us. They took away all your oxen and your donkeys. They also killed all your other servants. I was the only one who escaped. I ran here to tell you what has happened.’ 
Job1:16 That servant was still speaking, when another servant arrived. He said to Job, ‘God has sent lightning down from the sky. It has killed your sheep and your servants. I was the only one who escaped. I ran here to tell you what has happened.’" 
Job1:17 Before that servant had finished speaking, a third servant arrived. He said to Job, ‘Some robbers from Chaldea suddenly attacked us. They took away all your camels and they killed your servants. I was the only one who escaped. I ran here to tell you what has happened.’" 
Job1:18 That servant was still speaking, when a fourth servant arrived. He said to Job, ‘Your children were eating a feast at a party in the home of your oldest son." 
Job1:19 Suddenly there was a strong storm that came from the desert. The wind destroyed the house where your children were. The house fell on them and it killed them. I was the only one who escaped. I ran here to tell you what has happened.’ 
Job1:20 When Job heard this news he was very upset. He tore his clothes and he cut off all his hair. Then he bent down low on the ground to worship God. 
Job1:21 He said, ‘When I was born, I had nothing. When I die, I will take nothing with me. The Lord has given me all the things that I have. The Lord may choose to take those things away. I will continue to praise the name of the Lord!’" 
Job1:22 Even after all these things had happened, Job still did not do anything bad. He did not say that God had done something wrong to him." 
Job2:1 Another time, the angels came again to meet with the Lord. Satan also came with them to meet the Lord." 
Job2:2 The Lord said to Satan, ‘Where have you come from?’ Satan replied, ‘I have been travelling all over the earth. I have been watching the things that happen there.’" 
Job2:3 Then the Lord said to Satan, ‘You have seen Job, who is my servant. What do you think about him? There is no one on earth who is like him. He is a good and honest man. He is afraid to make me angry. He refuses to do evil things. Because of what you said, I allowed you to attack him. But he did not deserve that. He has continued to do what is right.’" 
Job2:4 Satan answered the Lord, ‘A man will always take care of his own body. He would do anything to save his own life." 
Job2:5 So now cause Job to have great pain in his own body. Then he will certainly curse you very strongly.’ 
Job2:6 So the Lord said to Satan, ‘I agree to give you power over Job himself. But you must not cause his death.’" 
Job2:7 So Satan went away. He caused Job to have boils all over his body. They hurt him everywhere, from the bottom of his feet to the top of his head." 
Job2:8 Job was very upset and he sat down among some ashes. He used a piece of a broken pot to remove the bad bits of skin. 
Job2:9 His wife said to him, ‘You cannot continue to trust God! Instead, you should curse God and then die.’" 
Job2:10 Job replied, ‘Do not talk like a fool! We take the good things that God gives us. So we should not be surprised if he sends us trouble as well.’ In all his trouble, Job never said any wrong things against God." 
Job2:11 Three of Job's friends heard news about his trouble. One friend was called Eliphaz, who came from Teman. The second friend was called Bildad, who came from Shuah. The third friend was called Zophar, who came from Naamah. They came from their own homes to meet together. They wanted to show Job that they were sorry about his trouble. They went to visit him to comfort him." 
Job2:12 When they could see Job from far away, they did not easily recognize him. They began to weep very loudly. They were so upset that they tore their clothes. They threw dust into the air and on their heads." 
Job2:13 For a whole week, they sat on the ground near Job. They knew that his pain was very bad. So all that time, they did not say anything to him." 
Job3:1 Finally, Job decided to speak. He cursed the day when he was born." 
Job3:2 This is what Job said: 
Job3:3 ‘Forget the day of my birth. Forget the night when a son was born to my parents. 
Job3:4 That day should be completely dark, with no light to shine on it! God in heaven above should not even think about it." 
Job3:5 That day should remain in a dark shadow. Clouds should cover it so that everywhere is black. 
Job3:6 Remove that night completely! It should no longer be a date among the days of the year. Remove that day from the months of the year. 
Job3:7 Do not let women become pregnant on that night. Nobody should be happy! 
Job3:8 People who know how to curse days should curse that day. They should wake up Leviathan, the monster from the sea, to attack it." 
Job3:9 The stars of early morning should be dark on that day. Do not let the sun shine at dawn, so that there is no end to the dark night." 
Job3:10 I curse that day because it allowed me to be born. It brought me into a life of trouble. 
Job3:11 It would have been better if I had died at birth. I should have been born dead. 
Job3:12 Instead, my mother held me on her knees. I drank from her breasts." 
Job3:13 If I had died at birth, I would now be resting in peace." 
Job3:14 I would be resting with kings and rulers. They lived in beautiful houses which are now heaps of stones. 
Job3:15 I would be with princes who once were very rich. Their palaces were full of gold and silver. 
Job3:16 My parents should have buried me, like a child that is born dead. I would never have seen the light of day." 
Job3:17 After death, wicked people can no longer cause any trouble. People who have become tired can rest." 
Job3:18 Even prisoners can enjoy a time of peace. No guards are there to shout at them. 
Job3:19 Great people and ordinary people are all there together. Slaves have no master that they must obey. 
Job3:20 I am suffering very much. Why does God let me wake up each day? I am very upset, so why does God continue to let me live?" 
Job3:21 People like me only want to die, but death does not come. They would rather die than find valuable gold." 
Job3:22 When their life finally finishes, they are very happy. They are happy to go into their graves." 
Job3:23 So why do I continue to live? God has stopped me moving forward in life. I cannot see which way to go. 
Job3:24 I am crying instead of eating. My tears pour out like a river of water. 
Job3:25 The things that frighten me most have happened to me. 
Job3:26 Because of all the trouble that has happened to me, I cannot rest. I have no peace in my mind.’" 
Job4:1 Eliphaz, who came from Teman, decided to speak. He said this to Job:" 
Job4:2 ‘Please be patient and listen to what I say. Allow me to speak, because I cannot remain quiet." 
Job4:3 Listen! You have taught many people. You have helped weak people to be strong. 
Job4:4 With your words, you have saved people from danger. You have helped people who are in trouble to be brave." 
Job4:5 But now you are the person who has trouble. You yourself are not patient. Trouble has come to you and you feel afraid. 
Job4:6 But you respect God's authority, so you should trust him. You live in an honest way, so you should still hope for better things." 
Job4:7 Think about this: People who are not guilty of sin do not suddenly die. God does not destroy people who do good things. 
Job4:8 I will tell you what I have seen. Trouble comes to people who do wicked things. They receive the punishment that they deserve. 
Job4:9 God destroys them with his breath. His anger is like a storm that blows them away. 
Job4:10 Lions are strong animals that roar loudly. But if God breaks a lion's teeth, it cannot eat." 
Job4:11 Even the strongest lion will die if it has nothing to eat. The young lions will run away from their mother to find food. 
Job4:12 One night I heard a quiet voice. Someone spoke to me and told me a secret. 
Job4:13 I was asleep, but my dreams woke me." 
Job4:14 I was very afraid. Even my bones were shaking. 
Job4:15 A wind was blowing over my face. The hair on my skin stood up. 
Job4:16 Something stopped and it stood in front of me. I could not recognize its shape. Then I heard a quiet voice say: 
Job4:17 “No human is righteous when he stands in front of God. He cannot be pure in front of his Maker. 
Job4:18 God knows that even his angels make mistakes. They may do foolish things. 
Job4:19 God used clay to make bodies for us who are humans. We came from the dust of the earth. We are as weak as moths. 
Job4:20 We are alive in the morning, and when evening comes we may be dead. People disappear for ever. No one even knows about it." 
Job4:21 They no longer have their valuable things. They suddenly die and they are still not wise.” ’ 
Job5:1 ‘Shout for help, Job! But no one will answer you. None of the angels will come to help you." 
Job5:2 Foolish people may be angry and jealous. That is what kills them. 
Job5:3 I have seen fools who seemed to be successful. But suddenly a curse destroyed their homes. 
Job5:4 Their children are never truly safe. The judge says that they are guilty, and nobody saves them from punishment." 
Job5:5 Hungry people take their crops to eat. They even take them from among the weeds. Thirsty people take the fool's money for themselves. 
Job5:6 Problems do not grow like plants in our fields. Trouble does not come up from the ground. 
Job5:7 But trouble comes to everyone, as soon as they are born. It is as certain as smoke that rises from a fire." 
Job5:8 I suggest that you ask God to help you. You should tell him about your problems. 
Job5:9 He does great things that nobody can understand. He does more miracles than anyone can count. 
Job5:10 He gives rain for the earth. He sends water for the fields. 
Job5:11 He gives honour to humble people. When people are suffering, he puts them in a safe place." 
Job5:12 He stops the ideas of clever people. They cannot do what they want to do. 
Job5:13 When wise people try to do clever things, he causes those things to give them trouble. He quickly stops their clever ideas." 
Job5:14 In the middle of the day, it becomes dark for those people. At midday, they see no better than blind people." 
Job5:15 He saves poor people when wicked people attack them. He rescues weak people from the power of strong people. 
Job5:16 So poor people can hope for justice. Wicked people have to be quiet. 
Job5:17 If Almighty God warns you to do what is right, he has blessed you. So do not be upset when he decides to do that." 
Job5:18 He may cause you to have pain, but he will make you well again. He may hurt you, but he will also give you health." 
Job5:19 If trouble comes to you six times, he will rescue you. No bad thing will hurt you, as often as it happens." 
Job5:20 If there is a time of famine, he will keep you alive. He will protect you from death in a time of war." 
Job5:21 If people insult you, he will take care of you. When people attack you, you will not be afraid." 
Job5:22 In times of danger and famine, you will be brave. You will not be afraid of wild animals." 
Job5:23 The stones in your fields will not give you trouble. The wild animals will not attack you. 
Job5:24 You will know that your home is strong and safe. When you check all your land, you will see that all your animals are safe." 
Job5:25 You will know that your children will be very many. You will have as many descendants as the grass that grows in the ground. 
Job5:26 You will not die until you are old. You will grow with strength until you die, like crops that grow until the time of harvest." 
Job5:27 We have thought carefully about these things. We know that they are true. So listen to what we say. Accept it and it will be good for you.’ 
Job6:1 Then Job replied: 
Job6:2 ‘I am so upset that nobody could measure it! My problems are too many to weigh! 
Job6:3 They are heavier than all the sand on the shore of the sea. That is why I did not think carefully before I spoke. 
Job6:4 Almighty God has shot his arrows into me. Their poison is now deep inside me. God has sent me many troubles that make me afraid. 
Job6:5 A wild donkey does not complain when it has grass to eat. An ox is quiet when it has its food. 
Job6:6 You cannot enjoy food that has no salt in it. The white part of an egg is not nice to eat on its own. 
Job6:7 I cannot eat that kind of food. It makes me ill. 
Job6:8 I want God to give me what I ask him for. I want him to answer my prayer. 
Job6:9 I would like him to destroy me. He should kill me himself. 
Job6:10 Then I would have peace. I would be happy. I have received much cruel pain. But I have always obeyed the words of the holy God. 
Job6:11 I am not strong enough to hope for my life to become any better. There is no reason for me to continue my life. 
Job6:12 I am not as strong as stones. My body is not strong like bronze. 
Job6:13 I no longer have strength to help myself. There is nowhere that I can go to get help. 
Job6:14 When a man has no hope, his friends should be kind to him. They should help him, even if he no longer respects God Almighty." 
Job6:15 But you, my friends, have not helped me when I need you. You are like streams that quickly become dry. There is no water when you need it." 
Job6:16 In the spring, ice and deep snow covers them." 
Job6:17 But in the hot summer time, all the water disappears. Those streams become completely dry." 
Job6:18 Travellers leave the road to look for water. They find no water to drink and they die in the desert. 
Job6:19 Travellers from Tema look everywhere for these streams. Traders from Sheba hope to find water. 
Job6:20 They are very upset, because they expected to find water. But when they arrive, they are disappointed." 
Job6:21 My friends, you have become like those streams. You see my great problem, and you are afraid." 
Job6:22 I have never said to you, “Give me something to help me. Please use some of your money to rescue me.”" 
Job6:23 I have not asked you to save me from the power of my enemy. Or to pay cruel people to let me go free. 
Job6:24 Teach me the truth, and I will listen carefully. Explain to me the mistakes that I have made." 
Job6:25 True words may give pain to the person who listens to them. But the things that you say against me mean nothing. 
Job6:26 You are warning me because of what I say. I have no hope and you think that my words are empty. 
Job6:27 You would play a game to win a child who has no family. You would even sell your friends to become rich yourselves. 
Job6:28 But now, please look at me. I will not tell you any lies." 
Job6:29 Change what you are saying about me. Do not say that I am guilty. Think again, for I am truly a good person." 
Job6:30 I have not spoken any lies. I know what is right and what is wrong. 
Job7:1 People have to work very hard on this earth. They have to work every day, like servants." 
Job7:2 A servant waits for the end of the day so that he can rest. A worker waits for his master to pay him. 
Job7:3 But there is nothing for me to wait for. I wait for many months and nothing happens. Every night, I am always sad." 
Job7:4 When I lie down at night to sleep, I think, “How soon will the night end?” But the night continues and I cannot sleep. Finally, dawn comes." 
Job7:5 There are worms all over my body. All of my skin is painful. There are dirty sores all over it. 
Job7:6 My life is passing very fast. Each day passes too quickly to see it! The days of my life will finish, and I cannot hope for anything to get better." 
Job7:7 Remember, God, that my life is as short as a breath. I know that I will never be happy again." 
Job7:8 People who can see me now will not see me any more. You will look for me, but I will not be there." 
Job7:9 Clouds disappear and you never see them again. That is like people who die and go into their graves. They do not come back again. 
Job7:10 They do not come back to live in their homes. People forget about them. 
Job7:11 So I must continue to speak. I will tell you how upset I am. I am angry because of what has happened to me. So I must complain. 
Job7:12 Why do you have to watch me, God, like a guard? Do you think that I am a dangerous monster from the sea?" 
Job7:13 When I lie down to sleep, I hope that my pain will be less." 
Job7:14 But even then you give me dreams that frighten me. I have visions which make me very afraid. 
Job7:15 I would like someone to stop me breathing! Death would be better than life. 
Job7:16 My life is useless. I do not want to live for ever. My life is only a short breath. So let me be alone. 
Job7:17 Why do you think that people are important? Why do you watch us so carefully? 
Job7:18 You never leave us alone. You test us every moment of every day. 
Job7:19 You never look the other way. You never leave me alone, even for a moment." 
Job7:20 You carefully watch what people do. Even if I have done something wrong, it should not cause any trouble for you. So why do you choose to punish me?" 
Job7:21 You should agree to forgive my sins. You should say that I am not guilty. I will soon die and I will go into my grave. Then you will carefully look for me, but I will not be there.’" 
Job8:1 Job's friend Bildad, who came from Shuah, decided to speak. He said this to Job:" 
Job8:2 ‘You should not continue to talk like this. Your words are like a wind that blows strongly. 
Job8:3 Surely you know that God is fair. The Almighty God never changes right things into wrong things. 
Job8:4 Your children did things that were wrong. That is why God punished them. 
Job8:5 But you should pray to Almighty God. You should ask him to help you. 
Job8:6 If you are honest and live in the right way, God will do something to help you. He will give you a family again that will bring you honour." 
Job8:7 You will be successful in the future, with more riches than you had before." 
Job8:8 Think about the people who lived before us. Study the things that our ancestors learned. 
Job8:9 We have not lived for very long, so we do not know very much. Our lives are like shadows that quickly disappear." 
Job8:10 But the people who lived before us can teach you. They can tell you the things that they have learned. 
Job8:11 Some plants only grow tall in wet ground. Reeds only grow well where there is water. 
Job8:12 If the water is no longer there, they will quickly die. They will die before they are ready for people to cut them. They become useless more quickly than grass." 
Job8:13 People who turn away from God are like those plants. Their hope quickly disappears. 
Job8:14 They trust in useless things to help them. Those things are as weak as a spider's web. 
Job8:15 If they expect something like that to help them, it will fall down and leave them. If they take hold of it, it will not keep them safe." 
Job8:16 People who turn away from God are like weeds. When there is plenty of water and the sun shines on them, they grow all over the garden." 
Job8:17 Their roots grow around a heap of stones. They have a strong home among the rocks. 
Job8:18 But finally, someone pulls those weeds out of the ground. When that happens, nobody knows that the weeds were ever there." 
Job8:19 People who are like weeds only have that kind of joy. When they disappear, other weeds grow in their place." 
Job8:20 Listen! God never turns away from a man who is not guilty. Nor will he ever help wicked people. 
Job8:21 He will surely make you happy again. You will be able to laugh and shout with joy. 
Job8:22 People who hate you will be ashamed. Wicked people will have nowhere to live.’ 
Job9:1 Then Job replied. This is what he said: 
Job9:2 ‘The things that you have said are true. But nobody can stand in front of God and say that he is completely good. 
Job9:3 It is not possible to argue with God. God can ask 1,000 questions that we cannot answer." 
Job9:4 God is very wise and he is very powerful. It is impossible to argue against him and win. 
Job9:5 He has the power to move mountains suddenly. When he is angry he can knock them down. 
Job9:6 He shakes the earth, to move it from its proper place. The foundations of the earth shake!" 
Job9:7 He may command the sun not to shine during the day. He may stop the stars shining at night. 
Job9:8 God alone put the whole sky in its place. He marches over the waves of the sea. 
Job9:9 He put the groups of stars in their places. He made the Bear, Orion and the Pleiades. He put the groups of stars in the southern sky." 
Job9:10 He does great things that we cannot understand. He does more wonderful things than we can count. 
Job9:11 When God passes in front of me, I do not see him. If he moves further away, I do not see where he has gone." 
Job9:12 If God decides to take something, nobody can stop him. Nobody can ask him, “What are you doing?”" 
Job9:13 If God is angry, he will not stop. He destroys Rahab and the other monsters of the sea." 
Job9:14 So I can never give an answer to God. There are no words that I can use to argue with him. 
Job9:15 Even if I am completely right, I cannot answer him. He is my judge. I can only ask him to be kind to me." 
Job9:16 He might agree to meet with me in court. But I do not believe that he would listen to me. 
Job9:17 He would attack me with a strong storm. He would hurt me even more, for no reason." 
Job9:18 He would not allow me to breathe quietly. Instead, he would make me very upset." 
Job9:19 If I tried to fight God, he is much stronger than I am. And if I ask for justice, who can bring God to court?" 
Job9:20 I am right. I have not done anything that is wrong. But my words would say that I am guilty. 
Job9:21 I have not done anything that is wrong. But it does not matter what happens to me. My life is not important to me. 
Job9:22 The same thing happens to good people and to wicked people. So I say, “God destroys people who are not guilty as well as those who are guilty.”" 
Job9:23 When disease comes, people may die suddenly. God laughs at good people who suffer like that." 
Job9:24 A wicked man may have power to rule a nation. Then God stops the judges from being fair. It must be God who does that. Who else could it be? 
Job9:25 The days of my life are passing very quickly, like a fast runner. None of my days makes me happy." 
Job9:26 My days go past like a fast boat on a river. They move quickly like an eagle when it flies down to catch its food. 
Job9:27 I may try to be happy and to smile. I may try to forget about my troubles. 
Job9:28 Even then, I will be afraid of all my pain. God, I know that you think I am guilty." 
Job9:29 So, if I am guilty, it is useless to do anything about it." 
Job9:30 I might wash myself with pure water. I might clean my hands with soap. 
Job9:31 But then God would throw me down into a dirty hole. Even my own clothes would be ashamed of me! 
Job9:32 God is not a human, as I am. So I cannot answer him. We cannot argue with each other in court." 
Job9:33 There is nobody who can decide which of us is right. Nobody has authority to judge both of us. 
Job9:34 Nobody can stop God from punishing me. If that were possible, I would not be afraid any more." 
Job9:35 I would speak to God and I would not be afraid. But now I cannot do that. 
Job10:1 I do not want to live any longer. I must continue to complain. I am very upset and I have to speak about it. 
Job10:2 This is what I will say to God: “Do not say that I am guilty. Tell me what bad things you think I have done. 
Job10:3 Your own hands created me. So you should not be cruel to me. It is not right. Instead, you are kind to wicked people. You help them to do the bad things that they want to do." 
Job10:4 Do you see things as people see them? Are your eyes only like human eyes? 
Job10:5 Is your life like a human life? It is surely not as short as that! 
Job10:6 So why do you want to discover all my sins? Why do you hurry to do that? 
Job10:7 You know that I am not guilty. But you also know that no one can save me from your power. 
Job10:8 Your own hands have made me who I am. But now you are completely destroying me. 
Job10:9 Remember that you made me, like someone who uses clay to make things. Will you now make me become dust again?" 
Job10:10 You poured me like milk into my mother. There you put my body together, like milk that becomes cheese." 
Job10:11 You joined my bones together, and you covered them with skin." 
Job10:12 You gave me life and you loved me faithfully. You took care of me and you kept me safe. 
Job10:13 But now I know what you have been thinking. I have discovered your secret. 
Job10:14 You were watching me to see if I did wrong things. Then you would refuse to forgive me. 
Job10:15 If I am guilty of sin, that brings terrible trouble to me. But if I am righteous, I still feel ashamed. Whatever I do, I have nothing but shame and my life is full of trouble." 
Job10:16 If I try to be brave, you chase me like a hungry lion. You show your power to hurt me." 
Job10:17 You find more reasons to attack me. You become more and more angry with me. You attack me with even greater power. 
Job10:18 Why did you let me be born? I should have died before anyone saw me. 
Job10:19 It would have been better if I had not been born. Or they should have put me in my grave, immediately after my birth." 
Job10:20 I will only live for a few more days. So leave me alone! Then I may be happy for a moment. 
Job10:21 I will soon go to the dark place where there is no hope. I will never come back from that place. 
Job10:22 I will go to that very dark place where there are only shadows. In that place, it is still dark when the light shines. ” ’" 
Job11:1 Job's friend Zophar, who came from Naamah, decided to speak. He said this to Job:" 
Job11:2 ‘Someone must answer all these words that you have spoken. You have talked a lot, but that does not mean that you are right." 
Job11:3 Your proud words will not cause other people to say nothing. We must make you ashamed when you laugh at us. 
Job11:4 You have said, “The things that I teach are true. God knows that I am a good man.”" 
Job11:5 So God himself should answer you. He should tell you what he thinks. 
Job11:6 He would show you the secret of wisdom. True wisdom is not easy to understand, but you must understand this: God is punishing you less than you deserve." 
Job11:7 You cannot discover everything about God. You cannot know how powerful he is. 
Job11:8 His power goes higher than the sky. You cannot do anything about that. His power goes deeper than the place of death. You cannot know all about that. 
Job11:9 The truth about God is wider than the whole earth. It goes far beyond the sea. 
Job11:10 God may catch you and put you in prison. He may accuse you in a court. Nobody can stop him doing that. 
Job11:11 God knows the people who are not honest. He sees the evil things that they do. 
Job11:12 Wild donkeys never give birth to human children. And foolish people never become wise! 
Job11:13 As for you, Job, you should be faithful to God. Raise your hands and pray to God." 
Job11:14 If you want to do an evil thing, stop yourself from doing it. Do not let people do wrong things in your home." 
Job11:15 Do what I say. Then you will not be ashamed any more. Instead, you will be strong. You will not be afraid." 
Job11:16 You will forget about your trouble. It will be like water that has disappeared. You will not remember it. 
Job11:17 You will have a happy life that is brighter than the sun at noon. Even if trouble makes it dark, it will still seem like a bright morning." 
Job11:18 You will be safe as you trust God. God will protect you. You will be able to rest safely. 
Job11:19 When you lie down to sleep, you will not be afraid of anyone. Many people will ask you to help them." 
Job11:20 But wicked people will not find any help. They cannot escape from their troubles. They can only hope to die.’ 
Job12:1 Then Job replied. This is what he said: 
Job12:2 ‘You people think that you know everything. You think that there will be no wisdom after you die. 
Job12:3 But I understand things as well as you. You are no better than I am. Everyone knows the things that you have been saying. 
Job12:4 I am a person who prayed to God and he answered me. But my friends now laugh at me. I have always lived completely in the right way. But still my friends laugh at me. 
Job12:5 Some people never have any troubles. They think that people who suffer are fools. If people are in trouble, they knock them down!" 
Job12:6 But robbers seem to live in peace. They cause God to be angry but they think that they are safe. They trust their own strength as their god. 
Job12:7 Ask the animals and they will teach you. The birds in the sky would tell you the truth. 
Job12:8 Speak to the earth and it will teach you. The fish in the sea would tell you what is right. 
Job12:9 Any of them could tell you that the Lord has done this. 
Job12:10 He has authority over the life of all the animals. He gives breath to all people so that they can live. 
Job12:11 We use our mouths to taste food. We use our ears to test what we hear. 
Job12:12 Old people are often wise. People who have lived for a long time understand things better. 
Job12:13 God is wise and he is also powerful. He understands things and he gives good advice. 
Job12:14 If God destroys something, nobody can repair it. If God puts someone in prison, that person cannot escape." 
Job12:15 If God stops the rain, the land becomes dry. If he sends lots of rain, there are floods." 
Job12:16 God has strength and wisdom. He has power over people who tell lies, and the people that they deceive." 
Job12:17 He causes clever people to become ashamed. He causes leaders to do foolish things. 
Job12:18 He takes authority away from kings. He dresses them like slaves. 
Job12:19 He causes priests to become ashamed. He removes the power of important people. 
Job12:20 He stops faithful men from giving advice. He removes the wisdom of old men. 
Job12:21 He causes rulers to be ashamed. He destroys the power of strong men. 
Job12:22 He shows people things that have been secrets. He shines light into dark places. 
Job12:23 He can make nations become great. He can also destroy them. He can make their land become bigger. He can also send their people away to other places. 
Job12:24 He stops the world's leaders from understanding things properly. He sends them to travel through empty deserts. 
Job12:25 They try to walk in the dark, without any light. He causes them to walk like drunk men." 
Job13:1 I have seen all these things with my own eyes. I have heard everything that you have said. I have understood it. 
Job13:2 I know as much as you do. You are no better than I am. 
Job13:3 But I want to speak to the Almighty God. I need to show him that I am right. 
Job13:4 What you say about me is only lies. You would be useless as doctors. 
Job13:5 It would be better if you said nothing. That would be a wise thing for you to do. 
Job13:6 Listen now to what I have to say. Listen carefully to the words that I speak. 
Job13:7 You think that you can tell lies to speak on behalf of God! Your lies are not helping God. 
Job13:8 You are trying to win the argument for God. But you are not being honest when you do that. 
Job13:9 If God asks you questions, would he find that you speak the truth? Or would you try to deceive him, as you deceive other people?" 
Job13:10 When you speak on God's behalf, you may think that your lies are a secret. But God will still punish you." 
Job13:11 His great power will frighten you. You will be very afraid of him. 
Job13:12 Your wise teaching is worth no more than ashes. Your arguments are weak and useless. 
Job13:13 So be quiet now and let me speak. Then we will see what happens to me. 
Job13:14 I am ready for my life to be in danger. I must take that risk. 
Job13:15 Even if God kills me, I will still trust him. I will tell him why I am not guilty." 
Job13:16 I am brave enough to stand in front of God. No wicked person would be able to do that. So it shows that I am not guilty. 
Job13:17 Listen carefully to my words. Hear what I have to say. 
Job13:18 I know what I want to say. I am ready to explain why I am not guilty. 
Job13:19 Nobody can show that I have done wrong things. If anyone can do that, I will be quiet. I will be ready to die." 
Job13:20 God, please do two things that will help me. If you do those things, I will no longer hide from you." 
Job13:21 Please stop punishing me. And stop causing me to be so afraid of you. 
Job13:22 Tell me to come and stand in front of you. Then I will answer you. Or allow me to speak first. Then you will reply to me. 
Job13:23 Tell me how many wrong things I have done. Show me what my sins are. 
Job13:24 Why do you hide yourself from me? Why do you think that I am your enemy? 
Job13:25 I am as weak as a leaf that the wind can blow away, but you still want to frighten me. I am as useless as chaff, but you still attack me." 
Job13:26 You write down things to accuse me. You punish me for the sins I did when I was young. 
Job13:27 You tie my feet with chains. You watch me carefully wherever I go. You put marks on my feet. 
Job13:28 So my life is slowly disappearing. It is like a coat that moths are eating. 
Job14:1 Everyone that a woman gives birth to lives only for a short time. The days of his life are full of trouble. 
Job14:2 He is like a flower that grows and then it soon dies. His life quickly disappears like a shadow. 
Job14:3 I am only a human like that, so why do you watch me so carefully? Why do you want to bring me into a court to judge me?" 
Job14:4 People are not clean and pure. Nobody can change them to become pure. 
Job14:5 You have decided how long people should live. You control the number of months that each person will live. Nobody can live any longer than that. 
Job14:6 So do not watch us! Leave us alone! We must work for the time that you have decided. Please leave us to work in peace. 
Job14:7 If someone cuts down a tree, the tree may not die. New branches may grow from it." 
Job14:8 Its roots in the ground may be old. The part of the tree that remains may be nearly dead. 
Job14:9 But if only a little water comes near to it, it will start to grow again. It will make new branches, like a young plant." 
Job14:10 But when people lose their strength and they die, that is the end. After they die, where do they go?" 
Job14:11 When the water disappears from a lake or a river, they become dry." 
Job14:12 It is the same with people when they die. They will never rise to live again. As long as the sky remains above the earth, they will continue to sleep in death." 
Job14:13 Please hide me in the place where dead people go! Hide me there until you are no longer angry. Decide how long I must be there, and then remember me again!" 
Job14:14 If a man dies, will he live again? If I knew that, I would suffer patiently. I would wait until my troubles have finished." 
Job14:15 You would call me and I would answer you. You would want to see me again, because your own hands created me." 
Job14:16 You would watch me carefully, but you would not make a note of my sins." 
Job14:17 You would forgive me for my sins. You would hide them away. 
Job14:18 But mountains fall down and they break into pieces, Rocks fall down from their places." 
Job14:19 Stones become sand when water pours over them. Floods wash away soil. In the same way, you remove hope from a person's life." 
Job14:20 Finally, you bring his life to an end. He leaves this world. You change his face in death and you send him away." 
Job14:21 If his sons become famous, he does not know about it. If they become ashamed, he does not know that either." 
Job14:22 A dead person thinks only about himself. He feels his own pain and he is very sad.’ 
Job15:1 Then Eliphaz, the man from Teman, replied to Job. This is what he said:" 
Job15:2 ‘If you were wise, you would not answer us with such silly ideas. The words that come out from inside you are only a hot wind!" 
Job15:3 No wise man would argue in such a useless way. The things that you say do not mean anything. 
Job15:4 You show that you do not respect God. You turn other people away from him. 
Job15:5 It is your sin that causes you to speak like that. You try to say clever things that will deceive people. 
Job15:6 I do not need to show that you are guilty. Your own words show that you are wrong. 
Job15:7 You were not the first human to be born. You were not alive when God made the hills. 
Job15:8 You do not know God's secret plans. You are not the only wise person in the world. 
Job15:9 You do not know any more than we know. We understand as much as you do. 
Job15:10 The old men agree with us. They are older and wiser even than your father. 
Job15:11 You think that God's kind words are not important. But they should be enough for you. 
Job15:12 You have allowed your thoughts to confuse you. We can see in your eyes that you are very angry. 
Job15:13 Why are you so angry against God? You should not say such wicked things. 
Job15:14 No one who is human can be truly pure and righteous. 
Job15:15 God does not even trust his own angels. He knows that they make mistakes. 
Job15:16 So he certainly will not trust people. People are wicked and cannot think true thoughts. They like to do evil things, as if they are drinking water!" 
Job15:17 So listen to me. I will explain something to you. I will tell you what I have seen. 
Job15:18 These are things that wise men have taught me. They did not hide the truth. They learned these things from their ancestors. 
Job15:19 They were the people who received the land. No foreigners were there to deceive them. 
Job15:20 They knew this: A wicked person will have trouble all his life. Anyone who is cruel will suffer every year that he lives. 
Job15:21 He will hear things that frighten him. He may think that he is safe, but robbers will attack him." 
Job15:22 He is afraid to go out in the dark. He thinks that someone may kill him. 
Job15:23 The wicked person walks about to look for food. He says, “Where is it?” He knows that he cannot escape from trouble." 
Job15:24 He is afraid and confused. Trouble is ready to attack him, like a king with his army." 
Job15:25 That happens to the person who turns against God. He thinks that he is greater than Almighty God. 
Job15:26 He is proud enough to attack God. He holds a big shield as he runs to attack God! 
Job15:27 He eats too much and his whole body is very fat. 
Job15:28 He lives in a town that is empty. No one else lives in the houses there. The buildings will soon fall down and they will become heaps of stones. 
Job15:29 He will not be rich. He will lose his valuable things. Everything that he has will disappear. 
Job15:30 When it becomes dark, he will not be able to escape. He will be like a tree that fire has burned. God's breath will blow him away!" 
Job15:31 He may trust in useless things to save him, but he is deceiving himself. Any help that he receives will also be useless." 
Job15:32 Before he is old, his life will end. Like a tree that makes no leaves, he will have no success in life." 
Job15:33 He will be like a vine that loses its grapes. They fall off before they are ready to eat. He will be like an olive tree that loses its flowers, so that no olives grow on it." 
Job15:34 People who turn away from God are like that. They have no family to live after them. If they use the money from bribes to build their homes, fire will destroy those homes." 
Job15:35 They make plans to cause trouble, so that evil things happen. Lies are what come out from inside them.’" 
Job16:1 Then Job replied. This is what he said: 
Job16:2 ‘I have heard all these things before. You, my friends, are not making my troubles any better. You are making them worse!" 
Job16:3 Please stop speaking useless words. Why do you talk to me like that? 
Job16:4 If you were suffering like I am, I could say the same things to you. I could speak for a long time about the wrong things that you have done. I could shake my head and laugh at you." 
Job16:5 But, instead, I would help you to be strong. I would say things to comfort you." 
Job16:6 But now, if I speak, my pain does not become any better. If I stop speaking, my pain continues to be there." 
Job16:7 God, you have made me very weak. You have destroyed my family." 
Job16:8 You have taken hold of me. Because of my troubles, people think that I am guilty. Because my body is so thin, people think that I have done bad things." 
Job16:9 God attacks me and he punishes me because he is angry. He shows his anger like a wild animal. He has become my enemy. 
Job16:10 People insult me and they laugh at me. They hit me on my face. They all join together to attack me. 
Job16:11 God has allowed evil men to take hold of me. He has put me under the power of wicked men. 
Job16:12 I was living in peace, but then God destroyed me. He took hold of my neck and he shook me to pieces. He decided to shoot his arrows at me." 
Job16:13 His arrows come from all around me. They go deep into my body and my blood pours out on the ground. But God still does not feel sorry for me. 
Job16:14 He attacks me again and again. He rushes to attack me like a strong fighter. 
Job16:15 I have used sackcloth to make my clothes. I am no longer proud of my strength, and I sit in the dust." 
Job16:16 I have cried so much that my face is red. There are dark circles around my eyes. 
Job16:17 But I have not been cruel. And when I pray, I speak honestly to God." 
Job16:18 The earth should not hide my blood! People should remember how I have suffered. They should not forget that I asked for justice. 
Job16:19 But even now, I know that I have a friend in heaven. He knows that I am not guilty. He speaks on my behalf." 
Job16:20 My friends have turned against me. I cry with many tears as I pray to God. 
Job16:21 I need someone to speak to God on my behalf. He should ask God not to punish me, as someone might try to help his friends." 
Job16:22 I only have a few more years to live. I will die and I will never again return to this earth. 
Job17:1 I am very weak and I will soon die. Then my friends will bury me in my grave. 
Job17:2 All around me, people are laughing at me. I have to watch them as they insult me." 
Job17:3 God, please help me to become free again. Nobody else will pay the price to do that for me." 
Job17:4 You have stopped my friends from thinking properly. So do not allow them to win the argument. 
Job17:5 People may turn against their friends to get things for themselves. If they do that, their children should become blind." 
Job17:6 You have caused people to insult me, as that proverb says. People even spit at my face." 
Job17:7 I have cried so much that my eyes have become weak. My body is so thin that I am like a shadow. 
Job17:8 Good people are upset when they see what is happening to me. They are angry with those who turn away from you. 
Job17:9 Righteous people continue to do things that are right. People who do good things become stronger. 
Job17:10 But you, my friends, come here! Try again to help me, all of you! I will not find a wise man among you." 
Job17:11 I will not live for many more days. I will never do the things that I wanted to do. 
Job17:12 My friends say, “It is day,” when it is still night. They do not know the difference between light and dark." 
Job17:13 The only home that I hope to go to is my grave. I will lie down to sleep there in the dark. 
Job17:14 I will say to the grave, “You are my father.” I will say to the worms that eat me, “Hello, my mother. Hello, my sister.”" 
Job17:15 I can hope for nothing that is better than that. No one can find anything better for me. 
Job17:16 When I go to the world of dead people, all my hope will have finished. Everything that I had hoped for will lie with me in the dust.’" 
Job18:1 Then Bildad, the man from Shuah, replied. This is what he said:" 
Job18:2 ‘You should not continue to talk like that! Stop and think carefully. Then we can talk. 
Job18:3 You should not think that we are as foolish as cows. 
Job18:4 You are so angry that you are hurting yourself. You will never change the way that things happen in the world. Your anger will not cause the earth to shake, or any rocks to move from their places." 
Job18:5 The light of a wicked person's life will stop shining. His fire will no longer burn brightly. 
Job18:6 His tent will be dark. The lamp that gives him light will stop burning. 
Job18:7 Once he was strong but now his legs are weak. His own ideas cause him to fall down. 
Job18:8 He does not know where he is going and he walks into a dangerous trap. 
Job18:9 A trap catches his foot and he cannot move. 
Job18:10 Someone has hidden a rope on the ground. It catches him as he walks along. 
Job18:11 Everywhere a wicked person goes, things frighten him. He cannot escape from them." 
Job18:12 Now he is hungry and his strength has disappeared. Terrible trouble is ready to take hold of him whenever it has the chance. 
Job18:13 A bad disease eats his skin. It causes his arms and his legs to become useless and he dies. 
Job18:14 Then he has to leave his tent where he had lived safely. He will have to meet the terrible king of death. 
Job18:15 Other people will live in his tent. They have used sulphur to burn all his things. 
Job18:16 He is like a tree whose roots have become dry, and its branches have fallen off." 
Job18:17 Nobody remembers that he ever lived. They have forgotten his name. 
Job18:18 The wicked person has had to leave this world. He has gone from a place where there is light to a place where it is dark. 
Job18:19 He has no children or grandchildren. He has no family to live in his home. 
Job18:20 All people are very upset when they see what has happened to him. Wherever they live, they are very upset." 
Job18:21 I know that this is what happens to the homes of evil people. It happens to people who turn away from God.’ 
Job19:1 Then Job replied. This is what he said: 
Job19:2 ‘Please stop speaking to me like that! Your words continue to make me suffer. 
Job19:3 You have insulted me many, many times. You should be ashamed to attack me like that." 
Job19:4 I might have done things that are wrong. But even if that might be true, those wrong things have not hurt you." 
Job19:5 You think that you are better people than I am. Because I have all these troubles, you say that I must be guilty." 
Job19:6 But you should realize that God has caused all my troubles. He is the one who has caught me in his trap. 
Job19:7 If I shout, “Help me, I am in trouble!” nobody answers me. I shout to get help, but nobody comes to give me justice." 
Job19:8 God has stopped me so that I cannot move forward. He has made my path dark so that I cannot see the way to go. 
Job19:9 He has taken away my honour so that nobody respects me. 
Job19:10 Everywhere that I go, God is there to attack me. He is ready to destroy me. He has taken away my hope, as if he has dug a tree out of the ground." 
Job19:11 He is very angry against me. He attacks me as if I am his enemy. 
Job19:12 His whole army is coming to attack me! They build a road so that they can reach me. They are all around me. 
Job19:13 God has caused my brothers to stay away from me. My friends do not want to meet me. 
Job19:14 My relatives have left me. My best friends have forgotten me. 
Job19:15 Visitors who stayed in my house now think that I am a stranger. Even my servants think that I am a foreigner. 
Job19:16 I tell my servant to come to me, but he does not come. I ask him to help me, but he does nothing." 
Job19:17 My wife moves away from the smell of my breath. My brothers stay away from me. 
Job19:18 Even young children insult me. When I stand up, they laugh at me." 
Job19:19 My best friends hate me. People that I love have turned against me. 
Job19:20 My body is now only skin and bones. I still breathe but I am only just alive. 
Job19:21 Please be kind to me, my friends. God has caused me to suffer, so please be kind to me." 
Job19:22 Do not punish me as God is punishing me. You have already caused me to suffer enough. 
Job19:23 Someone should write down the words that I speak. My words should be written in a book. 
Job19:24 If someone uses an iron tool to write them on a rock, that would be good. Then they would never disappear." 
Job19:25 As for me, I know that my Redeemer lives. I know that, in the end, he will stand on the earth." 
Job19:26 Illness may completely destroy my skin. But after that happens, I know that in this body I will see God." 
Job19:27 I will see him for myself, with my own eyes. It makes me feel weak inside as I think about it!" 
Job19:28 My friends, you should not think of ways to make me suffer even more. You say that I have caused my own trouble." 
Job19:29 Instead, you yourselves should be afraid of punishment! When God is angry with someone, he punishes that person. Then you will know that he is the one who judges people.’" 
Job20:1 Then Zophar replied to Job. This is what he said: 
Job20:2 ‘I am very upset by the things that you have said. So I must say more to answer you. 
Job20:3 You have said things that insult me. But now I know how to reply to you. 
Job20:4 I am sure that you know this fact. It has been true from long ago, since people first lived on the earth." 
Job20:5 You know that a wicked person is only happy for a short time. His joy continues only for a moment. 
Job20:6 He may think that he is more important than other people. He may be proud of the honour that he receives. 
Job20:7 But he will disappear for ever, like dung that people throw away. His friends will ask, “Where is he?”" 
Job20:8 He will disappear like a dream that quickly goes away. Nobody can find him any more. 
Job20:9 People who knew him will never see him again. His family will no longer recognize him. 
Job20:10 His children will have to give things back to poor people. Those are the valuable things that he took from them. 
Job20:11 He still had the strength of a young man. But his strength will die with him when he lies in his grave. 
Job20:12 He enjoys the wicked things that he does. They are like something sweet in his mouth. 
Job20:13 He continues to enjoy wicked things, like the taste of sweet food that he keeps in his mouth." 
Job20:14 But those things will become poison that hurts him, like bitter food that goes into his stomach." 
Job20:15 Like a person who is sick and loses the food from his stomach, God will cause the wicked person to lose all his riches." 
Job20:16 He will drink the poison of snakes. A dangerous snake will bite him and it will kill him. 
Job20:17 He will never enjoy the good things that the earth provides. He will not enjoy the honey and milk which pours out like rivers of water. 
Job20:18 He will have to give back everything that he owned. He will not enjoy the things that he has worked for. 
Job20:19 This will happen because he has been cruel to poor people. He has refused to help them. He has taken houses for himself that do not belong to him. 
Job20:20 He will always want to have more things for himself. He takes anything that he wants to have. 
Job20:21 Now nothing remains for him to take. So his riches will come to an end. 
Job20:22 When he has everything that he wants, trouble suddenly comes to him." 
Job20:23 When he is filling himself with good food, God will punish him. God will be very angry with him. God will attack the wicked person so that he suffers." 
Job20:24 He may escape from a soldier who has an iron sword. But then a soldier will shoot a bronze arrow into him. 
Job20:25 He pulls the arrow out of his back. His blood makes its sharp point shine brightly. He is very afraid. 
Job20:26 All his riches disappear in the dark. God will send a fire to destroy him. It will destroy all his things that remain. 
Job20:27 The heavens will show that he is guilty. People on earth will speak against him. 
Job20:28 A flood will destroy his house and everything that he has. That will happen on the day when God punishes people because he is angry with them. 
Job20:29 That is how God punishes wicked people. God has decided to punish them as they deserve.’ 
Job21:1 Then Job replied. This is what he said: 
Job21:2 ‘Listen carefully to the things that I am saying. You can only help me if you do that. 
Job21:3 Be patient with me so that I can speak. After you have heard what I say, you may choose to laugh at me." 
Job21:4 It is not people that I want to argue with. So I have good reason to be upset. 
Job21:5 When you look at me, you should be upset. You should cover your mouth with your hand." 
Job21:6 When I think about what has happened to me, it makes me very afraid. My body shakes with fear." 
Job21:7 Why do wicked people continue to live for a long time? The older they become, the more power they have." 
Job21:8 They see their own children grow and become strong. Their children also have strong families. 
Job21:9 They are safe in their homes and they are not afraid. God does not punish them. 
Job21:10 Their cows give birth safely to many calves. 
Job21:11 Their children run and play. They jump like young lambs. 
Job21:12 They enjoy the music of tambourines and harps. They sing with joy to the sound of flutes. 
Job21:13 Wicked people have plenty of money through their whole lives. Even when they die, they do not suffer." 
Job21:14 They say to God, “Leave us alone! We do not want to know about your ways." 
Job21:15 We do not need to serve the Almighty God. If we pray to him, there is nothing he can do to help us.”" 
Job21:16 They think that they have made themselves rich. But it is not true. So I do not listen to the things that wicked people say. 
Job21:17 It seems that wicked people enjoy a long life. They do not often have many troubles. When God is angry with them, he does not cause them to suffer." 
Job21:18 He does not blow them away, like the wind blows dry grass. They do not disappear like chaff that a storm blows away." 
Job21:19 You may say, “God will punish a wicked person's children with the punishment that he deserves.” But I say that God should punish the wicked person himself. Then he will realize that he is wicked." 
Job21:20 Wicked people should receive their own punishment. They should see that Almighty God is angry with them. 
Job21:21 After wicked people have died, it does not matter to them if their family suffers." 
Job21:22 No one can teach God what he should do. He himself judges the most powerful rulers. 
Job21:23 One person has good health all his life. Even when he is ready to die, he still lives a safe and happy life." 
Job21:24 He eats good food and his body is strong. 
Job21:25 But another person is sad all his life, until he dies. No good things ever happen to him." 
Job21:26 But they all die one day and their bodies lie under the ground. Worms cover their bodies, whoever they are." 
Job21:27 I know what you are thinking. You want to show that I am guilty. 
Job21:28 You say, “You see that the rich person no longer has a house. Wicked people no longer have homes to live in.”" 
Job21:29 But you should ask people who travel to different places. You should listen to the things that they say. 
Job21:30 They would tell you that wicked people do not always suffer. When trouble comes, they continue to be safe. When God is angry with people, wicked people escape punishment." 
Job21:31 No one speaks against them to say that they are guilty. No one punishes them for the bad things that they have done. 
Job21:32 When a wicked person dies, people bury him with honour. Guards watch over his grave." 
Job21:33 A big crowd of people come to his funeral. They make a heap of earth over his body, in the valley where he rests happily." 
Job21:34 So your useless words do not comfort me. Your answers are all lies!’ 
Job22:1 Then Eliphaz, the man from Teman, replied. This is what he said:" 
Job22:2 ‘Nothing that a man can do will help God. Even a wise man cannot help God. 
Job22:3 If you are a righteous person, it does nothing to help Almighty God. If you live a completely good life, it still does not help him." 
Job22:4 It is not because you respect and obey God that he punishes you. It is not because you are a good person that he accuses you. 
Job22:5 No! It is because you are a very wicked person. You have done too many evil things for anyone to count them. That is why he is punishing you. 
Job22:6 You took things from your friends when you lent money to them. You had no reason to do that. You even took away the only clothes that poor people were wearing. 
Job22:7 When you met people who were weak and tired, you did not give them any water to drink. You refused to feed hungry people." 
Job22:8 You were a powerful man, with land that belonged to you. People respected you. Your land gave you a good life." 
Job22:9 But you refused to help widows. You were cruel to children who have no family. 
Job22:10 That is why you have so many troubles. That is why you shake with fear. 
Job22:11 It seems to you that you are in the dark and you cannot see. You feel as if a flood of deep water covers you. 
Job22:12 God lives high above us in heaven. Look up at the stars and see how high they are! 
Job22:13 So you say, “God does not know about us. He cannot judge us, because darkness hides us from him." 
Job22:14 Thick clouds cover him, so that he does not see us. He moves around high above the sky.”" 
Job22:15 Job, you must not continue to turn against God. That is the way that evil people lived long ago." 
Job22:16 Those people died before they should have done. A great flood of water took them away. They had no safe place to stand. 
Job22:17 They said to God, “Leave us alone!” They thought that Almighty God could not hurt them." 
Job22:18 But it was God who gave them many good things to enjoy. So I cannot accept the ideas of wicked people. 
Job22:19 God punishes wicked people. When righteous people see that happen, they are happy. Good people then laugh at wicked people." 
Job22:20 They say, “God has destroyed our enemies. He has burned all their valuable things in a fire.”" 
Job22:21 So, Job, agree to accept God's ways. Have peace in your mind about him. Then you will again have good success." 
Job22:22 Listen to his teaching. Remember carefully what he tells you. 
Job22:23 Turn back to the Almighty God, so that you become strong again. Stop all the evil things that happen in your house." 
Job22:24 Throw away your gold things. Throw your pure gold among the rocks in the streams. 
Job22:25 Then the Almighty God will be like gold for you. He will be like your valuable silver. 
Job22:26 You will be happy that Almighty God is your friend. You will look up to him to help you. 
Job22:27 You will pray to him, and he will answer you. You will do the things that you have promised to him." 
Job22:28 You will be able to do everything that you decide to do. Light from God will show you the right way to go. 
Job22:29 You will pray for God to help people who are in trouble. God will save those people who are humble. 
Job22:30 God will rescue even people who are guilty. Because you do what is right, God will save those people.’" 
Job23:1 Then Job replied. This is what he said: 
Job23:2 ‘I continue to complain against God because I am still angry today. God continues to punish me even when I cry in pain. 
Job23:3 I would like to know where to find him. Then I could go to the place where he lives. 
Job23:4 I would tell him why I am not guilty. I would say many things to explain this to him. 
Job23:5 Then I would know how he would answer me. I would understand what he would say to me. 
Job23:6 Would God use his great power to argue against me? No! He would listen carefully to me. 
Job23:7 Honest people can explain things to him. So he would judge me in a fair way. He would let me go free. 
Job23:8 I look for God in the east, but he is not there. I do not find him in the west either." 
Job23:9 When he does his work in the north, I do not see him. When he moves to the south, I still cannot find him anywhere." 
Job23:10 But he knows the way that I live. When he has finished testing me, he will see that I am pure. I will be as pure as gold." 
Job23:11 I have always lived in the way that God showed me. I have obeyed him faithfully. I have not turned away from his teaching. 
Job23:12 I have been careful to obey his commands. His words are more important to me than my food. 
Job23:13 But he is always true to himself. Nobody can change him. Whatever he wants to do, he does." 
Job23:14 He will do to me everything that he has decided to do. He has plans to do many things like this. 
Job23:15 Because of that, I am afraid of him. When I think about all these things, I am very afraid." 
Job23:16 God has made me become weak with fear. Almighty God has frightened me. 
Job23:17 Because of all my troubles, I seem to be in a very dark place. The darkness seems to cover me. But I will not be afraid to speak." 
Job24:1 Why has Almighty God not yet decided the time when he will judge wicked people? People who serve him faithfully continue to wait for justice. 
Job24:2 Wicked men move the stones that show the edge of their neighbour's land. They take their neighbour's land and his sheep for themselves. 
Job24:3 They take away a donkey that belongs to a child who has no family. They take an ox away from a widow, when they lend money to her." 
Job24:4 They stop poor people from receiving justice. Poor people have to run away from wicked people and hide. 
Job24:5 Poor people have to look for food to eat, like wild donkeys in the desert. They have to find food for their children to eat." 
Job24:6 They find grain in the fields of other people. They pick grapes that remain in the vineyards of wicked people. 
Job24:7 They have no clothes to wear during the cold nights. They sleep without anything to cover themselves. 
Job24:8 The rain that falls in the mountains makes them very wet. So they hide among the rocks where they try to keep dry. 
Job24:9 When wicked people lend money to poor people, they even take a child whose father has died away from his mother." 
Job24:10 Poor people have to go out with no clothes to wear. They are hungry while they carry the crops of other people. 
Job24:11 They squeeze oil from olives that grow in the fields of other people. They also make wine from other people's grapes. But the poor people continue to be thirsty. 
Job24:12 In the cities, people who are dying cry with pain. They call for help, but God does not punish the people who have hurt them." 
Job24:13 Some people refuse to live in the light. They do not understand it. They do not go along the good way that it shows to them. 
Job24:14 Murderers rob people when it is still dark. They kill poor, weak people during the night." 
Job24:15 Adulterers wait until it is becoming dark. They think that no one will see them. They cover their faces so that no one will recognize them. 
Job24:16 Robbers go into people's homes in the dark to take away their things. But they stay inside during the day. They never go out in the light. 
Job24:17 They all like to do evil things at night, rather than in the light of morning. They are not afraid of things that happen in the dark, as other people are." 
Job24:18 You may say, “ Floods of water carry away wicked people. God curses the land that belongs to them. Nobody goes to work in their vineyards." 
Job24:19 Snow soon disappears when the weather is very hot or very dry. In the same way, death quickly takes away people who do bad things." 
Job24:20 Their mothers soon forget them. Worms eat their bodies. No one remembers those wicked people. They are like dead trees that people have cut down. 
Job24:21 Those wicked people are cruel to women who have no children. They are not kind to widows. 
Job24:22 But God uses his strength to remove powerful people. When he attacks wicked people, their lives are in his hands." 
Job24:23 God allows them to feel safe. But he is always watching everything that they do. 
Job24:24 Wicked people may have success for a short time, but suddenly they disappear! Like everyone else, they fall to the ground. They become like crops that people cut down at harvest time.”" 
Job24:25 What I have said is true. Nobody can say that I am telling lies. You cannot think that my words are useless.’ 
Job25:1 Then Bildad, the man from Shuah, replied. This is what he said:" 
Job25:2 ‘God rules everything and we should be afraid of his great power. In heaven above he causes there to be peace. 
Job25:3 The number of angels in his armies are too many to count. His light shines over everyone. 
Job25:4 No human is righteous when he stands in front of God. He cannot be pure. 
Job25:5 When God looks at the moon and the stars, they do not seem to be pure and bright." 
Job25:6 So when God looks at us humans, we do not seem important to him. To him, we are as useless as worms.’" 
Job26:1 Then Job replied. This is what he said: 
Job26:2 ‘Do not think that you have helped me, a weak and helpless man. Nothing that you have said makes me feel stronger." 
Job26:3 What good advice have you given me to make me wise? You have not really shown me how clever you are! 
Job26:4 Someone must have helped you to say these wise words. Who has put all these thoughts in your minds? 
Job26:5 Dead people shake with fear. They are under the deep waters. 
Job26:6 God sees everything that happens in the place of dead people. Nothing can hide that terrible place from him. 
Job26:7 He puts the skies in their place in the north, so that they cover empty space. He hangs the earth in the skies and it stays there." 
Job26:8 He fills the clouds with water. They become heavy but they do not break. 
Job26:9 When the moon is big and round, he hides it. He causes clouds to cover it." 
Job26:10 He marks the border between the sea and the sky. It is the place where the night finishes and the day begins. 
Job26:11 When God is angry, he shouts at the pillars under the sky. When they hear his command, they shake with fear." 
Job26:12 He used his power to control the sea. He used his wisdom to destroy Rahab, the great sea monster." 
Job26:13 He used his breath to make the sky become bright. With his hand he cut the great sea snake as it ran away. 
Job26:14 These are only a few of the things that God does. We only know about a few small things. If he used all his great power, we could never understand.’" 
Job27:1 Job continued to speak. This is what he said: 
Job27:2 ‘ Almighty God has not been fair to me. He has caused my life to be very sad. As surely as he lives, I promise this:" 
Job27:3 As long as God's Spirit gives me life," 
Job27:4 I will never speak any lies. I will always be honest. 
Job27:5 I will never agree that you, my three friends, are right. Until the day of my death, I will continue to say what I know is right." 
Job27:6 I will never agree that I am guilty. During all of my life, my thoughts do not say that I am doing anything wrong." 
Job27:7 I pray that God will punish my enemies as he punishes all wicked people. They do bad things to me, so they deserve punishment." 
Job27:8 When God chooses to remove wicked people, they cannot hope for any good thing. God will cause them to die." 
Job27:9 When they are in trouble and they pray for help, God will not listen to them." 
Job27:10 People like that are not happy that Almighty God is their friend. They do not like to pray to him all the time. 
Job27:11 I will teach you about the power of Almighty God. I will explain to you what he is thinking. 
Job27:12 You yourselves have all seen what God has done. So you should stop saying all these useless things! 
Job27:13 I will tell you what Almighty God does to wicked people. He punishes cruel people as they deserve. 
Job27:14 Wicked people may have many children, but they will die in war. Their children will never have enough food to eat." 
Job27:15 Disease will kill any children who continue to live. When wicked men die, their widows will not weep." 
Job27:16 Wicked people may have lots of money. They may have silver like heaps of sand. They may have more clothes than they could ever wear. 
Job27:17 But one day righteous people will wear those clothes. Honest people will share the silver among themselves. 
Job27:18 The houses that wicked people build are not strong. They are as weak as a spider's web, or a shepherd's hut." 
Job27:19 Their riches quickly disappear. They are rich when they go to sleep, but poor when they wake up." 
Job27:20 Troubles come to them like a flood of water, and they are very afraid. A storm comes in the night to carry them away." 
Job27:21 The east wind picks them up and takes them far away. It removes them from their homes. 
Job27:22 It is a strong wind that hits wicked people and it never stops. It continues to beat them as they try to escape. 
Job27:23 The cruel wind laughs at them as they run away in fear.’ 
Job28:1 ‘If people want to find silver, they can dig it out of the ground. They also have places where they can make gold pure." 
Job28:2 They know how to take iron from under the ground. They can also use heat to get copper from rocks. 
Job28:3 People take light into dark places under the ground. They look carefully for valuable metals. 
Job28:4 They dig deep holes in the ground far away from places where people live. Other people do not know about those places. People hang on ropes as they go deep down into the earth. 
Job28:5 We grow our food on the earth above. But deep under the ground, people use fire to break the rocks." 
Job28:6 Sapphires come from the rocks in those places. The dust there contains gold. 
Job28:7 Even eagles or other birds with good eyes do not see those places. 
Job28:8 Lions and other wild animals do not walk there. 
Job28:9 People break into the hard rocks. They turn over rocks under the mountains. 
Job28:10 They cut holes through the rocks. They discover stones that are very valuable. 
Job28:11 They look carefully in the springs of water where rivers start. They bring into the light things that were hidden away. 
Job28:12 But as for wisdom, people do not know where to find it. They cannot learn how to understand things properly." 
Job28:13 Humans do not understand the value of wisdom. They cannot find it in this world where people live. 
Job28:14 Wisdom is not in the sea. Even in the deepest sea, no one will find it." 
Job28:15 Nobody can buy wisdom. You may have lots of gold and silver, but you can never buy wisdom." 
Job28:16 All the pure gold from Ophir will not be enough to buy it. It is worth more than valuable onyx or sapphires. 
Job28:17 Neither gold nor beautiful glass is as valuable as wisdom. A whole pot full of gold could not buy it. 
Job28:18 As for coral and jasper, they are not nearly as valuable as wisdom. Its price is more than the price of rubies." 
Job28:19 Topaz from Ethiopia is not as valuable as wisdom. No one can buy it, not even with pure gold." 
Job28:20 So where can we find wisdom? Where can we learn to understand things properly? 
Job28:21 We cannot see where it is. No person or animal can see it. No bird that flies in the sky can see it. 
Job28:22 In the place of death, they say, “We have heard only a little about wisdom, and where to find it.”" 
Job28:23 Only God knows the way to find wisdom. Only he knows where it is. 
Job28:24 He can see to the ends of the earth. He knows what happens everywhere in the world. 
Job28:25 He decided how strong the wind must be. He decided the size of the seas. 
Job28:26 He made a command for the rain to decide where it should fall. He chose where storms should go and make thunder. 
Job28:27 Then he thought about wisdom and its value. He prepared it and he tested it. 
Job28:28 God said this to us humans: “If you want to be wise, learn to respect the Lord with fear. If you want to understand things properly, turn away from evil acts.” ’" 
Job29:1 Job continued to speak. This is what he said: 
Job29:2 ‘I would like my life to be as it was before, many months ago. At that time, God took care of me." 
Job29:3 He was my guide, as if he had a lamp to show me the way. His light kept me safe as I walked in dark places." 
Job29:4 I was strong and well. God was my friend and he protected my home. 
Job29:5 At that time, Almighty God was still with me. My children were near me." 
Job29:6 I got plenty of milk from my cows, so that my life was easy. My olive trees gave me lots of oil." 
Job29:7 I would go to the gate of the city, and sit there as one of the leaders." 
Job29:8 When young men saw me, they would move to the side. Even the old men would stand up to respect me." 
Job29:9 The city's rulers would stop speaking. They would cover their mouths with their hands. 
Job29:10 The important leaders would be quiet. They would not want to say anything. 
Job29:11 Everyone was very pleased to listen to the things that I said. They respected me when they saw the things that I did. 
Job29:12 When poor people cried for help, I rescued them. I helped children who had no family that could help them." 
Job29:13 People who were near to death praised me for my help. Widows were happy when I helped them. 
Job29:14 I always did what was right, like good clothes that I wore. I was fair and honest, like my coat and my hat." 
Job29:15 If people were blind, I would be their guide. If people could not walk, I would get things for them." 
Job29:16 If poor people needed help, I helped them like their father would do. I spoke on behalf of strangers to help them get justice." 
Job29:17 I destroyed the power of wicked people. I rescued the people that they had attacked. 
Job29:18 At that time, I thought, “I will live to be an old man. After a long life, I will die in my own home." 
Job29:19 My body is strong and well, like a tree that always has plenty of water." 
Job29:20 People will continue to give me honour. Each day I will have new strength.” 
Job29:21 People waited patiently to hear my advice. They listened carefully to what I said. 
Job29:22 After I had spoken, they did not say any more. They listened to every word and they thought about it." 
Job29:23 They would wait for me to speak to them, like people who wait for rain to fall. My words would make them happy, like rain in spring that makes a farmer happy." 
Job29:24 They were surprised when I smiled at them. My smile made them happy. 
Job29:25 As their leader, I told them what they should do. I was like a king who leads his soldiers. When they were sad, I would comfort them.’" 
Job30:1 ‘But now it is different. Men who are younger than I am laugh at me. I would not even trust their fathers to take care of my sheep. 
Job30:2 The work that those old men could do was no help to me. They no longer were strong. 
Job30:3 They were weak and thin because they were hungry. They had to look for food in the desert at night. They found roots to eat in dry places. 
Job30:4 They pulled up plants in the desert as their food. They burned the roots of bushes to keep themselves warm. 
Job30:5 People chased them away from their towns, as if they were shouting at robbers." 
Job30:6 They had to live in dry valleys, among the rocks, or in caves." 
Job30:7 They cried aloud like animals among the bushes. They hid together under the thorn bushes. 
Job30:8 They were foolish people that nobody respected. People chased them away from their land. 
Job30:9 But now their sons sing songs that insult me. They tell jokes about me. 
Job30:10 They hate me and they do not come near me. When they see me, they spit at my face." 
Job30:11 God has made me weak and helpless. People do to me anything that they want to do. 
Job30:12 From one side, the crowd attacks me. They make me run away. They are like an army that builds a road to come and attack me." 
Job30:13 They stop me from escaping. They are ready to destroy me. They do not need anyone to help them. 
Job30:14 I cannot stop them when they attack me. They rush forward to knock me down. 
Job30:15 So I am always afraid. My honour has disappeared as if a strong wind has blown it away. My riches have also gone, like a cloud that passes across the sky." 
Job30:16 Now I know that my life will soon end. Every day I continue to suffer. 
Job30:17 At night, my bones are painful. The pain is always there in my body." 
Job30:18 God has used his power to take hold of me. He has held my shirt around my neck. 
Job30:19 He has thrown me down into the mud. I am no better than dust and ashes on the ground. 
Job30:20 I call aloud to you, God, but you do not answer me. When I stand to pray, you only look at me." 
Job30:21 You have become cruel to me. You have used your strength to attack me. 
Job30:22 You take hold of me and you carry me away, like a strong wind that blows. You use a storm to destroy me." 
Job30:23 I know that you are already taking me to my death. Everyone who lives has to go to that place. 
Job30:24 When someone is weak and in trouble, people do not usually try to hurt him. When someone calls aloud for help, they do not refuse to help him." 
Job30:25 When other people were in trouble, I wept for them. When I saw poor people it made me very upset." 
Job30:26 But when I hoped for good things to happen, trouble came instead. When I looked for light to shine on me, everything became dark." 
Job30:27 I hurt inside me all the time. Every day pain causes me to suffer. 
Job30:28 Illness has caused my skin to become black. It is not the sun that has made that happen. I stand up in the public meeting place and I call aloud for help. 
Job30:29 I have become like the jackals and the ostriches. My sad voice sounds like them. 
Job30:30 My skin has become black, and bits of skin fall off. My body is hot with fever." 
Job30:31 Now, when I make music with my harp, I only sing funeral songs. When I make music with my flute, I do it for people who are weeping.’" 
Job31:1 ‘I have made a promise with myself about how I look at young women. I will never think that I want to have sex with them. 
Job31:2 Anyone who does that should expect God to punish them. Almighty God in heaven above punishes people who do wrong things. 
Job31:3 He sends trouble to people who do wicked things. He punishes those people who do evil things. 
Job31:4 God sees all the things that I do. He carefully watches how I live my life. 
Job31:5 He must know that I am an honest man. I have never tried to deceive people. 
Job31:6 So he should judge me in a fair way. He should realize that I am not guilty. 
Job31:7 God seems to think that I have not lived in the right way. He may think that I have wanted bad things when they looked nice to me. Or perhaps I have done something else that was wrong. 
Job31:8 If I am really guilty of these things, someone else should eat the crops that I have planted. They should destroy all the crops in my fields." 
Job31:9 I have not wanted to love any woman except my wife. I have not hidden outside my friend's house to wait for his wife to be alone. 
Job31:10 If I had done those things, my wife should prepare food for another man. It would be right for other men to have sex with her." 
Job31:11 I would not have been faithful to my wife. I would have done a wicked thing and I would deserve punishment. 
Job31:12 If I loved another woman, it would be like a dangerous fire. It would destroy everything that I have worked hard to get." 
Job31:13 When my servants complain against me, I have always been fair to them." 
Job31:14 If I had been cruel to them, God would be right to punish me. When God judges me, I would have no honest answer to give to him." 
Job31:15 God made me and he made my servants too. God brought us all to birth. 
Job31:16 I have never refused to help people who are poor. I have always helped widows to hope for good things. 
Job31:17 I have never kept all my food for myself. I have always shared it with children who have no family. 
Job31:18 Since I was a young man, I have helped those children like a father. All my life I have helped widows too." 
Job31:19 I have seen people without enough clothes to keep them warm, or without a coat to wear." 
Job31:20 Then I would give them clothes. The wool from my sheep would keep them warm. And they all thanked me. 
Job31:21 I have not turned against children who have no family, even when the city judges agreed with me." 
Job31:22 God should punish me if these things are not true. I would accept the punishment that I deserve. 
Job31:23 I was afraid of the trouble that God might bring to me. So I could not do these bad things, because God is so great and powerful." 
Job31:24 I have not trusted in money or in gold. I have never thought that they would make me strong. 
Job31:25 When I was very rich, I was not proud about it. I did not think that I had worked hard to deserve it." 
Job31:26 I have looked at the sun when it shines brightly. And I have seen the moon when it is very beautiful. 
Job31:27 But I have never wanted to worship them or to give them honour. 
Job31:28 If I had done that, I would not have been faithful to God in heaven. I would have deserved punishment for that sin." 
Job31:29 I do not laugh at my enemies when they suffer. If my enemy has troubles, it does not make me happy." 
Job31:30 I have not cursed my enemies, to ask God to kill them. That would have caused a sin to come from my mouth!" 
Job31:31 None of the people who work in my house have ever said, “Job has not welcomed strangers into his house. He has not shared his food with them.”" 
Job31:32 Travellers may come to sleep in my house. They do not have to sleep outside in the street. 
Job31:33 I do not try to hide my sins, as some people do." 
Job31:34 I am not afraid of what people think about me. Even if a great crowd of people speak against me, I do not stay inside my house and keep quiet." 
Job31:35 I want someone to listen to me! All the things that I say are true. Almighty God should give me an answer! I need to know what I have done that is wrong. He should write down the reason why I am guilty! 
Job31:36 Then I would wear that paper clearly on my shoulders. I would be proud to wear it like a crown on my head. 
Job31:37 I would explain to God everything that I have done. I would stand in front of him without fear, like a ruler." 
Job31:38 I have not grown crops on land that does not belong to me. The land itself would accuse me if that were true. 
Job31:39 I have always paid for the food that other people have worked to grow. I have never cheated the farmers so that they suffered. 
Job31:40 If I have ever done any of those things, then may thorn bushes grow in my fields instead of wheat. May weeds grow in my fields instead of barley.’ That is the end of the words that Job spoke." 
Job32:1 Job would not agree that he had done anything that was wrong. So his three friends refused to argue with him any more. 
Job32:2 Another man was also there. His name was Elihu, Barakel's son. Barakel was a descendant of Buz. He belonged to Ram's clan. Elihu became very angry with Job. He was angry because Job continued to say that he was not guilty. Job said that God was wrong to punish him." 
Job32:3 Elihu was also angry with Job's three friends. They had not been able to find an answer to Job's problem. But they still said that Job was guilty. 
Job32:4 Elihu had waited for Job's three friends to speak before he spoke to Job himself. He waited because he was younger than them. 
Job32:5 But he became angry when Job's three friends had nothing more to say. So he finally decided to speak. 
Job32:6 Barakel's son, Elihu, said this: ‘I am young and you are old. So I was afraid to tell you what I was thinking." 
Job32:7 I thought, “Older men should speak. They have lived for many years and they should share their wisdom.”" 
Job32:8 But it is a person's spirit that helps them to understand things. Almighty God has to put his breath into them. 
Job32:9 Not all old people are wise. Old people do not always understand what is right. 
Job32:10 So I say, “Listen to me. I too will explain what I know.”" 
Job32:11 Yes, I waited for you all to speak. I listened to your wise thoughts, as you tried to find the right words to say." 
Job32:12 I listened carefully to you, as you argued with Job. But none of you could show Job that he was wrong. None of you was able to answer his problems." 
Job32:13 So do not say, “We are wise.” Do not say, “God must show Job that he is wrong. People cannot do that.”" 
Job32:14 Job was not speaking to me about his problems. So I will not answer him in the way that you did. 
Job32:15 Now they are confused! They have no more answers to give. There is nothing more that they can say. 
Job32:16 I have waited for them, and now they say nothing. They stand there and they have no more answers." 
Job32:17 So now I will say what I think. I, too, will tell you what I know." 
Job32:18 There are many things that I want to say. The spirit inside me causes me to speak. 
Job32:19 I cannot keep quiet any longer! I am like a bag that is full of new wine. I am ready to break so that everything pours out! 
Job32:20 So I have to speak or I will become ill. I must open my mouth and reply to you. 
Job32:21 I will be fair in what I say. I will not give honour to anyone to get their help. 
Job32:22 I am too honest to do that. If I am not fair, God, my Maker, would quickly remove me.’" 
Job33:1 ‘But now, Job, listen to the things that I will tell you. Listen carefully to everything that I will say." 
Job33:2 I will speak to you now. I am ready to tell you what I think. 
Job33:3 I am an honest man, so you can believe what I say. I will tell you what I know is true." 
Job33:4 The Spirit of Almighty God has made me. His breath gives me life. 
Job33:5 Answer me now, Job, if you can. Prepare yourself. Be ready to explain your problem to me." 
Job33:6 Listen! When God looks at us, we are the same as each other. God used clay to make both of us." 
Job33:7 So you should not be afraid of me. I will not do anything to hurt you. 
Job33:8 I have heard the things that you have said, Job. This is what I heard you say:" 
Job33:9 “I am not guilty. I have not done anything that is wrong. I am pure and clean. 
Job33:10 But God has decided to punish me! He attacks me as if I am his enemy. 
Job33:11 He has tied my feet with chains. He always watches me to see where I go.” 
Job33:12 But now I tell you this, Job: You are not right! God is greater than any human." 
Job33:13 So you should not argue against him. You should not say, “God does not answer any of my questions.”" 
Job33:14 God does speak to people. He speaks to them in many different ways. But often people do not recognize his voice. 
Job33:15 Sometimes God speaks to people in dreams and visions. He speaks to them at night, while they sleep in bed." 
Job33:16 He tells them about things that will happen. He warns them about terrible things, so that they are afraid." 
Job33:17 He tells them to turn away from their sins. He tells them not to be proud. 
Job33:18 He keeps people safe from death, so that they do not go to their graves." 
Job33:19 Or God may warn people with a painful illness. He may make their bodies hurt all the time. 
Job33:20 Then they do not want to eat anything. They cannot eat even the best food. 
Job33:21 Their bodies become very thin. People can even see their bones. 
Job33:22 They will soon die and go to their graves. Death is waiting to take them away. 
Job33:23 But perhaps an angel may come to help one of those people. He may speak on behalf of God, as a special angel among the many thousands of God's angels. The angel may tell that person how to live in a way that is right." 
Job33:24 Then God will be kind to that person. God will say, “Save that person, so that he does not go to his grave. I have found someone to pay the price for his life. So keep him alive.”" 
Job33:25 Then that person's body will become healthy again. He will be strong, like a young man." 
Job33:26 When he prays to God, God will be happy to answer him. He will again worship God with joy. And God will give him a good way of life again." 
Job33:27 That person will say clearly to everyone, “I did things that were not right. I did wrong things, but God did not punish me as I deserved." 
Job33:28 God rescued me from death, so that I did not go to my grave. Now I will enjoy my life in the light.”" 
Job33:29 God does all these things for people. He does them many times. 
Job33:30 He saves a person from death, so that he does not go to his grave. He gives light to that person, so that he may enjoy his life." 
Job33:31 Job, listen carefully to me. Be quiet, and I will speak to you." 
Job33:32 After that, you may answer me, if you have something to say. If I could say that you have not done anything wrong, that would make me happy." 
Job33:33 But if you have nothing to say, then listen to me. Be quiet and I will teach you how to be wise.’" 
Job34:1 Elihu continued speaking and he said this: 
Job34:2 ‘You men who are so wise and who know so much, listen to me. Hear what I have to say." 
Job34:3 You recognize nice food when you eat it. So you should recognize the value of my words. 
Job34:4 We should decide among ourselves what is right. We should agree together what is good. 
Job34:5 Job has said, “I am not guilty, but God refuses to judge me in a fair way." 
Job34:6 I am right, but nobody believes me. I have not done anything wrong, but I am suffering and I am near to death.”" 
Job34:7 There has never been a man like Job! He laughs at God as easily as he drinks water. 
Job34:8 He is a friend of wicked people, and people who do evil things." 
Job34:9 Job says, “If anyone tries to please God, it does not help them at all.”" 
Job34:10 So listen to me, you men who understand so much. Almighty God can never do anything that is wrong or wicked!" 
Job34:11 He judges people fairly as he sees the things that they do. He gives people what they deserve. 
Job34:12 It is true! Almighty God does not do wicked things. He never refuses to judge people in a fair way. 
Job34:13 God's great power did not come from anyone else! He himself has authority over the whole world. 
Job34:14 God could decide to remove life from the world. He could take back his spirit and his breath. 
Job34:15 If he did that, everyone that is alive would die. As humans, we would become dirt again." 
Job34:16 If you really understand things, Job, listen to me. Hear what I have to say." 
Job34:17 If God refused to do what is right, he could not rule the world. He is the powerful Judge who knows what is right. But you say that he is guilty!" 
Job34:18 It is God who may say to a king, “You are useless!” He may say to rulers, “You are wicked!”" 
Job34:19 God created everyone. He is not more kind to important people than he is to other people. He does not help rich people more than he helps poor people. 
Job34:20 Anyone may die suddenly, in the middle of the night. God may shake them, so that they die. He easily removes even the most powerful people." 
Job34:21 He watches the way that each person lives. He sees what they do every day. 
Job34:22 People who do wicked things cannot hide themselves. There is no place dark enough for them to hide from God. 
Job34:23 God does not have to tell people when they must come to him, so that he can judge them." 
Job34:24 He destroys powerful people, and he chooses other people to take their place. He does not have to ask them anything." 
Job34:25 He already knows the things that they have done. In the night, he removes their power, and he destroys them." 
Job34:26 He punishes them because they have done wicked things. He does that where everyone can see. 
Job34:27 Those powerful people have turned away from God. They have not respected his commands. 
Job34:28 They were cruel to poor people, so that God saw what was happening. God heard those poor people when they called to him for help." 
Job34:29 But if God decides to do nothing, no one can say that he is wrong. If he hides himself, no one can see him. But he still rules over people and over nations." 
Job34:30 God does not let men rule, if they do not respect his ways. He stops them from causing trouble to the people." 
Job34:31 Someone could say to God, “I am guilty, and I have received my punishment. But I will not do any more wrong things." 
Job34:32 Show me the sins that I have done when I did not know about them. If I have done wrong things, I will not do them again.”" 
Job34:33 But you, Job, refuse to accept God's justice. Do you expect God to do what you think is right? But you must choose what you will say. I cannot decide for you. So tell us what you are thinking now." 
Job34:34 Wise people will agree with me. When they hear my words, they will say," 
Job34:35 “Job speaks like a fool who knows nothing. He only says useless things.” 
Job34:36 Yes Job, you speak to us like a wicked person. So you should continue to suffer for ever!" 
Job34:37 You have not only done wrong things, you have also turned against God. You have shown that you do not respect us. You have said many things that insult God.’" 
Job35:1 Elihu continued to speak to Job. This is what he said: 
Job35:2 ‘The things that you say cannot be true. You say, “I am more right than God is.”" 
Job35:3 But you also say, “If I do nothing wrong, God does not bless me. No good thing comes to me.”" 
Job35:4 Now I will give you an answer. I will also speak to the friends who are with you. 
Job35:5 Look up at the sky to see what is there. Look at the clouds that are so high above you. 
Job35:6 If you do something that is wrong, it does not hurt God. Even if you do many wrong things, it does nothing to him." 
Job35:7 If you are righteous, that does nothing to help God. He does not receive anything that he needs from you." 
Job35:8 If you do wicked things, it is other people who suffer, not God. And if you do good things, you are only helping other people." 
Job35:9 When people suffer, they call aloud for help. They cry for help when powerful people attack them." 
Job35:10 But none of them says, “I want God to help me. He made me. He gives me songs to sing in dark nights." 
Job35:11 God teaches us more things than he teaches to the animals. He makes us wiser than the birds.” 
Job35:12 Finally, they call for help. But God does not answer them, because they are proud and wicked people." 
Job35:13 Their prayers mean nothing. Almighty God does not even listen to them. 
Job35:14 So God will certainly not listen to you, Job, when you say that you cannot see him. You say that you have explained your problem to him. You are waiting for him to give you an answer." 
Job35:15 You also say that God does not become angry with people who do wrong things. You say that he does not punish bad people. 
Job35:16 So, Job, you do not understand what you are saying. You speak a lot of words but they do not mean anything.’" 
Job36:1 Elihu continued to speak to Job. This is what he said: 
Job36:2 ‘Be patient a little bit longer, so that I can teach you some more. I still have more to say to show you that God is right." 
Job36:3 I will tell you the many different things that I know. I will show you that God, my Maker, is completely fair." 
Job36:4 Everything that I say to you is true. I am speaking to you as someone who knows everything. 
Job36:5 God is very powerful but he does not turn anyone away. When he decides to do something, he surely does it." 
Job36:6 He does not allow wicked people to continue to live. But he is always fair to those who are poor and weak. 
Job36:7 He takes care of righteous people. He gives them authority to rule like kings. He gives them honour for ever. 
Job36:8 People who do wrong things may suffer in prison. Chains may hold their legs so that they cannot move. 
Job36:9 When that happens, God shows them what they have done. He shows them their sins. They have done wrong things because they are proud." 
Job36:10 He tells them this to warn them. They must turn away from wicked things. 
Job36:11 They must obey him and agree to serve him. If they do that, they will have everything that they need. They will enjoy all the days that they live." 
Job36:12 But if they refuse to listen to God, they will go to their graves. They will die and they still will not understand what is right." 
Job36:13 People who turn away from God are always angry. Even when God punishes them, they do not pray for help." 
Job36:14 They die while they are still young. Their lives finish in shame, among the male prostitutes who serve false gods." 
Job36:15 But God rescues people who suffer. He uses their troubles to teach them about himself. 
Job36:16 God has called you out of your troubles, Job. He wants you to live in a safe place where you have no problems. He wants you to have a comfortable life with plenty of good food to eat." 
Job36:17 But now you have a lot of trouble, because God is punishing you as wicked people deserve. God is right and fair to judge you like that." 
Job36:18 Be very careful! Do not let anyone use their riches to deceive you. Do not let them pay you a lot of money to do something that is wrong. 
Job36:19 Even if you become rich, that would not keep you safe. Even if you were strong and powerful, that would not keep trouble away from you." 
Job36:20 Do not wait for the night to hide what you want to do. That is the time when people disappear from their homes. 
Job36:21 Be careful! Do not try to do wicked things. God has sent these troubles to test you. He wants to stop you doing evil things. 
Job36:22 Yes, God is very powerful. There is no teacher as good as he is." 
Job36:23 Nobody can tell him what he should do. No one can say to him, “You have done things that are wrong.”" 
Job36:24 People sing songs to praise God for the things that he has done. You also should remember to praise him. 
Job36:25 People everywhere have seen the things that God has done. But we look at them from far away. 
Job36:26 Yes, God is very great! We cannot know him completely. Nobody can count the number of his years!" 
Job36:27 It is God who pulls up water from the earth to make the clouds. Then he causes it to become rain. 
Job36:28 The rain pours down from the clouds. There is plenty for the people on the earth. 
Job36:29 Who understands how the clouds move across the sky? How does the noise of thunder come from God's home? 
Job36:30 Look at the lightning that God sends all over the sky! But he causes the bottom of the sea to remain dark. 
Job36:31 This is the way that God rules the people of the world. He sends the rain to give them plenty of food. 
Job36:32 He sends his lightning like an arrow. He commands it to hit the right place. 
Job36:33 He sends thunder to show that a storm is coming. Even the cows know what is happening.’ 
Job37:1 ‘When I hear the noise of a storm like that, I shake with fear." 
Job37:2 Listen carefully to the sound of God's voice, when he speaks like thunder." 
Job37:3 He sends lightning across the whole sky. Its light reaches everywhere on the earth. 
Job37:4 After the lightning comes the sound of his voice. God roars like the great sound of thunder. When he speaks like that, the storm never stops." 
Job37:5 When God's voice speaks, he causes wonderful things to happen. He does great things that we cannot understand." 
Job37:6 He tells the snow to fall to the earth. He tells the rain to pour down and make the ground wet. 
Job37:7 He does that to show people what he can do. He causes everyone to stop their own work. 
Job37:8 The wild animals have to hide in a safe place. They have to stay in their homes. 
Job37:9 The strong wind of a storm comes from the place where it starts. Cold winds blow strongly from the north. 
Job37:10 The cold wind is like God's breath. He causes ice to cover the rivers and the lakes. 
Job37:11 He fills the clouds with lots of water. He sends the lightning through the clouds. 
Job37:12 The clouds move around across the whole earth. They go wherever God sends them. He tells them what they must do. 
Job37:13 He may send a storm as punishment for his land. Or he may send it to show his love for his people. 
Job37:14 Listen carefully to what I am telling you, Job. Stop and think about the wonderful things that God does." 
Job37:15 Do you know how God commands the storms? Do you know how he sends the bright lightning from the clouds? 
Job37:16 Can you explain how the clouds hang in the sky? God knows everything perfectly and he does these wonderful things. 
Job37:17 When the hot wind blows from the south, nothing moves on the earth. Your body is too hot in the clothes that you wear." 
Job37:18 God puts the clouds across the whole sky, like a metal mirror that shines brightly. Can you also do that? No!" 
Job37:19 Tell us, Job, what things we should say to God. We cannot argue with him, because our minds are in a dark place." 
Job37:20 Should I tell God that I want to speak to him? That would be the end of me! 
Job37:21 Now the wind has blown all the clouds away. The sun shines brightly in the sky. It is too bright for us to look at. 
Job37:22 God comes with his bright glory from the north! His glory is all around him. It makes us afraid. 
Job37:23 Almighty God is so great that we cannot come near to him. He is very powerful. But he always does what is right and fair. He is not cruel to people. 
Job37:24 So people respect God with fear. He does not listen to those who think that they are wise.’ 
Job38:1 The Lord spoke to Job from the middle of the storm. This is what he said: 
Job38:2 ‘Who do you think you are? Why do you ask questions about my wisdom? You speak many words, but you do not understand anything." 
Job38:3 Prepare yourself for a difficult job! I will ask you some questions and you must answer them. 
Job38:4 Were you with me when I made the world? If you think you are so clever, tell me all about it!" 
Job38:5 It was me who decided the size of the world. You surely must know that! I measured it as I made it. 
Job38:6 Tell me how I fixed the foundations of the earth. Who made it stay in its right place? I did! 
Job38:7 At the dawn of that day, the stars sang together. They sang for joy with all the angels." 
Job38:8 When the sea poured out of the ground, I decided where its borders should be. I kept the water in its right place." 
Job38:9 I caused the clouds to come over the sea. I covered it with complete darkness. 
Job38:10 I put a border around the sea. I locked it in its place. 
Job38:11 I said to the sea, “This is as far as you can come. You may come no further. Your powerful waves must stop there!”" 
Job38:12 But you, Job, did you ever command the morning to begin? No! You have never in your whole life told the sun when it should rise." 
Job38:13 You have not told the light of day to cover the earth. You have not told it to chase away the wicked things that happen in the night. 
Job38:14 When the light of day comes, people see the land clearly. Its shape and its colours show like bright clothes." 
Job38:15 The light of day is too bright for wicked people. It destroys their power to do cruel things. 
Job38:16 You have not gone to the springs that fill the seas with water. You have not walked on the bottom of the deep seas. 
Job38:17 Nobody has shown you the gates of death. People go through them to that very dark place. 
Job38:18 You do not understand the great size of the earth. If you know all about that, tell me!" 
Job38:19 You do not know where light comes from. You do not know where darkness has its home. 
Job38:20 Can you take them to the places where they belong? Do you know the roads that go there? 
Job38:21 Surely you must know all this, because you have lived for so long! It seems that you were already born when I created these things!" 
Job38:22 Have you visited the place where I store all the snow? Or the place where I keep the hail? 
Job38:23 I keep the snow and the hail ready to use. I use them in times of trouble and wars. 
Job38:24 You do not know where lightning comes from. Or where the east wind starts when it blows across the earth. 
Job38:25 I make a path for the storms to travel along. I tell the thunder and the strong rain which way to go. 
Job38:26 I cause rain to fall in places where no person lives. It makes even a desert become a wet place. 
Job38:27 The rain falls on dry ground where nothing grows. It causes grass to grow there again. 
Job38:28 Do you know if the rain has a father? Who is a father to the dew? 
Job38:29 Who is a mother to the ice? Who gives birth to the frost that makes the air so cold? 
Job38:30 It causes the water to become as hard as stone. The water of the sea also becomes ice. 
Job38:31 You cannot make the stars of the Pleiades stay in their places. You cannot change the shape of Orion. 
Job38:32 You cannot bring out the groups of stars for people to see at different times of the year. You cannot put the stars of the Great Bear and the Little Bear in their right places in the sky. 
Job38:33 You do not know the rules that the stars above obey. You cannot make the earth obey those rules. 
Job38:34 You cannot shout commands to the clouds. You cannot tell them to pour down their rain, so that a flood of water covers you." 
Job38:35 You cannot send the lightning to hit the place where you want it to go. The lightning does not say to you, “We are ready to go wherever you want.”" 
Job38:36 Who has given people wisdom, so that they understand things with their minds?" 
Job38:37 Is anyone wise enough to count the clouds? Can anyone cause the clouds to pour down rain from above? 
Job38:38 The rain causes the dust of the dry ground to become hard. The dry soil becomes pieces of mud. 
Job38:39 When the lions become hungry, can you find food for the young lions to eat?" 
Job38:40 You cannot do that for them when they sit in their caves. You cannot help them as they hide in the bushes, ready to attack other animals." 
Job38:41 You cannot find food for the ravens to eat. You cannot help them when their babies cry to me because they are weak and hungry.’ 
Job39:1 ‘Job, do you know that time when the goats on the mountains give birth? Do you watch the wild deer when their babies are born?" 
Job39:2 Can you count the number of months that these animals are pregnant? How long must they wait until they give birth? 
Job39:3 They bend down low to the ground. They give birth to the babies that they have carried inside them. 
Job39:4 The young animals grow and they become strong in the fields. Then they leave their parents and they do not return to them. 
Job39:5 Did you send out the wild donkeys to go wherever they want? 
Job39:6 No! It was me who gave them the desert as their home. I let them live in places where the ground has salt. 
Job39:7 They stay far away from the busy cities. They do not allow anyone to make them work. 
Job39:8 Instead, they live on the hills, where they find fresh plants to eat." 
Job39:9 Can you tell a wild ox to work for you? No! At night, it will not stay to feed at your farm." 
Job39:10 It will not let you tie it to a plough. It will not agree to prepare your fields in the valleys. 
Job39:11 A wild ox is very strong. But you cannot trust it to help you with your difficult work. 
Job39:12 It will not help you to bring in your harvest of grain. It will not take the grain to your threshing floor. 
Job39:13 When an ostrich is happy, it waves its wings. But it cannot use its wings to fly, as a stork can do." 
Job39:14 A mother ostrich leaves her eggs on the ground. She lets the sand cause them to be warm. 
Job39:15 She does not realize that people or wild animals might break the eggs with their feet. 
Job39:16 She does not take care of her babies, as if they did not belong to her. She does not worry that all her work might be useless." 
Job39:17 This is because I did not give wisdom to ostriches. I did not give them minds that understand things. 
Job39:18 But when an ostrich begins to run, it can run very fast. It can run faster than a horse and someone who rides on it." 
Job39:19 Did you, Job, give horses their strength? Did you give them the long hair that they have on their necks?" 
Job39:20 You did not make horses able to jump like locusts. They frighten people when they blow air out through their noses. 
Job39:21 They stamp their feet on the ground, as they prepare to go to a battle. They are ready to go and attack the enemy." 
Job39:22 A horse is brave and it is not afraid of anything. It does not run away from the enemy's weapons. 
Job39:23 The soldier who is riding it has his arrows ready at the horse's side. Swords and spears shine brightly in the sun. 
Job39:24 The horse shakes with joy as it runs to the battle. When the battle trumpet makes its noise, the horse wants to run even faster!" 
Job39:25 When it hears the sound of the trumpet, it makes a happy noise. From far away, it recognizes the smell of the battle. It hears the army officers as they shout their commands." 
Job39:26 Was it your wisdom, Job, that taught hawks how to fly? No! You could not teach them to fly towards the south in winter." 
Job39:27 Do eagles wait for your command to fly high into the sky? No! You could not teach them how to build their nests high up in the mountains. 
Job39:28 They live among the highest rocks. That is where they stay at night. They are safe on the sharp rocks. 
Job39:29 From the high rocks, eagles look for their food. They see small animals far away, that they can catch and eat." 
Job39:30 They come together around the bodies of dead animals. The young eagles drink the blood.’ 
Job40:1 The Lord said to Job," 
Job40:2 ‘Do you still want to argue with me, the Almighty God? You say that I have not been fair. Now you must explain what you mean.’" 
Job40:3 Then Job answered the Lord. This is what he said: 
Job40:4 ‘I am only a foolish man. I cannot answer your questions. I cover my mouth with my hand so that I say nothing. 
Job40:5 I have already spoken too many times. I will say no more.’ 
Job40:6 Then the Lord spoke to Job from inside the storm. This is what he said: 
Job40:7 ‘Prepare yourself for a difficult job! I will ask you some more questions and you must answer them. 
Job40:8 Do you say that I am not a fair judge? Do you want to show that I am guilty, not you? Then you could say that you are right." 
Job40:9 Do you have the same power to do great things as I have? Can you speak with a voice as loud as thunder? I can! 
Job40:10 If you think that you can do all this, show how great you are! Show everyone your power and your glory!" 
Job40:11 Show everyone your great anger! Look at all the people who like to boast and bring them down low! 
Job40:12 Yes, cause all the proud people to be humble. Knock down wicked people to the ground." 
Job40:13 Bury them all together in the dust of the ground. Cover their faces and put them in their graves. 
Job40:14 If you can do these things, Job, I will praise you. I will agree that you have the power to save yourself." 
Job40:15 Listen! I created the monsters called Behemoth. I made you and I made them too. They eat grass, as cows do." 
Job40:16 But look at the strength of their legs and their body! 
Job40:17 Their tails are like the branches of a cedar tree. Their legs are thick and very strong. 
Job40:18 Their bones are like sticks made of bronze. Their legs are as strong as iron. 
Job40:19 These monsters are some of the greatest animals that I have made. But I who made them can take my sword and go near to them. 
Job40:20 They eat the grass that grows on the hills. That is where the wild animals play. 
Job40:21 They lie down under the thorn trees. They hide among the reeds at the edge of the water. 
Job40:22 They rest in the shadow of the thorn trees, and among the willow trees beside the water." 
Job40:23 Even when the river is deep and dangerous, these monsters are not afraid. The water of the Jordan River may cover their mouths, but they still feel safe." 
Job40:24 There is no way that anyone can catch one of them. No one can make its eyes blind. No one can put a ring in its nose and lead it away.’ 
Job41:1 ‘It is the same with the sea monsters called Leviathan. Can you catch them with a hook? Can you use a rope to keep their mouths shut? 
Job41:2 Can you tie a rope through their noses? Can you put a hook into their mouths? 
Job41:3 No! They will not ask you nicely to be kind and let them go free. 
Job41:4 They will not make any agreement with you. You cannot make them your slaves to work for you as long as they live. 
Job41:5 Leviathan is not something to enjoy at home, like a bird. You cannot tie it with a rope, so that your girls can play with it." 
Job41:6 Traders do not buy it at the market. They do not cut it up to sell it. 
Job41:7 Job, can you throw spears into Leviathan's body to kill it? Can you shoot arrows into its head?" 
Job41:8 If you try to take hold of it, you will never forget the fight! You will never try to do that again!" 
Job41:9 If anyone hopes to catch it, he is deceiving himself. As soon as he sees it, he no longer feels so brave!" 
Job41:10 No one is brave enough to wake it. So is anyone brave enough to argue against me? 
Job41:11 Nobody has ever won against me to make me pay them anything. Everything in the whole world belongs to me. 
Job41:12 I must tell you how strong Leviathan's legs are. Their bodies are very strong and they have a wonderful shape. 
Job41:13 Nobody is able to remove their thick skin. It is like armour that nobody can cut through. 
Job41:14 Nobody is strong enough to open its mouth. Its teeth make everyone afraid. 
Job41:15 Its back is like rows of shields. They are as hard as stone with no spaces between them. 
Job41:16 Each shield is very near the next one. Not even air can pass between them. 
Job41:17 They are strongly joined together, and nothing can pull them apart." 
Job41:18 When Leviathan breathes out loudly, bright light shines from its nose. Its eyes shine like the red sun at dawn." 
Job41:19 Fire comes out from its mouth. Bright flames shoot out! 
Job41:20 Smoke pours out from its nose, like reeds that burn under a pot." 
Job41:21 Its breath is hot enough to light a fire! Flames pour out of its mouth. 
Job41:22 Its neck is very strong. Wherever it goes, people shake with fear." 
Job41:23 There are no weak places in its skin. Its skin is as hard as iron. 
Job41:24 It is cruel and it has no fear. Its heart is as hard as stone. 
Job41:25 Even the bravest people are afraid when Leviathan appears. They run away when it starts to move. 
Job41:26 If you hit it with a sword, you will not hurt it. Spears, arrows and knives will be useless." 
Job41:27 It can easily break iron or bronze weapons. It breaks them as easily as grass or soft wood. 
Job41:28 If you shoot arrows at it, it will not run away. If you use a sling to throw stones at it, the stones will hurt it no more than bits of chaff." 
Job41:29 If you hit it with a heavy stick, that hurts it no more than a piece of straw. If you throw a spear at it, it laughs!" 
Job41:30 Its stomach has sharp pieces, like bits of a pot that someone has broken. When it moves along, it ploughs the soil under it." 
Job41:31 When it swims in the deep water of the sea, the water seems to boil. It makes big waves, like oil that is boiling in a pot." 
Job41:32 As it swims, the water behind it shines. It makes waves that look like white hair on the sea." 
Job41:33 There is no other animal like it in the whole world. It is not afraid of anything. 
Job41:34 It does not respect any other great animal. It rules as king over all the proud animals.’ 
Job42:1 Then Job replied to the Lord. He said this: 
Job42:2 ‘I know that you can do all things. You can do anything that you want to do. Nobody can stop you. 
Job42:3 You asked me, “Why do you ask questions about my wisdom, when you do not understand anything?” It is true. I was speaking about things that I do not understand. They are things that are too wonderful for me to know." 
Job42:4 You said to me, “Listen carefully to what I will say. I will ask you questions and you must answer them.”" 
Job42:5 In the past, I had heard about you from other people. Now I have seen you for myself." 
Job42:6 So I am ashamed of the things that I said. I sit here in dirt and in ashes to show you that I am very sorry.’ 
Job42:7 When the Lord had spoken to Job, he said this to Eliphaz, the man from Teman: ‘I am very angry with you and with your two friends. The things that my servant Job has said about me are true. But the things that you said were not right." 
Job42:8 You three men must now go to Job. Take seven bulls and seven male sheep with you. Burn them as sacrifices for yourselves. After you have done that, my servant Job will pray for you. I will answer his prayer. Then I will not punish you as you deserve because of your foolish words. My servant Job has spoken the truth about me, but you have not.’" 
Job42:9 So Eliphaz, the man from Teman, Bildad, the man from Shuah, and Zophar, the man from Naamah, did what the Lord had told them to do. And the Lord answered Job's prayer." 
Job42:10 After Job prayed for his three friends, the Lord made him a rich man again. He gave Job twice as many things as he had before." 
Job42:11 Then Job's brothers and sisters came to eat a big meal with him in his house. People who had been Job's friends came also. They all told him that they were sad about his troubles. They were upset because the Lord had caused him to suffer. Each of them gave Job a piece of silver and a gold ring. 
Job42:12 After this, the Lord blessed Job more than in the beginning of his life. All these animals belonged to Job: 14,000 sheep, 6,000 camels, 1,000 pairs of oxen, and 1,000 female donkeys." 
Job42:13 He had seven sons and three daughters. 
Job42:14 The daughters' names were Jemimah, Keziah, and Keren-Happuch." 
Job42:15 They were the most beautiful women in the whole land of Uz. Job said that they should receive some of his things after he died, along with their brothers." 
Job42:16 Job lived for 140 years after this. He was still alive when his grandchildren and their grandchildren were born. 
Job42:17 So when Job died, he had lived for a long time." 
Psalms1:1 If someone does not do what wicked people tell him to do, if he does not join with sinners, if he does not meet with those who laugh at God, God has blessed that person!" 
Psalms1:2 He is happy when he obeys the Law of the Lord. He thinks about God's Law during the day and at night. 
Psalms1:3 He will become like a tree that grows beside streams of water. It gives its fruit at the right season. Its leaves do not fall off. Everything that person does will have a good result. 
Psalms1:4 But wicked people are as empty as chaff. The wind blows them away. 
Psalms1:5 So they will not go free when God judges them. Sinners cannot join with God's people, the people who are right with God." 
Psalms1:6 The Lord takes care of people who respect him. But wicked people are living in a way that will take them to a bad end. 
Psalms2:1 Why are nations making plans to turn against the Lord? All their plans will fail! 
Psalms2:2 Kings and rulers decide to work together, to fight against the Lord and the king that he has chosen." 
Psalms2:3 They say, ‘We will not accept their authority over us! We will get free from their power!’" 
Psalms2:4 The Lord who sits on his throne in heaven laughs at them. He says that their plans are useless. 
Psalms2:5 Then he becomes very angry and he frightens them. He warns them with strong words and he says," 
Psalms2:6 ‘I have put my king on his throne in Zion. I have put him on my holy mountain.’ 
Psalms2:7 I will tell you what the Lord has promised to me, his king. He said to me, ‘You are my son. Yes, today I have become your father!" 
Psalms2:8 Ask me and see what I will do! I will give you all the nations on the earth. They will all belong to you. 
Psalms2:9 You will break them with an iron sceptre, as if they are clay pots.’" 
Psalms2:10 So, you kings, think carefully! You who rule the nations of the world, learn this lesson:" 
Psalms2:11 Respect the Lord and serve him. Enjoy his rule with fear! 
Psalms2:12 Bend down low in front of his son! If not, the Lord will be angry. He will quickly become very angry. You will suddenly die! But as for those who serve the Lord as their king, he blesses them and he takes care of them all." 
Psalms3:1 Lord, every day I have more enemies. Many people fight against me." 
Psalms3:2 They say about me, ‘God will not save him.’" 
Psalms3:3 But Lord, you are like a shield for me. You are the one who gives me honour. You lift my head up high." 
Psalms3:4 I called aloud to the Lord. He answered me from his holy mountain. 
Psalms3:5 I lie down and I sleep. Then I wake up, because the Lord takes care of me." 
Psalms3:6 Even if 10,000 enemies are all around me to attack me, I will not be afraid of them." 
Psalms3:7 Lord, stand up! My God, save me from my enemies! Hit all my enemies in the face. Break the teeth of those bad people." 
Psalms3:8 Lord, you are the one who saves us. Please bless your people." 
Psalms4:1 God, please answer me when I call aloud for help. You are the one who shows that I am right. Help me in my trouble. Show me that you are kind. Listen to me when I pray." 
Psalms4:2 Tell me this, you people: How long will you refuse to respect me? How long will you love stupid ideas? How long will you agree with lies?" 
Psalms4:3 The Lord is very kind to those who serve him. He has chosen them to belong to himself. So he listens when I pray to him. 
Psalms4:4 Shake with fear and stop doing wrong things! Lie on your bed and think quietly about your life. 
Psalms4:5 Offer the right sacrifices to the Lord. Continue to trust in him. 
Psalms4:6 Many people say, ‘Will anyone do a good thing for us?’ Lord, let your face smile on us." 
Psalms4:7 You have made me very happy. I am happier than anyone who has lots of food and wine. 
Psalms4:8 I will lie down and I will sleep in peace. You, Lord, are the one who takes care of me, and you keep me safe." 
Psalms5:1 Lord, listen to what I say to you. I am upset, so think about what I am saying." 
Psalms5:2 My King and my God, listen to my voice. I am asking you to help me. I am praying to you!" 
Psalms5:3 Lord, every morning you listen to my voice. At sunrise I will turn to you for help, and I will wait for you to answer." 
Psalms5:4 My God, you do not like anything that is bad. Evil people cannot live near you." 
Psalms5:5 Proud people cannot stand in front of you. You hate everyone who does evil things. 
Psalms5:6 You destroy those who tell lies. The Lord hates murderers, and those who deceive others." 
Psalms5:7 But I will come into your house, because of your faithful love. I will bend low in your holy temple, and I will worship you." 
Psalms5:8 Lord, help me to follow your right way. My enemies are waiting to attack me. Show the right way clearly to me, so that I do not go the wrong way." 
Psalms5:9 My enemies never speak what is true. They only want to destroy people. Their mouth has the smell of an open grave. Their tongues say nice things, but they are all lies!" 
Psalms5:10 God, say that they are guilty! Let their own wicked ideas bring punishment to them. Send them away because they do so many bad things. Yes, they have turned against you." 
Psalms5:11 May all people who turn to you be happy! Make them always sing with joy, because you keep them safe. Take care of those who are faithful to you. Then they will be really happy." 
Psalms5:12 Lord, you bless those who live in a right way. Your love is like a shield that keeps them safe." 
Psalms6:1 Lord, when you are angry, please do not punish me." 
Psalms6:2 I do not feel strong, Lord, so please be kind to me. Lord, please make me well again. Even my bones are shaking." 
Psalms6:3 I am very frightened. Lord, when will you do something to help me?" 
Psalms6:4 Lord, turn back to me. Give me back my life. Make me safe because of your faithful love." 
Psalms6:5 If I die, I will no longer remember you. Nobody can praise you in their grave!" 
Psalms6:6 I am crying so much that I have no more strength. My bed becomes wet because I weep all night. My tears run into my pillow. 
Psalms6:7 I am so sad that my eyes do not see well any more. They are becoming weak because of all my enemies. 
Psalms6:8 Go away from me, you people who do wicked things! Now the Lord has heard me when I weep." 
Psalms6:9 I asked the Lord to be kind and to help me. Now he has answered me! 
Psalms6:10 All my enemies will become ashamed! They will go away from me in fear! Shame will suddenly come to them! 
Psalms7:1 Lord, my God, I come to you to keep me safe. Please save me from all those people who want to catch me." 
Psalms7:2 If you do not keep me safe, my enemies will tear me into pieces. They will attack me like lions do, and nobody will be able to save me." 
Psalms7:3 Lord, my God, if I have done a wrong thing, then let my enemies chase me and catch me. If I have done a bad thing against a friend, let my enemies catch me. If I have helped a friend's enemy to attack him, let my enemies catch me! If I am guilty of any of these things, let my enemies knock me down to the ground. They should leave me there, so that I lie as a dead person in the dirt." 
Psalms7:4  
Psalms7:5  
Psalms7:6 But Lord, now do something! Wake up and help me! Show how angry you are against my enemies. Punish them in the way that you know is right!" 
Psalms7:7 Bring together the people of all nations, to stand in front of you. Rule over them from high above." 
Psalms7:8 You, Lord, judge the people of all nations. Lord, Most High God, say that I am not guilty. Truly, I am righteous and honest." 
Psalms7:9 Stop wicked people from doing evil things. Keep your own people safe. You always do what is right, and you know how we think and feel." 
Psalms7:10 The Most High God is like a shield to keep me safe. He takes care of good, honest people." 
Psalms7:11 God is a judge who is fair. Every day he is angry against wicked people. 
Psalms7:12 If they do not change the way that they live, God will prepare to punish them. He will make his sword sharp, and he will put an arrow in his bow." 
Psalms7:13 He will prepare his dangerous weapons. He is ready to shoot his arrows that burn with fire. 
Psalms7:14 Look! Wicked people prepare to do evil things! They want to cause trouble. Like a pregnant woman, what starts inside them comes out for everyone to see! They give birth to lies that deceive people." 
Psalms7:15 Wicked people want to hurt people. They are digging a deep hole for people to fall into. But they fall into the hole themselves! 
Psalms7:16 The ideas that they have to hurt other people bring trouble on themselves! They want to be cruel to other people, but they themselves receive the pain!" 
Psalms7:17 So I will thank the Lord because he does what is right. The Lord is the Most High God, so I will sing to praise his name!" 
Psalms8:1 Lord, our ruler, your name is famous all over the world. The sky above shows how great you are." 
Psalms8:2 You have taught children and babies to praise you. You do that to show your enemies how strong you are. Anyone who turns against you has to be quiet. Your cruel enemies can do nothing! 
Psalms8:3 You made the skies with your own hands. When I look up, I see the moon and the stars. You have put them all in their right place." 
Psalms8:4 So why do you even think about men and women? Why do you take care of humans? 
Psalms8:5 You have made them a little lower than God himself. You have given them honour, like kings." 
Psalms8:6 You have chosen them to rule everything that you have made. You have put everything under their authority. 
Psalms8:7 Yes! Humans rule them all: Farm animals and wild animals, birds, fish and all the things that swim in the sea." 
Psalms8:8  
Psalms8:9 Lord, our ruler, your name is famous all over the world." 
Psalms9:1 I will thank you, Lord, with all that I am. I will tell people about all the great things that you have done." 
Psalms9:2 I will be very happy because of who you are. I will sing to praise your name, Most High God." 
Psalms9:3 When my enemies see your power, they run away. They fall down and that is the end of them." 
Psalms9:4 You have shown that I am right. You have sat on your throne as a judge. You decide in a fair and honest way. 
Psalms9:5 You have spoken against the nations, to make them afraid. You have destroyed the wicked people. Nobody will remember them ever again." 
Psalms9:6 The cities of our enemies have become a heap of stones! You destroyed their cities for ever. Nobody remembers our enemies at all. 
Psalms9:7 The Lord rules as king for ever. He sits on his throne as a righteous judge. 
Psalms9:8 He is fair when he judges all the people in the world. He brings justice to the nations. 
Psalms9:9 The Lord is a strong, safe place for people who are suffering. When trouble comes to them, he keeps them safe." 
Psalms9:10 Everyone who knows you, Lord, trusts in you. You never turn away from anyone who comes to you for help." 
Psalms9:11 Sing to the Lord to praise him! He rules as king in Zion. Tell the nations about the great things that he has done. 
Psalms9:12 God punishes murderers. He takes care of people who are suffering. When they call to him, he does not refuse to help them." 
Psalms9:13 Please be kind to me, Lord. See how my enemies cause me to suffer! You are the one who can save me from death." 
Psalms9:14 Then I will praise you for everyone to hear! I will tell the people of Zion that you have saved me, and I will be very happy!" 
Psalms9:15 People of other nations dug a deep hole to catch me. Now they have fallen into it themselves! The trap that they hid to catch me has caught their own feet! 
Psalms9:16 The Lord has shown us who he is. We know that he brings justice. The evil things that wicked people do catch them in their own traps. 
Psalms9:17 Wicked people will go away into the deep hole of death. This will happen to all the nations that turn away from God. 
Psalms9:18 But as for those who are poor and weak, God will never forget them. People who suffer should continue to hope." 
Psalms9:19 Lord, stand up! Do not let people turn against you! Bring the nations to stand in front of you. Judge them!" 
Psalms9:20 Lord, make them afraid! Make the nations know that they are only weak and human." 
Psalms10:1 Lord, why do you stand so far away from us? Why do you hide when we are in trouble?" 
Psalms10:2 Wicked people are cruel to poor people. They use their evil ideas to take hold of weak people. 
Psalms10:3 Wicked people boast because they get the things that they want. They praise greedy people, and they curse the Lord." 
Psalms10:4 Wicked people are too proud to turn to God. They think, ‘God will not give me any trouble.’" 
Psalms10:5 Wicked people always seem to have success. They do not respect your commands, God. They laugh at all their enemies." 
Psalms10:6 They think, ‘No trouble will cause us to fail. Nothing bad will ever happen to us.’" 
Psalms10:7 Many lies come from their mouths, and they are always cursing people. They say evil things to be cruel and to hurt people." 
Psalms10:8 They hide near the villages. They wait there to catch people and they kill them. They look for any weak person who passes that way. 
Psalms10:9 They hide like lions among bushes. They wait to catch a poor, weak person. Like hunters who catch animals in their nets, they carry the people away." 
Psalms10:10 They stamp on these helpless people. They knock them down to the ground. The weak people fall down, because the wicked people are too strong." 
Psalms10:11 Wicked people think, ‘God will give us no trouble! He does not even see what we do.’" 
Psalms10:12 Rise up, Lord! Knock down wicked people! Do not forget to help weak people." 
Psalms10:13 Why do wicked people insult God? They think, ‘God will not give me any trouble.’" 
Psalms10:14 But you, God, see what is happening. You see how wicked people bring pain and trouble. You decide how to punish them. Helpless people trust that you will help them. You take care of children who have no father." 
Psalms10:15 So destroy the power of wicked, evil men! Punish them for the wicked things that they have done. Cause them to stop." 
Psalms10:16 The Lord rules as king for ever! The nations who do not serve him will disappear from his land. 
Psalms10:17 Lord, you listen to the prayers of people who are suffering. When they call to you for help, you make them feel brave and strong." 
Psalms10:18 You stand beside children who have no father, and all those who are poor and weak. As a result, no human on the earth can frighten them again." 
Psalms11:1 I have trusted the Lord to keep me safe. So do not say this to me: ‘Fly away like a bird to the hills! 
Psalms11:2 See what the wicked people are doing! They are preparing their bows and arrows. They are hiding in dark places, to shoot their arrows at good, honest people." 
Psalms11:3 When the law no longer has authority, righteous people can do nothing!’" 
Psalms11:4 The Lord is in his holy temple. He rules from his throne in heaven. He carefully watches what people are doing. He knows about each person. 
Psalms11:5 The Lord watches both good people and wicked people. Good people please him, but he hates wicked people and cruel people." 
Psalms11:6 He will send hot coal and sulphur to fall like rain on wicked people. A dangerous wind will be the punishment that they deserve. 
Psalms11:7 The Lord always does what is right. He loves people to do good things. Those who do what is right will know that God loves them. 
Psalms12:1 Lord, please help me! All the good people have gone away! No kind or faithful people remain." 
Psalms12:2 Everybody tells lies to one another. When they say nice things, they do it to deceive their friends." 
Psalms12:3 Lord, please shut their mouths! When they deceive people or they boast, stop them doing that!" 
Psalms12:4 They say: ‘Nobody can tell us what to do! We will say what we like to get what we want!’ 
Psalms12:5 But the Lord says: ‘Now I will do something! I know the cruel things that wicked people do to poor people. When weak people cry with pain, I hear them. So I will make them safe, as they want me to do for them.’" 
Psalms12:6 The Lord 's promises are true. We can trust them, because they are pure. They are as pure as silver that people have put in a hot fire seven times." 
Psalms12:7 Yes Lord, you will take care of the poor people. You will always keep each one of them safe from all those evil people." 
Psalms12:8 But if people praise evil things, then wicked people will boast more and more." 
Psalms13:1 Lord, will you forget about me for ever? When will you remember to come and help me?" 
Psalms13:2 My thoughts make me worry all the time. How long must I continue to be sad? How long will my enemies continue to win against me? 
Psalms13:3 Lord, please listen to me! I feel that I am nearly dead. Please give me the strength to live!" 
Psalms13:4 If I die, my enemies will say, ‘We have won against him!’ My enemies will be very happy if I fall." 
Psalms13:5 But I will trust you because of your faithful love. Please make me safe, so that I can be happy and thank you." 
Psalms13:6 Yes, I will sing to praise the Lord, because he will surely help me." 
Psalms14:1 Only fools say to themselves, ‘There is no God.’ People like that do bad and evil things. None of them do things that are good and right." 
Psalms14:2 The Lord is looking down from heaven. He looks at the people of the world, to see if there are any wise people among them. He looks to see if anyone wants to know God." 
Psalms14:3 But everyone has turned away from God. They have all become evil. Not even one person does things that are right! 
Psalms14:4 Will those evil people never learn? They destroy my people, as if they are eating a meal. They never pray to the Lord." 
Psalms14:5 Look at them! Now they are very afraid! They see that God is with the people who obey him. 
Psalms14:6 You wicked people tried to bring shame to poor people. But the Lord keeps poor people safe. 
Psalms14:7 The Lord is the one who can save Israel's people. Please Lord, come now from your home in Zion! When the Lord makes his people strong again, Jacob's descendants will be happy! Yes, Israel's people will shout with joy!" 
Psalms15:1 Lord, who may stay with you, in your own home? Who may live there, on your holy hill?" 
Psalms15:2 It is the person who does only things that are right. It is the person who lives in a completely good way, and who speaks only what he knows is true." 
Psalms15:3 He says nothing bad against other people. He does nothing that will hurt his friends, nor does he insult them." 
Psalms15:4 He does not respect wicked people, but he does respect people who serve the Lord. When he promises to do something, he always does it." 
Psalms15:5 He lends his money to help other people, and he does not ask for more money in return. He does not accept a bribe, to speak against people who have done nothing wrong. People who live in this way will always be safe." 
Psalms16:1 Please keep me safe, God, because I come to you for help." 
Psalms16:2 I have said to the Lord, ‘You are my Lord. All the good things that I have in my life are gifts from you.’" 
Psalms16:3 When I think about your own people who live in this land, it makes me happy! They are truly great people!" 
Psalms16:4 But many troubles will come to people who choose to worship other gods. I will not join with them to offer gifts of blood to their gods. I will never use the names of their gods to make promises. 
Psalms16:5 You, Lord, are all that I need. What you give me is enough, for me and for my descendants." 
Psalms16:6 Yes, you have given me a good way of life. Your gifts are better than good fields or valuable land." 
Psalms16:7 I will praise the Lord, who is my guide through life. In the dark nights, you help me to learn what is right." 
Psalms16:8 I will always trust the Lord to be with me. He is very near to me, so I will not be upset." 
Psalms16:9 I am truly happy and I thank God. I know that my life is safe with God. 
Psalms16:10 You, Lord, will not leave me in the deep hole of death. As someone who belongs to you, you will not leave my body to spoil in my grave." 
Psalms16:11 You will lead me along the path of life. Because you are with me, I am very happy. I know that I will be with you for ever, and that makes me very happy!" 
Psalms17:1 Lord, please listen to me. I am asking you to help me. I am speaking what is true, so please do what I ask you to do." 
Psalms17:2 Say clearly that I am not guilty. You can see for yourself that I am right. 
Psalms17:3 You look deep into my mind. You check my thoughts at night. When you test me, you find nothing that is wrong. I have decided that I will never tell any lies." 
Psalms17:4 I have watched people do bad things. But I have obeyed your commands. I have not joined with cruel people to do what they do. 
Psalms17:5 No, I carefully follow your ways. I do not turn away from them." 
Psalms17:6 I pray to you, God, because you will answer me. Please listen to me when I pray to you." 
Psalms17:7 Do great things that show your faithful love! You have the power to keep people safe from their enemies. You help them when they trust you for help. 
Psalms17:8 Please keep me safe, in the same way that people take care of their eyes. Keep me near to you, in the way that birds protect their babies under their wings." 
Psalms17:9 Keep me safe from the wicked men who attack me. My enemies are all around me, and they want to kill me!" 
Psalms17:10 They refuse to be kind to anyone. They speak proud words. 
Psalms17:11 Now they have found me. They are ready to attack! They look for their chance to knock me down to the ground. 
Psalms17:12 They are like hungry lions. They want to tear me into pieces. They are hiding like young lions. They are ready to jump out and catch me! 
Psalms17:13 Lord, please do something! Fight against them! Knock them down! Take your sword and save me from those wicked men." 
Psalms17:14 Lord, use your power to save me from them. They only think about this world, and they enjoy the good things that it gives them. So give them all that you have ready for them. Give them more than they want! May their children also have plenty, and enough left to give to their children too." 
Psalms17:15 As for me, Lord, I am not guilty of sin. So I will see your face. When I wake up, I will see you clearly, and I will be really happy!" 
Psalms18:1 I love you, Lord. You make me strong." 
Psalms18:2 The Lord keeps me safe. He is my great rock and my strong place. God is my high rock. I run to him to hide and be safe. He keeps me safe like a soldier's shield. He is the strong place where I can hide safely. 
Psalms18:3 I praise the Lord because he deserves it! When I called to him for help, he saved me from my enemies." 
Psalms18:4 Death was near enough to catch me! Danger was like a river that poured over me. 
Psalms18:5 Death was tying me up with ropes, to pull me into the deep hole of the grave." 
Psalms18:6 In my trouble, I prayed to the Lord. I called to my God to help me. He heard my voice from his home in heaven. My prayer reached his ears." 
Psalms18:7 Then the earth moved and it shook. Even the strong mountains shook, because God was angry." 
Psalms18:8 He breathed out smoke from his nose. Fire and hot coals came out from his mouth, to destroy his enemies." 
Psalms18:9 God caused the sky to open as he came down. Dark clouds were under his feet. 
Psalms18:10 He sat on a cherub and he flew. The wind carried him as he travelled. 
Psalms18:11 God covered himself with darkness. He hid himself in dark clouds that held rain. 
Psalms18:12 Bright light went in front of him. Hail and lightning fell from the clouds. 
Psalms18:13 The Lord sent thunder from the sky. People everywhere heard the voice of the Most High God. 
Psalms18:14 The Lord shot his arrows of lightning. He caused his enemies to run away. 
Psalms18:15 When you shouted against your enemies, Lord, even the bottom of the deep sea appeared. People could see the foundations of the earth, when you breathed out in anger." 
Psalms18:16 The Lord reached down to me from above. He took hold of me and he pulled me up out of the deep water. 
Psalms18:17 Yes, he saved me from my powerful enemies. The people who hated me were too strong for me, but the Lord saved me from their power." 
Psalms18:18 They attacked me when I was in trouble, but the Lord helped me." 
Psalms18:19 He led me out to a place where I would be safe. He saved me because I made him happy. 
Psalms18:20 The Lord was kind to me because I do things that please him. He blesses me because I am not guilty of bad things. 
Psalms18:21 I have obeyed the Lord 's commands. I have not turned against my God. 
Psalms18:22 I understand all his rules, and I do not refuse to obey them." 
Psalms18:23 He knows that I have done nothing that is wrong. I kept away from any sin. 
Psalms18:24 The Lord has been kind to me, because I did good things. He sees that I am not guilty." 
Psalms18:25 Lord, if people are faithful to you, then you are faithful to them. If people do nothing that is bad, they can trust you to do nothing bad to them." 
Psalms18:26 If people always do what is right, they can trust you to be kind to them. But if people are wicked, you turn against them." 
Psalms18:27 You save people who are humble. But if people are proud, you bring them down very low." 
Psalms18:28 Lord, you make my lamp burn brightly. My God is my light in the dark." 
Psalms18:29 You make me strong, so that I can attack a whole army! With the help of my God, I can climb over any high wall." 
Psalms18:30 God's way is perfect. Yes, the Lord 's promises are always true. He keeps safe everyone who goes to him for help, like a shield that keeps a soldier safe." 
Psalms18:31 We know that the Lord is God, and no one else. Only our God can keep us safe, like a strong rock!" 
Psalms18:32 It is God who makes me strong. He shows me the safe way through my life. 
Psalms18:33 He makes my feet stand strongly on the ground. Like a deer, I can stand on high mountains and not fall." 
Psalms18:34 He teaches me how to fight in war. He makes my arms strong to shoot arrows from a metal bow. 
Psalms18:35 Lord, your power has helped me to be strong. You have kept me safe, like a shield. Your kind help has made me great." 
Psalms18:36 You have helped me to move safely, so that my feet do not slip." 
Psalms18:37 I ran after my enemies and I caught them. I did not turn back until I had killed them. 
Psalms18:38 I knocked them down to the ground. They could not get up again. They fell under my feet. 
Psalms18:39 You have made me strong to fight battles, so that I win against my enemies." 
Psalms18:40 You cause my enemies to turn around, and they run away from me. I can destroy those who hate me." 
Psalms18:41 They call out for help, but nobody is there to help them. They call to the Lord, but he does not answer them." 
Psalms18:42 I beat them into dust that the wind blows away. I walk on them, like dirt that lies on the streets." 
Psalms18:43 You have saved me from people who attacked me. You made me a ruler of other nations. People that I did not know before now serve me as their ruler. 
Psalms18:44 When foreign people hear about me, they choose to obey me. They cannot stand against me because they are afraid." 
Psalms18:45 They are not brave enough to fight me. They shake with fear, as they come out of their strong cities." 
Psalms18:46 The Lord is alive! He is my strong Rock! Everyone should praise him! He rules as king! He is the God who saves me. 
Psalms18:47 He is the true God who punishes my enemies. He makes the nations obey me. 
Psalms18:48 He is the one who saves me from my enemies. Yes, God, you give me power to win against those who attack me. You keep me safe from angry and cruel men." 
Psalms18:49 Lord, I will thank you, so that all the nations know about you. I will sing to praise your name." 
Psalms18:50 Yes, the Lord gives power to me, David, his king. He gives me great strength to win against my enemies. I am the king that he has chosen to rule his people. He will continue to be kind to me and to my descendants for ever." 
Psalms19:1 The heavens show us how great God is. The sky above shows his good work. 
Psalms19:2 Each day speaks about God, until the next day continues the story. Every night tells us how great God is." 
Psalms19:3 They do not use words to speak with. Nobody hears their voice. 
Psalms19:4 But their message goes round all the earth. All the world can understand what they say. God has made a home for the sun in the sky. 
Psalms19:5 Each morning, the sun comes out, like a happy man who has just married. It comes out, like a strong man who wants to run a race." 
Psalms19:6 The sun rises at one end of the heavens. It travels in a big circle to the other end. Nothing can hide from its heat. 
Psalms19:7 The Law of the Lord is perfect. It makes us strong again. We can trust what the Lord teaches us. He helps ordinary people to be wise. 
Psalms19:8 The Lord 's rules are always right. If we obey them, they make us really happy. The Lord 's commands are completely good. They show us how to live in a good way." 
Psalms19:9 It is right for us to respect the Lord. That will always help us. The laws of the Lord are true. They are right and fair. 
Psalms19:10 They are more valuable than gold, even the best gold. They are sweeter than the best honey." 
Psalms19:11 Your laws warn us to do what is right. If we obey them, they are a great help to us." 
Psalms19:12 Nobody realizes every time when they do something wrong. Please forgive me for the sins that I do not know about. 
Psalms19:13 Lord, stop me doing things that I know are wrong. Do not let those sins rule my life. Then I will not be guilty. I will not have turned against you in an evil way." 
Psalms19:14 Lord, I want to make you happy. I want my words and my thoughts to please you. You are my strong Rock and you are my Redeemer." 
Psalms20:1 May the Lord answer you when you are in trouble and you call to him for help. May Israel's great God keep you safe. 
Psalms20:2 He will send help to you from his holy place, from his temple in Zion." 
Psalms20:3 He will remember the gifts that you have offered to him. He will accept your burnt offerings. 
Psalms20:4 May God give to you all the things that you really want. He will help you to do everything that you want to do. 
Psalms20:5 Then we will be happy and we will shout aloud when you win against your enemies. We will wave our flags to praise our God. Yes, I pray that the Lord will do for you everything that you ask him to do." 
Psalms20:6 Now I know that the Lord will rescue the king that he has chosen. God will agree to help him from his holy place in heaven. God will use his great power to make his king safe. 
Psalms20:7 Some people hope that their chariots will keep them safe. Other people trust their horses to save them. But we will trust in the name of the Lord our God. 
Psalms20:8 Those people will fall down, and they will not get up again. But we will get up and stand again, and we will be strong." 
Psalms20:9 Lord, help the king to win against his enemies! Please answer us when we ask you for help." 
Psalms21:1 Lord, the king is happy, because you help him with your great strength. You have helped him to win against his enemies, so he is very happy." 
Psalms21:2 You have given to him all the things that he really wanted. When he asked for them, you have not refused to give them to him." 
Psalms21:3 You came to him, and you blessed him with many good things: You put a crown on his head. It was made from the best gold." 
Psalms21:4 He asked you to keep his life safe, and you gave him a long life. His descendants will continue for ever." 
Psalms21:5 People praise him, because you have helped him to win against his enemies. You have caused him to rule as a great king." 
Psalms21:6 You will continue to bless him for ever. Because you are very near to him, he is very happy." 
Psalms21:7 The king trusts in the Lord. Because of the Most High God's faithful love, the king will never fail." 
Psalms21:8 You will use your great power to take hold of your enemies. You will catch everybody that hates you. 
Psalms21:9 When you come out to fight against them, you will destroy them like a hot fire. The Lord destroys them, because he is angry with them." 
Psalms21:10 You will remove your enemies' children from the earth. They will no longer have any descendants. 
Psalms21:11 They decided to hurt you. They thought how they would do that. But they could not do anything bad against you. 
Psalms21:12 No! You shoot your arrows at them, so that they turn round and they run away!" 
Psalms21:13 Get up, Lord, and show your strength! We will sing to praise you because you have great power." 
Psalms22:1 My God! My God, why have you left me alone? Why is my help far away? I am crying out in great pain!" 
Psalms22:2 My God! I call aloud to you for help every day, all day and all night! But you do not answer my prayers, so I cannot sleep." 
Psalms22:3 I know that you are the Holy God. You sit on your throne as king, and Israel's people praise you." 
Psalms22:4 Our ancestors trusted in you. When they trusted you, you saved them." 
Psalms22:5 They called aloud to you and you saved them. They trusted in you, and they did not become disappointed." 
Psalms22:6 People insult me. They think that I am worth nothing. It seems that I am only a worm, and I am not really a man." 
Psalms22:7 Everyone that sees me laughs at me. They laugh and they shake their heads. 
Psalms22:8 They say, ‘He should trust in the Lord! The Lord should save him. If the Lord is really happy with him, the Lord should rescue him.’" 
Psalms22:9 Lord, you brought me safely to birth. You took care of me at my mother's breasts." 
Psalms22:10 From the day that I was born, I have always been in your care. You have been my God since my mother gave birth to me." 
Psalms22:11 So do not stay far from me now. Trouble is near to me, and there is nobody to help me." 
Psalms22:12 There is danger all around me, like the strong bulls of Bashan. I cannot move because my enemies are very near, all around me." 
Psalms22:13 They open their mouths like lions! They are ready to eat me! They are like lions that tear their food into pieces. 
Psalms22:14 My strength has gone, like water that is poured away. My bones do not join together properly. I feel weak inside and hope has disappeared." 
Psalms22:15 My mouth has become dry like a piece of a broken pot. My tongue sticks to my mouth. You have left me down in the dirt, as good as dead!" 
Psalms22:16 Wicked people are everywhere around me. They are ready to attack me, like a group of wild dogs. They tear apart my hands and my feet." 
Psalms22:17 My body is so weak I can count all my bones. My enemies look at me and they laugh. They are happy because I have pain. 
Psalms22:18 They have taken my clothes, and they choose what they want for themselves. They throw dice to decide who receives each piece." 
Psalms22:19 But Lord, please do not stay far away from me! You can make me strong again. Please hurry to help me!" 
Psalms22:20 Keep me safe! My enemies want to kill me with their swords. Save my life from those wild dogs! 
Psalms22:21 Do not let those lions eat me! Keep me safe from the horns of those wild bulls! I know that you have answered my prayer! 
Psalms22:22 I will tell my people how great you are. I will praise you when we meet together. 
Psalms22:23 Everyone who serves the Lord must praise him! All Jacob's descendants must respect him! Yes, all Israel's people must worship him!" 
Psalms22:24 God did not forget to help the man who was in pain. He did not turn away from the one who suffered. When he called to God for help, God answered his prayer." 
Psalms22:25 Yes, I will praise you, God, in the great meeting of your people. I will give you what I have promised to give. Everyone who serves you, Lord, will see that." 
Psalms22:26 Poor people will have plenty of food to eat. Those who come to the Lord will praise him. May God help you to live well for ever! 
Psalms22:27 People everywhere in the world will respect the Lord. They will turn to him for help. Families from all nations will worship you. 
Psalms22:28 The Lord rules as king over all the nations. 
Psalms22:29 All the rich people on earth will bend down, and they will worship God. Everyone will die one day. They must all bend down in front of God. Nobody can keep himself alive." 
Psalms22:30 Our children will also serve God. And they will tell their children about our Lord God. 
Psalms22:31 They will speak about all the great things that God has done to save his people. People who have not yet been born will learn about the things that God has done. 
Psalms23:1 The Lord takes care of me, like a shepherd with his sheep. I have everything that I need." 
Psalms23:2 He takes me to green fields where I can rest. He leads me to streams of water where I can drink. 
Psalms23:3 He gives me new strength in my life. He is my guide to the right paths. He does this to give honour to his name. 
Psalms23:4 I may walk through a valley that is as dark as death, but I will not be afraid of any danger. This is because you are with me, Lord. Your stick and your shepherd's pole protect me from danger." 
Psalms23:5 You prepare a feast for me while my enemies watch. You put olive oil on my head. You bless me so much that my cup is completely full. 
Psalms23:6 I am sure that you will always be good to me. You will love me all the days of my life. That will never change. I will always live in the Lord 's house. 
Psalms24:1 The whole earth belongs to the Lord. Everybody who lives in the world and all the things in it belong to him. 
Psalms24:2 The Lord built the foundation of the earth. He built it on the seas and the rivers. 
Psalms24:3 Who may climb up the hill of the Lord? Who can stand in his holy place? 
Psalms24:4 Only the person who does what is right, and who has pure thoughts. He does not worship idols and he does not make false promises." 
Psalms24:5 The Lord will bless people who are like that. The Lord God will save them. He will say that they are not guilty of wrong things. 
Psalms24:6 People like that come to God. They want to please him. They like to pray to the God of Jacob. 
Psalms24:7 Old gates of the city, wake up! Open now, to leave a wide path! Then the great king of glory will come in." 
Psalms24:8 Who is this great king of glory? He is the Lord, who is strong and powerful. He is the Lord, who wins against his enemies." 
Psalms24:9 Be ready, you old gates of the city! Be ready to open wide! Then the great king of glory will come in." 
Psalms24:10 Who is this great king? He is the Almighty Lord. Yes, he is the great king of glory!" 
Psalms25:1 Lord, I offer myself to you." 
Psalms25:2 I trust in you, my God. Please do not let me be ashamed. Do not let my enemies laugh at me, because they are stronger than me." 
Psalms25:3 Surely nobody who trusts in you will become ashamed. But those who like to deceive others will become ashamed. 
Psalms25:4 Lord, help me to understand your ways. Teach me your good paths." 
Psalms25:5 Please be my guide and teach me your truth. I trust you every day, because you are the God who keeps me safe." 
Psalms25:6 Lord, please be kind to me and show me your faithful love. From long ago you have always been like that." 
Psalms25:7 Do not punish me for the sins that I did long ago. When I was young, I turned against you. Please be kind to me, because of your faithful love!" 
Psalms25:8 The Lord is good and he does what is right. Because of that, he teaches sinners the right way to live." 
Psalms25:9 He is a guide for humble people, so that they know what is right. He teaches them to follow his way." 
Psalms25:10 The Lord is kind to his people in everything that he does. He shows his faithful love to those who obey the rules of his covenant. 
Psalms25:11 Lord, my sins are very many. Please forgive me, and show that your name is great." 
Psalms25:12 If people respect the Lord, the Lord will show them the right way to live." 
Psalms25:13 People like that will enjoy a good life. The land will belong to their descendants. 
Psalms25:14 The Lord is a guide for those who serve him. He teaches them to obey his covenant. 
Psalms25:15 I always look to the Lord for help. He will keep me safe from my enemies, so that their traps do not catch me." 
Psalms25:16 Please turn towards me, Lord, and be kind to me. I feel very weak and lonely." 
Psalms25:17 I worry a lot about my troubles. Please rescue me from them! 
Psalms25:18 Look at all my pain! See how I am suffering! Forgive me for all my sins. 
Psalms25:19 Look at all my enemies! There are very many of them! They hate me so much that they want to hurt me. 
Psalms25:20 Keep my life safe and take care of me. I have come to you to keep me safe, so do not let me be ashamed." 
Psalms25:21 I trust you to save me. Please take care of me, because I am honest and good." 
Psalms25:22 God, save Israel's people from all their troubles!" 
Psalms26:1 Lord, I always try to do what is right. I continue to trust you all the time. So please show that I am not guilty of wrong things." 
Psalms26:2 Test me, Lord, and see how I have lived. Look into my mind and see my thoughts." 
Psalms26:3 I always know that I can trust you, because of your faithful love. So I live to please you." 
Psalms26:4 I do not become a friend of people who tell lies. I do not join together with hypocrites. 
Psalms26:5 I keep away from any crowd of evil people. I do not become a friend of wicked people. 
Psalms26:6 I wash my hands as a sign that I live in a pure way. I will worship you at your altar, Lord." 
Psalms26:7 I will sing aloud to thank you. I will tell people about all the great things that you have done. 
Psalms26:8 Lord, I love the temple that is your house. It is the place where we clearly see your glory." 
Psalms26:9 Do not take away my life, as you do with sinners. Do not punish me with death, as you do with murderers." 
Psalms26:10 Those wicked people are always ready to do evil things. They use bribes to get what they want. 
Psalms26:11 But I always try to do what is right. Please save me and be kind to me! 
Psalms26:12 Now I stand in a safe place. I will praise the Lord when his people meet together to worship him. 
Psalms27:1 The Lord gives me light in my life and he makes me safe. So I am not afraid of anyone! The Lord takes care of my life. Nobody can make me afraid! 
Psalms27:2 Evil men are ready to attack me. They want to destroy my body. But when my enemies attack me, they trip and fall to the ground!" 
Psalms27:3 Even if a whole army comes to fight against me, I will not be afraid. Even if they attack me in war, I will continue to trust God." 
Psalms27:4 There is one thing that I have asked the Lord to do for me. This is the one thing that I really want: I want to live in the Lord 's house all the days of my life. Then I will clearly see the Lord 's beauty. I will pray to him in his temple. 
Psalms27:5 When danger is near, the Lord will keep me safe. He will take care of me in his home. He will put me in a safe place, on the top of a high rock." 
Psalms27:6 My enemies may be all around me, but I will win against them. They will see how strong I am! I will offer sacrifices to the Lord in his temple. I will be so happy that I will shout aloud! Yes, I will sing to praise the Lord." 
Psalms27:7 Lord, hear me when I call to you for help. Be kind to me and answer me." 
Psalms27:8 I have heard you say to me, ‘Come near to me.’ So I will come and pray to you, Lord." 
Psalms27:9 Please do not turn away from me. I am your servant, so do not be angry with me. You have always helped me in the past, so do not push me away now. You are the one who saves me, God, so do not turn away from me." 
Psalms27:10 Even if my father and my mother leave me, the Lord will still take care of me." 
Psalms27:11 Lord, please teach me to follow your way. Lead me along a good, safe path, because my enemies are waiting to attack me." 
Psalms27:12 Do not give me to my enemies. They say false things against me, so that they can destroy me." 
Psalms27:13 But I surely believe that I will see how good the Lord is! I will know his love while I still live in this world. 
Psalms27:14 Wait for the Lord to help you! Be strong and brave. Yes, wait for the Lord to help you!" 
Psalms28:1 Lord, I am calling to you for help. You are my safe place, like a high rock. Please do not refuse to listen to me. If you do not answer me, I will be like those people who are going down into the deep hole of death." 
Psalms28:2 Hear me when I call to you for help. Please be kind to me. I am lifting up my hands towards your Most Holy Place. 
Psalms28:3 Do not pull me away to punishment, as you do with wicked people. Those people do evil things. They say kind words to their friends, but really they want to hurt them." 
Psalms28:4 Punish them for their sins. Give back to them what they deserve! Yes, punish them! That is the fair thing to do." 
Psalms28:5 They do not want to understand the things that the Lord has done, or the things that he has made. The Lord will punish them, and he will remove them for ever." 
Psalms28:6 We should praise the Lord! He has been kind to me, when I called to him for help." 
Psalms28:7 The Lord makes me strong. He keeps me safe like a shield. I trust in him completely, and he has helped me. I am very happy, and I will thank him with my songs." 
Psalms28:8 The Lord makes his people strong. He protects the king that he has chosen. The Lord keeps him safe. 
Psalms28:9 Lord, save your people! Bless the people who belong to you! Take care of your people like a shepherd. Always carry them in your arms!" 
Psalms29:1 All you angels in heaven, say how great the Lord is! Say that the Lord rules with power!" 
Psalms29:2 Say that the Lord 's name is great! Worship the Lord for who he is, and remember that he is holy." 
Psalms29:3 The voice of the Lord shouts over the water. The God of glory makes the noise of thunder. The Lord appears over the great sea. 
Psalms29:4 The Lord 's voice is powerful. It has the authority of a king! 
Psalms29:5 When the Lord shouts, even the cedar trees break! Yes! The Lord breaks the great cedar trees of Lebanon." 
Psalms29:6 He makes Lebanon jump like a calf. He causes Mount Hermon to shake like a young bull jumps. 
Psalms29:7 The Lord 's voice makes fire like lightning in the sky. 
Psalms29:8 When the Lord shouts, the desert shakes! He makes the Kadesh desert shake!" 
Psalms29:9 When the Lord shouts, the big oak trees bend over. The leaves fall off all the trees in the forests. But in his temple, everyone says, ‘He is great!’" 
Psalms29:10 The Lord rules as king over the deep waters. The Lord will be king for ever. 
Psalms29:11 The Lord makes his people strong. The Lord blesses his people with peace. 
Psalms30:1 Lord, I will praise you, because you have saved me from death. You have not let my enemies laugh at me." 
Psalms30:2 Lord, my God, I called to you for help, and you have made me well again." 
Psalms30:3 Lord, you pulled me up out of the deep hole of death. You saved me from among those who are going into the grave." 
Psalms30:4 Sing to the Lord, you people who trust him. Praise his holy name." 
Psalms30:5 His anger continues only for a moment, but he is kind to us for our whole life. We may be sad all through the night, but in the morning, we will be happy again." 
Psalms30:6 When I was feeling safe and strong, I thought, ‘Nothing can ever destroy me.’" 
Psalms30:7 But Lord, it was you who made me safe and strong, because you are so kind. But then you turned away from me, and I became very afraid." 
Psalms30:8 I called to you for help, Lord. I asked you to be kind to me, my Lord." 
Psalms30:9 If I go down into the deep hole of death, that will not help you! My dead body cannot praise you there! It cannot tell people to trust you!" 
Psalms30:10 Lord, please listen to me! Please be kind to me! Lord, please be my helper!" 
Psalms30:11 Now you have helped me to stop crying, so that I dance instead! I do not need to wear sackcloth, because I am no longer sad. Instead, you have made me very happy." 
Psalms30:12 So I am truly happy and I will sing to praise you. I cannot stay quiet! Lord, my God, I will continue to thank you for ever." 
Psalms31:1 Lord, I have come to you to keep me safe. Never let me become ashamed. You always do what is right so please save me!" 
Psalms31:2 Listen to me, and quickly send help to me. Lord, be a rock where I can hide. Be a strong place to keep me safe." 
Psalms31:3 You are my high rock and my strong place. Because of your good name, lead me and be my guide." 
Psalms31:4 You are the place where I can hide, so keep me safe. Do not let my enemies' traps catch me." 
Psalms31:5 I put my life into your hands. I know that you will save me, Lord, because you are a God that I can trust." 
Psalms31:6 I hate people who worship useless idols. As for me, I trust in the Lord." 
Psalms31:7 I am very happy because of your faithful love. You see when I suffer. You know when I am very upset. 
Psalms31:8 You have not put me under the power of my enemies. You have led me into an open place, where I can be safe." 
Psalms31:9 Lord, I am very upset, so please be kind to me. My eyes are tired because I weep so much. My whole body has become very weak." 
Psalms31:10 I am near to death, because I am so sad. I am crying with pain as my life comes to an end. I have so much trouble that I have no strength at all. Even my bones have become weak." 
Psalms31:11 All my enemies hate me. My friends insult me. Everyone who knows me is afraid of me. They run away when they see me in the street. 
Psalms31:12 Everybody has forgotten about me. I might as well be dead! They think that I am useless, like a broken plate." 
Psalms31:13 I hear what many people are saying against me. News from everywhere makes me afraid. They are deciding together how to kill me. 
Psalms31:14 But I continue to trust you, Lord. I say, ‘You are my God!’" 
Psalms31:15 You are the one who decides what will happen to me in my whole life. Save me from the power of my enemies and from the people who want to catch me. 
Psalms31:16 Turn towards me, your servant, and be kind to me! Keep me safe, because of your faithful love." 
Psalms31:17 Lord, do not let me become ashamed. I call to you for help. Cause evil people to become ashamed. Let them go to their graves and be silent there!" 
Psalms31:18 May people that tell lies become silent. They insult righteous people. They are proud people, and they boast about themselves." 
Psalms31:19 You have prepared many good things to bless people who respect you. While everyone watches, you bless those who come to you for help." 
Psalms31:20 You give them a place to hide, and you keep them safe with you. When their enemies want to attack them, you take care of them. When their enemies speak lies against them, they are safe with you." 
Psalms31:21 Praise the Lord! When my enemies were all around me, he showed me that his faithful love is very great." 
Psalms31:22 When I was afraid, I said, ‘God is no longer with me!’ But I spoke too soon. When I called to you for help, you heard me and you answered me." 
Psalms31:23 Love the Lord, all you people who belong to him! If people serve the Lord faithfully, he keeps them safe. But if people are proud, he punishes them as they deserve." 
Psalms31:24 All you people who trust the Lord to help you, you should be strong and very brave!" 
Psalms32:1 When God has forgiven a person's sins, they are truly happy! They may have turned against God, but when God forgives them, they are happy." 
Psalms32:2 They may have done something bad, but when the Lord says, ‘Not guilty!’, he has truly blessed them. They are happy because they no longer try to hide their sins." 
Psalms32:3 When I said nothing to God about my sins, my whole body became weak. I cried all the time because of the pain." 
Psalms32:4 In the day and in the night, you punished me very much. It seemed as if the hot sun was taking away my strength." 
Psalms32:5 Then I told you about my sins. I did not try to hide the bad things that I had done. I said, ‘I will tell the Lord about the things that I have done against him.’ When I did that, you forgave my sins." 
Psalms32:6 Because of this, all your own people should pray to you. They should pray while they still have the chance. Then, when danger comes to them like a river of deep water, they will still be safe." 
Psalms32:7 Yes, Lord, you are a place where I can hide. You will keep me safe from trouble. I will hear happy songs around me, because you save your people from danger." 
Psalms32:8 The Lord says, ‘I will teach you the right way to live. I will be your guide and I will take care of you." 
Psalms32:9 Do not be like a silly horse, or a mule. You have to use a rope to show them which way to go. Without that, they will not obey you.’" 
Psalms32:10 Wicked people will receive a lot of trouble and pain. But if anyone trusts in the Lord, they will know that God always loves them." 
Psalms32:11 So all you people who belong to the Lord, praise him and be happy! All of you who are good, honest people, shout aloud because you are so happy!" 
Psalms33:1 You righteous people, sing to praise the Lord and be happy! It is right for good, honest people to do that." 
Psalms33:2 Pick up your harp and praise the Lord! Make music for him with a lyre that has ten strings. 
Psalms33:3 Sing to him a new song! Make beautiful music, as you sing aloud to praise him." 
Psalms33:4 Yes! The Lord 's message is true. We can always trust him to do what is right. 
Psalms33:5 He loves everything that is right and fair. The world is full of his faithful love. 
Psalms33:6 The word of the Lord made the heavens. When he spoke, all the stars in the sky appeared." 
Psalms33:7 He put the water of the sea together in a heap. He made the deep seas stay in their right places. 
Psalms33:8 Everyone who lives on the earth should respect the Lord. They should bend down to worship him. 
Psalms33:9 The Lord spoke, and the world began! He spoke his command, and everything became fixed in its place." 
Psalms33:10 Nations decide what they want to do, but the Lord causes their plans to be useless." 
Psalms33:11 But whatever the Lord decides to do will always happen. His thoughts will not change from one century to the next. 
Psalms33:12 The Lord blesses the nation that has him as their God. He has chosen them to belong to him, as his own special people." 
Psalms33:13 The Lord looks down from heaven. He sees every man, woman and child." 
Psalms33:14 From the place where he lives, he watches everyone who lives on the earth." 
Psalms33:15 He made each person and all their thoughts. He knows everything that they do. 
Psalms33:16 A great army will not save their king. A soldier does not stay alive because he is strong. 
Psalms33:17 In war, do not hope that even a strong horse will help you to win. You cannot trust it to save you." 
Psalms33:18 Remember, the Lord takes care of people who respect him. Those people trust him for his faithful love." 
Psalms33:19 They trust him to keep them safe from death, and to keep them alive during a time of famine." 
Psalms33:20 Yes! We will trust the Lord to come and help us. He is our helper who keeps us safe, like a soldier's shield." 
Psalms33:21 We are happy because he loves us. We trust in his holy name. 
Psalms33:22 Lord, help us to know your faithful love, because we are trusting in you." 
Psalms34:1 I will always praise the Lord. All the time I will sing to praise him. 
Psalms34:2 I will boast that the Lord is great! I want weak people to hear that. I want them to be happy! 
Psalms34:3 Join with me to tell people that the Lord is great! Together we will make his name famous. 
Psalms34:4 I asked the Lord to help me, and he answered me. He saved me from everything that made me afraid." 
Psalms34:5 People who trust the Lord to help them will be very happy. Their faces will be bright, and they will not be ashamed." 
Psalms34:6 I was weak and helpless, so I called out to the Lord. The Lord heard me. He saved me from all my troubles." 
Psalms34:7 The Lord 's angel is very near to people who respect and obey the Lord. He keeps them safe from danger. 
Psalms34:8 Taste and see that the Lord is good! God blesses people who turn to him to keep them safe. 
Psalms34:9 All you people who belong to the Lord, continue to obey him. People who respect the Lord will have the things that they need." 
Psalms34:10 Even young lions may become hungry because they have no food to eat. But people who trust the Lord for help will receive every good thing that they need. 
Psalms34:11 Children, come and listen to me! I will teach you how to respect the Lord." 
Psalms34:12 Do you want to live a good life? Do you want your life to be long and happy? 
Psalms34:13 If so, do not speak any evil words. Do not tell lies to deceive people." 
Psalms34:14 Do good things instead of evil things. Try to bring peace into people's lives. 
Psalms34:15 The Lord watches over righteous people. He hears them when they call to him for help. 
Psalms34:16 But the Lord turns against people who do evil things. He causes everybody to forget that they ever lived. 
Psalms34:17 The Lord hears his righteous people when they call for help. He saves them from all their troubles. 
Psalms34:18 When people are upset, the Lord is near to them. He saves those who feel very weak and upset." 
Psalms34:19 Righteous people may often have troubles, but the Lord saves them from every danger." 
Psalms34:20 The Lord keeps them safe. Not even one of their bones is broken! 
Psalms34:21 Evil things will return to kill wicked people. Whoever hates God's own people will receive punishment. 
Psalms34:22 The Lord saves the lives of his servants. Everyone who trusts the Lord to keep them safe will not receive punishment as a guilty person. 
Psalms35:1 Lord, please attack those people who are attacking me. Fight against those people who are fighting against me." 
Psalms35:2 Yes, pick up your shield and put on your armour! Prepare to fight and give me help!" 
Psalms35:3 Take your spears and throw them, to stop the people who are chasing me. Say to me, ‘I will make you safe.’" 
Psalms35:4 Cause the people who want to kill me to become ashamed. Chase away the people who want to hurt me, so that they become confused." 
Psalms35:5 Make them become like chaff that the wind blows away. Send the angel of the to chase them away. 
Psalms35:6 Make their way dark and dangerous, as the angel of the Lord chases after them." 
Psalms35:7 They hid a trap to catch me. There was no reason for them to do that. They even dug a deep hole for me to fall into. 
Psalms35:8 Surprise my enemies and destroy them! Let their own traps catch them! Let them fall to their own death! 
Psalms35:9 Then I will be happy because of what the Lord has done. I will be happy because he has made me safe. 
Psalms35:10 I will shout with all my strength, ‘ Lord, who is like you? When strong people try to hurt weak people, you are the one who keeps the weak people safe. You also keep poor people safe when robbers try to take things from them.’" 
Psalms35:11 Cruel people tell lies against me in court. I do not even know what they are talking about. 
Psalms35:12 When I do good things to help them, they pay me back with evil things! That makes me feel very sad and upset." 
Psalms35:13 When they were ill, I wore sackcloth and I stopped eating food. I bent down my head as I prayed for them." 
Psalms35:14 I wept as I prayed, as I would weep when a friend or my mother had died." 
Psalms35:15 But when I had troubles myself, they were happy. They stood together and they laughed at me. Even strangers attacked me and they would not stop." 
Psalms35:16 Useless people like that insulted me, and they showed their teeth to frighten me." 
Psalms35:17 My Lord, how long will you continue to watch as they do this to me? Keep me safe when they attack me. They attack me like hungry lions. Do not let them kill me!" 
Psalms35:18 Then I will praise you in the great meeting of your people. I will thank you so that everyone hears me. 
Psalms35:19 My enemies tell lies about me. Do not let them win against me and be happy. They have no reason to hate me, so do not let them laugh at me." 
Psalms35:20 They do not talk in a way that brings peace. Instead, they try to deceive people who want to live quietly." 
Psalms35:21 They open their mouths wide to speak against me. They say, ‘Aha! We have seen the bad things that you do!’" 
Psalms35:22 Lord, you have seen all this. Do not remain silent, my Lord. Do not stay far away from me." 
Psalms35:23 Wake up! Get ready to give me justice! Show that I am not guilty, my Lord and my God." 
Psalms35:24 Lord, you are righteous. Give me justice, my God. Do not let them laugh at me." 
Psalms35:25 Do not let them say, ‘Aha! This is what we wanted.’ Do not let them say, ‘We have eaten him alive!’" 
Psalms35:26 Punish those people who are happy when I have troubles. Make them ashamed and confused! Bring down those proud people who laugh at me. Make them feel very ashamed. 
Psalms35:27 But for those who want justice for me, let them shout aloud in their pleasure. May they always say, ‘The Lord is great! He is happy when his servant is safe and well!’" 
Psalms35:28 Then I will tell everyone that you are righteous. I will praise you all the time. 
Psalms36:1 A wicked person turns against God completely. He does not respect God. 
Psalms36:2 He is too proud to think about his sin, so he does not hate it." 
Psalms36:3 He speaks wicked things to deceive people. He does nothing that is wise or good. 
Psalms36:4 While he lies on his bed at night, he thinks about bad things that he can do. He lives only to do things that are not good. He does not turn away from evil things." 
Psalms36:5 Lord your faithful love reaches as high as the sky. People can trust you beyond the clouds. 
Psalms36:6 Your justice is like the strongest mountains. You always do what is right, as sure as the seas are deep. You take care of people and animals and you keep them safe." 
Psalms36:7 God, your faithful love has great value! You keep all humans safe, like birds protect their babies under their wings." 
Psalms36:8 You have plenty of food in your house, to give them all that they need. You give them water from your river, that makes them happy when they drink it." 
Psalms36:9 Yes, you are the one who gives us light and life." 
Psalms36:10 Continue to love those who serve you as your people. Let good, honest people receive your justice." 
Psalms36:11 Do not let proud people hurt me. Do not let evil people chase me away from home. 
Psalms36:12 Now I see that those wicked people have fallen down! They are lying there on the ground, and they cannot get up again!" 
Psalms37:1 Do not become upset because of what wicked people do. Do not be jealous of people that do bad things. 
Psalms37:2 Remember that they are soon gone! They are like grass that quickly becomes dry. They will soon die like green plants in hot weather. 
Psalms37:3 Trust in the Lord and do good things. Then you will live safely in the land. 
Psalms37:4 Be happy that the Lord is your friend. He will give you what you most want. 
Psalms37:5 Let the Lord be your guide into the future. Trust in him and he will help you. 
Psalms37:6 He will show everyone that you are righteous, as clear as the light at dawn. People will know that you are a good person, as clearly as the sun shines at noon." 
Psalms37:7 Be patient as you wait for the Lord to help you. Trust him to bring help. Do not become upset when bad people seem to do well, when their wicked ideas really happen." 
Psalms37:8 Do not become angry or upset! It will only bring trouble for you. 
Psalms37:9 Wicked people will disappear one day! But people who trust the Lord for help will live safely in the land that he has given to them. 
Psalms37:10 Evil people will soon be gone. You may look for them, but you will not find them." 
Psalms37:11 Humble people will live safely in the land. They will live in peace and they will enjoy good things. 
Psalms37:12 Wicked people think about how to hurt righteous people. They show their teeth to frighten good people. 
Psalms37:13 But the Lord God laughs at those wicked people, because he knows that their day of punishment will come." 
Psalms37:14 Wicked people get out their swords, and they prepare to shoot their arrows. They try to make poor and helpless people fall down. They try to destroy people who do what is right." 
Psalms37:15 But their swords will go into their own hearts. Their bows will break in pieces. 
Psalms37:16 It is better to do what is right and only have a few things, than to be wicked and have many things." 
Psalms37:17 The Lord keeps righteous people safe, but he will destroy the power of wicked people." 
Psalms37:18 If anyone lives a completely good life, the Lord takes care of them. His gifts to them will last for ever." 
Psalms37:19 When times of trouble come, they will still be safe. In a time of famine, they will have enough to eat." 
Psalms37:20 But wicked people will die. They are the Lord 's enemies. They will disappear like smoke from a fire that burns them up. 
Psalms37:21 If you lend money to a wicked person, he will not give it back to you. But righteous people are kind to others and they give things freely." 
Psalms37:22 Yes, people that the Lord blesses will live safely in the land. But people that he has cursed will disappear." 
Psalms37:23 If the way that somebody lives pleases the Lord, the Lord will lead him into good things." 
Psalms37:24 Even if that person trips, he will not fall. The Lord will hold his hand." 
Psalms37:25 I was young once and now I am old. But in all my life, I have never seen any good man that God has left alone. I have not seen his children so hungry that they ask people for food." 
Psalms37:26 Good people are always kind. They lend things to other people. Their children also bring God's blessing. 
Psalms37:27 Turn away from evil things! Do what is right! Then you will live safely in the land for ever. 
Psalms37:28 The Lord loves justice. He will never leave those who serve him. He will take care of them for ever, but he will remove the children of wicked people." 
Psalms37:29 God's righteous people will take the land for themselves. They will live there for ever. 
Psalms37:30 Righteous people speak wise words. What they say brings justice. 
Psalms37:31 They think about God's Law all the time, so that they do not make mistakes." 
Psalms37:32 Evil people wait for a chance to kill righteous people. 
Psalms37:33 But the Lord will not leave his righteous people, so that their enemies have power over them. When evil people accuse them, the Lord will show that they are not guilty." 
Psalms37:34 Be patient and continue to trust the Lord. Obey his commands. Then he will give you honour, so that you live safely in the land. You will see that the Lord destroys wicked people." 
Psalms37:35 I have seen cruel, wicked people become very powerful, like trees that grow well in good soil." 
Psalms37:36 But soon after that, I see that they have disappeared! I looked for them, but I could not find them anywhere." 
Psalms37:37 Think about people who are honest and who do what is right. Those who help people to live in peace will live to enjoy their children. 
Psalms37:38 But God will destroy people that turn against him. Evil people will not have descendants. 
Psalms37:39 The Lord will make righteous people safe. He will take care of them in times of trouble. 
Psalms37:40 The Lord helps them. He saves them from wicked people. He keeps them safe because they turn to him for help. 
Psalms38:1 Lord, when you are angry, please do not punish me." 
Psalms38:2 You have shot your arrows deep into me. Your hand has pushed me down to the ground. 
Psalms38:3 Your punishment has made my whole body ill. My health has gone, because of my sin." 
Psalms38:4 My sin is too much for me! It is like a heavy weight, that I cannot carry." 
Psalms38:5 My wounds make a bad smell, and they get worse. This is because I have done stupid things." 
Psalms38:6 My body is bent down to the ground. Every day I weep because I am so sad. 
Psalms38:7 My body is hot with fever. I am very ill. 
Psalms38:8 The pain has made me tired and weak. I am so upset that I cry aloud. 
Psalms38:9 My Lord, you already know what I want most. You hear me when I cry with pain." 
Psalms38:10 My heart beats very fast, and my strength is leaving me. Even my eyes can no longer see properly." 
Psalms38:11 My family and my friends stay away from me, because of my illness. They do not come near to me." 
Psalms38:12 My enemies prepare traps, because they want to kill me. They talk about ways to destroy me. They want to hurt me, so they talk about that all through the day." 
Psalms38:13 But I am like a deaf man who hears nothing. I am like a dumb man who says nothing. 
Psalms38:14 So I live like a man who cannot hear what people say. I refuse to argue against them. 
Psalms38:15 Yes, Lord, I wait for you to help me! I believe that you will answer me, my Lord and my God." 
Psalms38:16 I have prayed that my enemies will not laugh at me. If I slip and fall down, they will be very happy!" 
Psalms38:17 I will soon fall down to the ground. I have nothing but pain all the time. 
Psalms38:18 But I agree that I have done wrong things. I am sorry about my sins. 
Psalms38:19 I have many enemies and they are strong. They have no reason to hate me. 
Psalms38:20 When I do good things, they do evil things to me in return! I try to do what is right, but they turn against me." 
Psalms38:21 Lord, please do not leave me alone. Do not stay far away from me, my God!" 
Psalms38:22 My Lord God, you are the one who can save me. Please come quickly to help me!" 
Psalms39:1 I said, ‘I will be careful what I do, so that I do not sin. I will also be careful what I say. When wicked people are listening, I will not even open my mouth.’" 
Psalms39:2 So I did not speak a word, even about good things. That made me very upset." 
Psalms39:3 It was like a fire inside me! As I thought more about it, I just had to say something! So I said this:" 
Psalms39:4 ‘ Lord, tell me about my life. Tell me how long it will be, and when it will finish. I need to remember that life is only short." 
Psalms39:5 Yes, you have made the days of my life only a few! The time that I live seems very short to you. Human life is only a breath, even for those who seem to be strong." 
Psalms39:6 As we live, we are just like shadows. We work to get things for ourselves. We may get a lot of money, but we do not know who will have it after we die.’" 
Psalms39:7 So, Lord God, what help can I hope to get? You are the only one that I can really trust!" 
Psalms39:8 Save me from all my sins! Do not let fools insult me. 
Psalms39:9 I will not say anything more. I will not open my mouth, because it is you who have punished me!" 
Psalms39:10 Please do not hurt me any more! You have already punished me enough, so that I am almost dead!" 
Psalms39:11 When people do wrong things, you warn them and you punish them. You destroy their valuable things, like a moth eats cloth! Yes, our lives are only a breath!" 
Psalms39:12 Lord, please hear my prayer. Listen to me when I call to you for help. Do not turn away from me when I weep. I need your help, like a foreign person who lives away from his home. I live on earth as a stranger, as all my ancestors did." 
Psalms39:13 Stop being angry with me, so that I can be happy again before I die." 
Psalms40:1 I was patient while I waited for the Lord to help me. He turned towards me, and he heard me when I called to him." 
Psalms40:2 He lifted me out of the deep hole of danger. He picked me up out of the mud. He put my feet on a rock. Then I could walk and not slip. 
Psalms40:3 He gave me a new song to sing. It was a song to praise our God. Many people will see what God has done to help me. Then they will respect and obey him. Yes, they will trust in the Lord." 
Psalms40:4 If anyone trusts in the Lord he blesses them! They do not ask proud people to help them. They do not join with those people who worship false gods. 
Psalms40:5 Lord, my God, you have done many great things. You have done so many things for us that we cannot count them! There is nobody else like you! I want to talk about the things that you have done, but there are too many things to speak about!" 
Psalms40:6 You do not really want sacrifices and offerings. I understand that! You do not ask for burnt offerings or sin offerings. 
Psalms40:7 Then I said, ‘Here I am, my God! The message that is written in the book tells me what I must do." 
Psalms40:8 I want to do what pleases you. Your Law is always in my thoughts.’ 
Psalms40:9 In the great meeting of your people, I have told them about your justice. I cannot keep quiet! You know that this is true, Lord." 
Psalms40:10 I have not hidden the good news about your justice. I have told everyone that they can trust you, and that you have the power to save. I tell the great meeting of your people about your faithful love." 
Psalms40:11 You, Lord, will continue to be kind to me. Please continue to keep me safe, because of your faithful love." 
Psalms40:12 There are many dangerous troubles all around me. They are too many to count! My sins are too strong for me. They are more than all the hairs on my head! So I am weak and I cannot see clearly. 
Psalms40:13 Lord, please save me! Lord, come quickly to help me!" 
Psalms40:14 Chase away the people who want to kill me! Cause them to become ashamed and confused. Chase away the people who want to hurt me, so that they run away in shame." 
Psalms40:15 When people laugh at me, make them sorry for what they have done." 
Psalms40:16 Lord, may those who come to you be very happy, because you have saved them. They should never stop saying, ‘ Praise the Lord!’" 
Psalms40:17 But I am poor and weak, my Lord. Please continue to think about me. You are the one who helps me and who saves me. My God, come quickly to help me!" 
Psalms41:1 If someone is kind to poor people, God blesses him. When he is in trouble, the Lord rescues him." 
Psalms41:2 The Lord keeps him safe. The Lord saves his life! God causes him to be happy here in the land where he lives. The Lord will not put him under the power of his enemies. 
Psalms41:3 The Lord takes care of him when he is ill in bed. Whenever he is ill, you will make him completely well again." 
Psalms41:4 I said, ‘ Lord be kind to me and forgive me. I have done wrong things against you, but please make me well again.’" 
Psalms41:5 My enemies say cruel things about me. They say, ‘Surely he must die soon! Then everyone will forget about him.’" 
Psalms41:6 When they come to see me, they say that they are my friends. But they think of ways to make me ashamed. When they leave, they tell everyone bad things about me." 
Psalms41:7 All the people who hate me insult me to other people. My enemies make plans to hurt me. 
Psalms41:8 They say, ‘He has a dangerous disease. He will never get up from his bed.’" 
Psalms41:9 Even my special friend has turned against me. He was someone that I trusted. I often ate food with him in my home. 
Psalms41:10 But you, Lord, please be kind to me. Raise me up to be well again. Then I can punish my enemies as they have punished me." 
Psalms41:11 They have not won against me, so I know that you are pleased with me!" 
Psalms41:12 You continue to help me because I do what is right. You will let me stay near to you for ever. 
Psalms41:13 Let us all praise the Lord, who is Israel's great God! Yes, praise him now and for ever! Amen! Amen!" 
Psalms42:1 God, I need you so much! I look for you, as a thirsty deer looks for streams of water." 
Psalms42:2 Deep down inside me, I am very thirsty! You are the God who lives for ever, and I need life from you! When will I be able to come near to you and see you face to face?" 
Psalms42:3 All day and all night I weep. My tears are my only food! My enemies say to me all the time, ‘Where is your God?’" 
Psalms42:4 When I remember how my life was before, I am very upset and I weep. Once I walked with a big crowd of people to worship God in his temple. I led the people there as we sang happy songs, and we praised God with loud voices." 
Psalms42:5 Now I ask myself, ‘Why am I so sad and upset?’ I must wait patiently for God to help me. Then I will praise my God once again, because he is the one who saves me." 
Psalms42:6 Deep inside me I am very sad. So I will turn to you, my God, from where I am. I will pray to you from Mount Hermon where the Jordan River begins, and from Mount Mizar." 
Psalms42:7 I hear your waterfalls make a noise like thunder. It seems like all that water is pouring over me and it knocks me down to the ground. 
Psalms42:8 Each day, the Lord shows me that he loves me with his faithful love. Each night he gives me a song to sing, as I pray to the God who lives for ever." 
Psalms42:9 I say to God, who is my high rock, ‘Why have you forgotten me? Why must I be so sad? How much longer must I continue to weep, because my enemies do cruel things to me?’" 
Psalms42:10 My enemies laugh at me all the time. It is like they are breaking all my bones. They are always saying, ‘Where is your God?’" 
Psalms42:11 I ask myself again, ‘Why am I so sad and upset?’ I must wait patiently for God to help me. Then I will praise my God once again, because he is the one who saves me." 
Psalms43:1 My God, show that I am not guilty. Make the people who do not respect you know that I am right. Rescue me from the evil people who tell lies about me." 
Psalms43:2 God, you are the safe place where I can hide. Why have you pushed me away? How much longer must I continue to weep, because my enemies do cruel things to me?" 
Psalms43:3 Send me your light and your truth. Let them be my guide. They will take me back to your holy mountain and to the house where you live. 
Psalms43:4 Then I will go to your altar, to worship you, the God who makes me happy. You are my God and I will praise you there. I will sing to thank you, God, with my harp." 
Psalms43:5 I ask myself, ‘Why am I so sad and upset?’ I must wait patiently for God to help me. Then I will praise my God once again, because he is the one who saves me." 
Psalms44:1 God, we have heard it for ourselves. Our ancestors told us what you did for them a long time ago." 
Psalms44:2 You used your power to chase away the other nations, so that our ancestors could live in their land. You punished those nations, and you helped our ancestors to be free." 
Psalms44:3 Our ancestors did not get the land by the power of their own swords. Their own strength did not win the fight. It was your own power and strength that did it! You were kind to them because you were their friend. 
Psalms44:4 God, you are my king! You command that Jacob's descendants must win against their enemies." 
Psalms44:5 Because of your power, we can knock down our enemies. Because of your strength, we can beat them down." 
Psalms44:6 I do not trust in my bow and arrows. It is not my sword that has helped me to win the fight. 
Psalms44:7 It is you who rescues us from our enemies. You bring shame on the people that hate us. 
Psalms44:8 Every day, we praise you, God. We will always thank you, all the time, because you are great!" 
Psalms44:9 But now you have turned against us. You have made us ashamed. When our armies go out to fight a battle, you no longer go with us." 
Psalms44:10 You make us run away from our enemies. The people who hate us take from us whatever they like! 
Psalms44:11 You have put us under their power, so that they kill us like sheep for them to eat. You have sent us away to live in foreign countries." 
Psalms44:12 You have sold your own people, for almost nothing! They had no value to you." 
Psalms44:13 The people who live in countries near us do not respect us. They laugh at us and they insult us. 
Psalms44:14 The other nations tell jokes about us. They think that we are nothing. 
Psalms44:15 I feel ashamed all the time. I do not know where to look. 
Psalms44:16 This is because my cruel enemies are always insulting me. All they want is to hurt me. 
Psalms44:17 We have not turned away from you, but all this has happened to us. We have not turned against the covenant that you made with us." 
Psalms44:18 We have continued to serve you and we obey your commands. 
Psalms44:19 But you have broken us in pieces. You have left us for wild dogs to eat. You have covered us with the darkness of death. 
Psalms44:20 We might have turned against you, our God, and worshipped a strange god." 
Psalms44:21 But if we had done that, you would have discovered it. You know even our most secret thoughts." 
Psalms44:22 But, because we are your people, God, people try to kill us all the time. They think that we are like sheep and we are ready to be killed." 
Psalms44:23 Lord God, do something! Why are you sleeping? Wake up! Do not turn away from us for ever!" 
Psalms44:24 Why do you turn away from us? Why do you forget our troubles and the way that people hurt us? 
Psalms44:25 We have fallen down in the dirt. Our bodies are lying on the ground. 
Psalms44:26 Wake up and help us! Save us, because of your faithful love." 
Psalms45:1 This beautiful song makes me feel very happy. I will sing this special poem to the king. My voice is ready to sing it very well, as well as a clever writer can write with a pen." 
Psalms45:2 You are the most handsome man that there is. You speak kind words in a beautiful way. And so God will continue to bless you for ever. 
Psalms45:3 Brave soldier, wear your sword at your side! Show what a great king you are!" 
Psalms45:4 Wear your royal clothes and ride out to win against your enemies! Win the war on behalf of truth and justice! Then your strong right hand will do powerful things! 
Psalms45:5 Your sharp arrows will cut into the heart of your enemies. Nations will fall down under your feet. 
Psalms45:6 God, you will continue to rule as king always and for ever. Your authority as king will bring justice to your people." 
Psalms45:7 You love people to do what is right, and you hate anything that is evil. So God, your God, has chosen you to be greater than all your people. He has put special olive oil on you, to make you happy." 
Psalms45:8 All your clothes have the beautiful smell of myrrh, aloes and cassia. You hear the music of stringed instruments that comes from beautiful palaces. That makes you happy." 
Psalms45:9 The daughters of kings are among your visitors. Your royal bride stands at your right side. She is wearing gold from Ophir. 
Psalms45:10 Royal daughter, listen to me. Listen carefully to what I am saying. Forget your people and your family." 
Psalms45:11 You are very beautiful and the king will want to be with you. He is your master, so respect him." 
Psalms45:12 Rich people will come from Tyre to give gifts to you. They will want you to help them. 
Psalms45:13 The king's bride is in the palace, and she looks beautiful! Her dress has gold threads in it." 
Psalms45:14 Now they lead her to the king in her beautiful clothes. Her young friends follow after her to bring her to the king. 
Psalms45:15 They are very happy as they walk together and they go into the king's palace. 
Psalms45:16 You will have sons to become kings, as your ancestors were kings before you. You will make them princes to rule over all the land." 
Psalms45:17 In future years I will cause people to remember that you are a great king! Then people will praise you always and for ever. 
Psalms46:1 God is a strong place for us, where he will keep us safe. He will always help us when troubles come." 
Psalms46:2 So even when the earth shakes, we will not be afraid. And when the mountains fall down into the deep sea, we will still not be afraid." 
Psalms46:3 If the sea makes dangerous waves, so that even the mountains shake, we will never be afraid." 
Psalms46:4 There is a river that runs into the city of God, and it brings God's blessing to the people there. That is the holy place where the Most High God lives." 
Psalms46:5 God is in that city. Nothing can ever destroy it. When dawn comes, God will be there to help it." 
Psalms46:6 Nations are shouting with anger! Kingdoms shake and fall. God calls in a loud voice, and even the earth melts!" 
Psalms46:7 The Lord Almighty is there to help us. The God of Jacob keeps us safe. 
Psalms46:8 Come and see the great things that the Lord has done. He has brought terrible things to the earth! 
Psalms46:9 All over the world, he causes wars to finish. He destroys the soldiers' bows and spears. He burns their shields in a fire." 
Psalms46:10 He says, ‘Be still and quiet! Understand that I am God. I rule as king over the nations. All the world will say that I am great.’" 
Psalms46:11 The Lord Almighty is there to help us. The God of Jacob keeps us safe. 
Psalms47:1 People from every nation, clap your hands together. Shout aloud to God, with the sound of happy songs." 
Psalms47:2 The Lord, the Most High God, is wonderful. He is the great King who rules over the whole earth." 
Psalms47:3 He has won the battle against our enemies, and those nations are now under our power." 
Psalms47:4 He chose a special land to belong to us. Jacob's descendants are proud of that land. They are his own people that he loves. 
Psalms47:5 God has gone up to sit on his throne, while the people shout aloud. The Lord has gone up there, while the trumpets make a loud noise." 
Psalms47:6 Sing to praise God! Yes, sing! Sing to praise our king! Sing!" 
Psalms47:7 God is the King who rules over the whole earth! So sing a special song to praise him! 
Psalms47:8 God rules over the nations. God is sitting on his holy throne. 
Psalms47:9 The leaders of the nations have met together. They have joined with the people who serve Abraham's God. God has authority over all the world's rulers and their armies. Everyone should praise him, for he is great!" 
Psalms48:1 The Lord is great. He deserves people to praise him in the city of our God, on his holy mountain." 
Psalms48:2 That place is high up and it is beautiful. It brings joy to the whole world. Mount Zion is the city of the great King. It is where the true God lives. 
Psalms48:3 God is there in its strong places and he keeps the city safe. 
Psalms48:4 Look! There are kings of other nations who join together to attack our city. 
Psalms48:5 But when they come near and they see it, they are very surprised. It frightens them so much that they quickly run away!" 
Psalms48:6 They cannot stop themselves shaking, like a woman who is giving birth to a baby!" 
Psalms48:7 You push them away, like an east wind that destroys great ships." 
Psalms48:8 We had heard about the great things that God has done. Now we have seen them for ourselves, here in the city of the Lord Almighty, the city of our God. It is God who keeps the city safe for ever!" 
Psalms48:9 When we are in your temple, God, we think about your faithful love." 
Psalms48:10 You are famous all over the world, so that people praise you as you deserve. You are powerful and you rule with justice." 
Psalms48:11 Because you judge people in a right way, Mount Zion and all the towns of Judah will be happy." 
Psalms48:12 Walk all around Zion and look at it. Count the towers. 
Psalms48:13 Look at its strong buildings and its strong walls. Then you will be able to describe it to your children. 
Psalms48:14 Yes, this is our God, who is with us for ever! He will always be our guide." 
Psalms49:1 Listen to this, people from every nation. Yes, listen carefully, everyone who lives in this world!" 
Psalms49:2 All people must listen, whoever you are, whether you are rich people or poor people." 
Psalms49:3 I will speak wise words to you. When you know my thoughts, you will understand things better." 
Psalms49:4 I have studied proverbs. I explain what they mean as I make music on my harp. 
Psalms49:5 When trouble comes, why am I afraid? When cruel people are all around me, and they want to hurt me, why am I afraid?" 
Psalms49:6 Those people think that their money will keep them safe. They are proud about their riches. 
Psalms49:7 Nobody can pay the price to save another person. Nobody can pay God the price for their life. 
Psalms49:8 A human life costs too much to buy it back. Nobody could ever pay enough. 
Psalms49:9 So nobody can live for ever. Everyone goes to their grave one day. 
Psalms49:10 Surely you see that even wise people die, in the way that fools and stupid people also die. Then their money will belong to someone else." 
Psalms49:11 Their graves will be their homes for ever. They had their own land, which was called by their name," 
Psalms49:12 but people do not live for ever, even if they are very rich. They will die, just like the animals." 
Psalms49:13 The same thing will happen to fools, and to those who copy their way of life." 
Psalms49:14 They will follow one another like sheep. Death will be their shepherd that leads them into their graves. But when the day arrives, righteous people will rule over them. They will no longer live in their great houses. Death will destroy their bodies in their graves." 
Psalms49:15 But God will save my life from the power of death. He will take me to a safe place with him. 
Psalms49:16 If somebody becomes rich and he has more and more things, do not be afraid!" 
Psalms49:17 He cannot take anything with him when he dies. His riches cannot go with him into death. 
Psalms49:18 While he lived, he was happy with his life. He thought, ‘People will praise me, because I am rich.’" 
Psalms49:19 But he will join his ancestors in death. He will never see the light of day again. 
Psalms49:20 Rich people do not always understand the truth. They will die, just like the animals." 
Psalms50:1 God, the great God, the Lord, is speaking. He is calling everybody on the earth, from where the sun rises in the east, to where it goes down in the west." 
Psalms50:2 God is shining out from Zion, that most beautiful place." 
Psalms50:3 Our God is coming, and he does not come quietly! A fire burns up everything that is in front of him. There is a great storm all around him." 
Psalms50:4 He calls to the skies above, and to the earth below. They must watch while he judges his people." 
Psalms50:5 He says, ‘Bring my people to me. They are the people who offered sacrifices to me, to agree our covenant.’" 
Psalms50:6 The skies above show that God is righteous, and God himself is the judge." 
Psalms50:7 He says, ‘Listen to me, my people, and I will speak to you. I have something to say against you, Israel. I am God, your God." 
Psalms50:8 You offer sacrifices and burnt offerings to me all the time but that is not why I speak against you. 
Psalms50:9 I do not need a bull from your farm, or goats from your fields." 
Psalms50:10 All the wild animals of the forest belong to me! All the cows on a thousand hills belong to me! 
Psalms50:11 I know every bird in the mountains, as well as all the insects." 
Psalms50:12 Even if I did become hungry, I would not tell you. All the world belongs to me, and everything that is in it." 
Psalms50:13 Do I eat the meat of bulls? No! Do I drink the blood of goats? No! 
Psalms50:14 Say “thank you” to me as your offering. Do whatever you have promised to do for me, the Most High God." 
Psalms50:15 Pray to me when you are in trouble. Then I will rescue you, and you will praise me.’" 
Psalms50:16 But God says this to the wicked people: ‘It is useless for you to speak about my commands, or about my covenant." 
Psalms50:17 For you hate my teaching, and you refuse to accept my message." 
Psalms50:18 If you see a robber, you run to help him! You become friends with adulterers." 
Psalms50:19 You speak about evil things, and you are always telling lies." 
Psalms50:20 You say bad things about your own brother, and you speak against your own family!" 
Psalms50:21 You did all these things, and I said nothing. So you thought that I was as bad as you are. But now I am warning you! I will tell you clearly what you have done wrong." 
Psalms50:22 So think carefully about this, all you people who have turned away from me. If not, I will tear you into pieces, and nobody will be able to save you." 
Psalms50:23 If anyone wants to praise me, they should say “thank you” to me as their offering. If anyone obeys my commands, I will show them my power to save people.’" 
Psalms51:1 Please forgive me, God, because of your faithful love. Because you are so kind, please clean away my sins." 
Psalms51:2 I have done bad things, so wash me to make me clean again." 
Psalms51:3 I know that I have not obeyed you. I cannot forget that I am guilty. 
Psalms51:4 It is you that I have done bad things against, only you! I have done things that are evil, as you know. And so you are fair when you speak against me. You are right when you say that I am guilty." 
Psalms51:5 Yes, even from the day I was born I have done bad things. I have always been guilty of sin." 
Psalms51:6 But you want me to be completely good and honest. You want to teach me to be wise in the way that I live. 
Psalms51:7 Splash water over me with a hyssop plant, and I will be really clean. Wash me and I will be whiter than snow." 
Psalms51:8 Please forgive me so that I can be happy. Then my whole body will feel well again. 
Psalms51:9 Hide your face from my sins. Clean away all the bad things that I have done. 
Psalms51:10 God, please make me completely pure, deep inside me. Make my spirit strong and true." 
Psalms51:11 Do not send me away from you. Do not take your Holy Spirit away from me. 
Psalms51:12 Give me joy again, because you have made me safe. Make me strong and ready to obey you." 
Psalms51:13 Then I will teach your ways to people who have turned against you. Then sinners will turn back and they will obey you. 
Psalms51:14 God, I am guilty of murder. Please forgive me! You are the one who saves me. When you rescue me, I will sing aloud about your righteousness." 
Psalms51:15 Lord God, help me to speak, and then I will praise you." 
Psalms51:16 I would be happy to offer sacrifices to you, but that is not what you really want. You do not want a burnt offering from me." 
Psalms51:17 You want me to be humble and sorry. That is the sacrifice that you want. When people are humble and they turn away from their sins, you will not refuse them." 
Psalms51:18 God, please be kind and help Zion. Make the walls of Jerusalem strong again." 
Psalms51:19 Then you will accept our proper sacrifices. Our burnt offerings and sacrifices of whole animals will make you happy. Once again, people will offer bulls to you, on your altar." 
Psalms52:1 Strong man, why are you so proud about the evil things that you like to do? Remember that God's faithful love keeps me safe." 
Psalms52:2 Your tongue is like a sharp knife! You talk about how to hurt other people, You speak nothing but lies." 
Psalms52:3 You love to do evil things, not good things. You love to tell lies more than the truth." 
Psalms52:4 You love to say cruel words. You speak to deceive others. 
Psalms52:5 But God will knock you down, and he will break you into pieces. He will take you away from your home. He will remove you from this world where people live." 
Psalms52:6 Righteous people will see what has happened, and they will be afraid. Then they will laugh at the wicked person, and they will say," 
Psalms52:7 ‘Look! This man did not trust God to keep him safe. Instead, he trusted in his riches. He thought that he could be cruel, and that would keep him safe.’" 
Psalms52:8 But I am like a strong olive tree that grows in the house of God. I will always trust in God's faithful love for his people. 
Psalms52:9 I will always praise you, God, for what you have done. I will trust you to help me, together with all those who serve you." 
Psalms53:1 A fool thinks that there is no God. People like that are bad. They do evil things. None of them does anything that is good. 
Psalms53:2 God looks down from heaven at the people on earth. He wants to see if there is anyone who is really wise and who wants to know God. 
Psalms53:3 But they have all turned away. They have all become evil. Nobody does anything that is good, not even one person." 
Psalms53:4 People who do wicked things understand nothing. They destroy my people as easily as they eat bread. They never pray to God. 
Psalms53:5 But now they are very afraid when there is nothing to be afraid of! God has completely won against his enemies, the people that attack you, his people. God has turned against them, so you are able to make them ashamed!" 
Psalms53:6 God, you are the one who saves your people, Israel! Leave your home in Zion and make your people strong again! When God blesses his people, Jacob's descendants will sing! Yes, Israel's people will be very happy!" 
Psalms54:1 God, you are great, so please help me! Use your power to show that I am right." 
Psalms54:2 God, hear my prayer, and listen carefully to what I am saying." 
Psalms54:3 Strangers are attacking me! Cruel people want to kill me. They do not respect you, God." 
Psalms54:4 But I know that God is the one who gives me help. My Lord God takes care of me. 
Psalms54:5 Pay back my enemies with their own evil. Please do what you have promised and destroy them. 
Psalms54:6 I choose to offer a sacrifice to thank you. Lord, you are always good, so I want to praise your name." 
Psalms54:7 Yes, God has saved me from all my trouble. When I looked at my enemies, I see that I have won against them." 
Psalms55:1 God, listen to my prayer. Do not turn away when I ask you to help me." 
Psalms55:2 Listen carefully and answer me. I am very upset because of all my troubles, which are too many for me." 
Psalms55:3 I am afraid because of what my enemies say. Those wicked people give me much pain. They are so angry that they hate me and they give me nothing but trouble. 
Psalms55:4 My heart beats fast inside me. Death seems very near, and I am very afraid." 
Psalms55:5 I am shaking with fear! My troubles are too much for me. 
Psalms55:6 So I say, ‘If I had wings to fly like a dove, I would fly away to a safe place." 
Psalms55:7 Yes! I would go far away, and I would live in the wilderness." 
Psalms55:8 I would go quickly to a safe place. The strong winds and storms of my enemies would not reach me there!’ 
Psalms55:9 My Lord God, make my enemies confused! Stop them from doing what they want to do. Everywhere that I look in the city, I see that they do cruel things to attack people." 
Psalms55:10 They walk on the city's walls in the day and at night. Inside the city they do evil things that bring trouble everywhere. 
Psalms55:11 They destroy everything! In all the city's streets, they move freely. They hurt people and they cheat them." 
Psalms55:12 But it is not my enemies that have insulted me. That would not have hurt me. If my enemy laughs at me, I can always hide from him!" 
Psalms55:13 But it is you, my best friend! We did things as men together, and I trusted you!" 
Psalms55:14 We enjoyed our time together. We often went to God's temple, and we joined with the crowd of people there." 
Psalms55:15 Please let death suddenly destroy my enemies! May they go down into their graves alive! They are at home with evil, and that is all that they think about." 
Psalms55:16 But I will call to God for help. The Lord will make me safe. 
Psalms55:17 I will weep and cry to him, morning, noon and night. He will listen to what I say." 
Psalms55:18 I have very many enemies who attack me all the time. But God will rescue me and keep me safe. 
Psalms55:19 God has always ruled everything as king. He will listen to me, and he will punish my enemies. They refuse to change their thoughts, and they do not respect God." 
Psalms55:20 But my friend has turned against his own friends. He has not been a true friend, as he promised to be." 
Psalms55:21 He speaks a message of peace, but he is really thinking about war. His words are easy to listen to, but they hurt like sharp knives." 
Psalms55:22 Take your problems to the Lord. He will take care of you. He will never let his own people fall. 
Psalms55:23 And as for wicked people, you, God, will send them to their graves. They will go down into the deep hole of death while they are still young. That is what will happen to those cruel people, who kill and cheat others. But I will trust in you, God." 
Psalms56:1 God, please be kind to me, and help me, because people are fighting me. My enemies are attacking me every day." 
Psalms56:2 They chase me all the time! Those proud people want to catch me, and there are many of them!" 
Psalms56:3 But when I am afraid, I will trust in you." 
Psalms56:4 By God's help, I will praise his word. By God's help, I will trust in him. I will not be afraid. People can do nothing to hurt me!" 
Psalms56:5 All the time, they bring trouble on me. They are always thinking of ways to hurt me." 
Psalms56:6 They hide and they watch me. They watch me wherever I go, and they hope to kill me." 
Psalms56:7 God, they want to do wicked things, so punish them! Destroy these people, because you are angry with them." 
Psalms56:8 Every time that I am upset, you know about it. Put all my tears in your bottle! Yes, write down every tear in your book." 
Psalms56:9 When I call to you for help, my enemies will turn back. I know that God is with me. He will fight for me." 
Psalms56:10 By God's help, I will praise his promise. Yes, by the Lord 's help, I will praise his word." 
Psalms56:11 I am not afraid, because I trust in God. People can do nothing to hurt me." 
Psalms56:12 I have made special promises to you, God, and I will do what I have promised. I will offer to you a sacrifice to say ‘thank you’." 
Psalms56:13 You have saved my life from death. You keep me safe so that I do not fall. As a result, I will serve you, God, as you give me light to live here on earth." 
Psalms57:1 God, please be kind to me and help me! Please help me! I have come to you to keep me safe. Until the danger has gone, keep me near to you, as birds protect their babies under their wings." 
Psalms57:2 I will call to the Most High God to help me. He is the God who stands beside me. 
Psalms57:3 He will send help from heaven and he will save me. He will punish the people who attack me. God will show me his faithful love, and he will do what he has promised." 
Psalms57:4 My enemies are all around me, like hungry lions! I must lie down among wild animals that want to eat me! They are men who use spears and arrows to bite like teeth. They use their tongues to hurt people, like sharp swords." 
Psalms57:5 God, show how great you are, high above the sky! Let everybody on the earth see your glory!" 
Psalms57:6 My enemies have prepared a trap to catch me. That makes me very upset. They have dug a deep hole on the path where I walk. But they have fallen into it themselves! 
Psalms57:7 God, I have decided to trust you always. Yes, I will trust you! I will sing songs to praise you!" 
Psalms57:8 I will wake up now! I will pick up my harp and my lyre. I will make music as the sun rises! 
Psalms57:9 My Lord God, I will thank you in front of all the people. I will sing to praise you, so that all nations hear." 
Psalms57:10 Your faithful love is great. It is higher than the skies. Your truth reaches beyond the clouds. 
Psalms57:11 God, show how great you are, high above the sky! Let everybody on the earth see your glory!" 
Psalms58:1 Do you rulers really say what is right? Do you judge people in a fair way? 
Psalms58:2 No! You do not! You like to think of evil things to do. You make cruel things happen everywhere in the land. 
Psalms58:3 Wicked people do wrong things from their birth. As soon as they are born, they start telling lies." 
Psalms58:4 Their words hurt people like a snake's poison. They listen to nobody, like a deaf cobra." 
Psalms58:5 It does not obey the voice of the magician, even if he sings very well!" 
Psalms58:6 God, break the teeth of my enemies! Yes, Lord, break into pieces the teeth of those lions!" 
Psalms58:7 Cause them to run away like water and disappear. Cause them to die like dry grass in hot weather. 
Psalms58:8 Cause them to be like a worm that melts as it moves along. Cause them to be like a child that is born dead and never sees the light of day. 
Psalms58:9 Remove them quickly, more quickly than pots become hot over a fire of thorn bushes." 
Psalms58:10 When God punishes those wicked people, righteous people will be very happy. They will wash their feet in the blood of the wicked people!" 
Psalms58:11 People who see it will say, ‘It is true! God helps good people! There is a God who judges people on earth in a fair way.’" 
Psalms59:1 My God, please save me from my enemies! They are attacking me, so please keep me safe from them." 
Psalms59:2 Rescue me from those dangerous men, who are doing evil things." 
Psalms59:3 Look at them! They are waiting to kill me! Cruel men are ready to attack me. Lord, I have not done anything against them, but they still want to kill me." 
Psalms59:4 I have done nothing that is wrong, but they are preparing to attack me. Do something to help me! Look at what they are doing!" 
Psalms59:5 For you are the Lord God Almighty, the God that Israel serves. Get up and punish all the foreign nations. Do not forgive any wicked people who have turned against us." 
Psalms59:6 Those wicked people come back to the city every evening. They go from place to place, and they cry out like dogs." 
Psalms59:7 They shout evil things, and their words hurt like swords. They think, ‘Nobody can hear what we say!’" 
Psalms59:8 But Lord, you laugh at them. You laugh at all the foreign nations." 
Psalms59:9 I will wait for you to help me, because you are the one who gives me strength. You, God, are the strong place where I will be safe." 
Psalms59:10 Yes God, you love me with a faithful love, and you will come to help me. God will let me see that he has won against my enemies." 
Psalms59:11 Do not kill them yet, or my people will soon forget. Use your power to send them away without homes. Then make them fall! You are our Lord God, who keeps us safe like a soldier's shield." 
Psalms59:12 Those wicked people speak evil words. Let their own pride catch them in a trap, because they curse people, and they tell lies." 
Psalms59:13 Because you are angry with them, destroy them! Destroy them completely, so that they are no more. Then everybody will know that God rules in Israel, and he rules everywhere in the earth." 
Psalms59:14 Those wicked people come back to the city every evening. They go from place to place, and they cry out like dogs." 
Psalms59:15 They go from place to place and they look for food to eat. They will not rest until they are full. 
Psalms59:16 But I will sing to praise you. I will sing about your strength! In the morning, I will praise you for your faithful love. Because you are the strong place where I can hide. When I am in trouble, you keep me safe." 
Psalms59:17 You are the one who gives me strength. I will sing songs to praise you. You, God, are my strong, safe place. You are the God who loves me with a faithful love." 
Psalms60:1 God, you have turned against us, and you have broken down our strong walls. You are angry with us, but please make us strong again!" 
Psalms60:2 You made the ground shake and you tore it open. Now mend the holes, or everything will fall down." 
Psalms60:3 You have given your people a time of great trouble. You have given us strong wine to drink, that has made us fall like drunk people." 
Psalms60:4 But you have lifted up a flag for the people who serve you. They can meet together there, to be safe in the battle." 
Psalms60:5 Use your power to rescue us! Answer our prayers! Then the people that you love will be safe. 
Psalms60:6 God has spoken from his holy place! He has promised: ‘I will show my power! I will divide Shechem into separate pieces. I will measure Succoth Valley. 
Psalms60:7 Gilead belongs to me, and so does Manasseh. Ephraim is like my helmet for war. Judah has the authority of my royal sceptre." 
Psalms60:8 But Moab is the place where I wash my hands. Edom is my servant. I can throw my shoes at him! I will shout loudly, because I have won against the Philistines.’" 
Psalms60:9 Who will lead me into the strong city? Who will take me to fight and win against Edom? 
Psalms60:10 God, have you really turned against us? Will you not lead our armies into battle?" 
Psalms60:11 Help us to fight against our enemies, because help from men is useless!" 
Psalms60:12 With God's help, we will win! He will beat down our enemies for us." 
Psalms61:1 God, please hear me when I call to you for help. Listen carefully to my prayer." 
Psalms61:2 I will call out to you from far away, because I am sad and weak. Lead me to a strong, safe rock that is higher than I am." 
Psalms61:3 You are the safe place where I can hide. You are like a strong tower that keeps me safe against my enemies. 
Psalms61:4 I want to live in your house for ever. I want you to keep me safe, as birds protect their babies under their wings." 
Psalms61:5 You, God, have heard my promises to you. You have blessed me, as you bless all those people who serve you." 
Psalms61:6 Please give the king a long life. Let him live to see many descendants. 
Psalms61:7 Let him rule for ever with your authority. Cause your faithful love and your truth to keep him safe. 
Psalms61:8 Then I will always praise your name. Every day I will give you the offerings that I have promised. 
Psalms62:1 I will be patient as I wait for God to help me. He is the only one who can make me safe. 
Psalms62:2 He alone is the strong rock where I can hide and be safe. With him, nothing will make me fall." 
Psalms62:3 How long will you all continue to attack me? I am just one man, and you want to kill me! You want to knock me down, like a weak wall or a fence that is falling down." 
Psalms62:4 You only want to push me off my high place. You love to tell lies to deceive people. When you say words to bless people, you are cursing them in your thoughts." 
Psalms62:5 I must be patient as I wait for God to help me. He is the only one that I can trust for help. 
Psalms62:6 He alone is the strong rock where I can hide and be safe. With him, nothing will make me fall." 
Psalms62:7 It is God who has kept me safe, and he has made me great. He is the strong place where I can hide and be safe." 
Psalms62:8 Yes, my friends, you should always trust in God! Tell him about all the troubles in your thoughts. God is our safe place to hide!" 
Psalms62:9 People are only as light as a breath! Whoever they are, they are not important. If you try to weigh them, all together, they weigh less than a breath of air." 
Psalms62:10 Do not cheat people, or rob them to get money! That will not give you anything that you can trust to help you. Even if you become very rich, do not think it is important." 
Psalms62:11 I have heard God speak his truth once, no twice! God has great strength." 
Psalms62:12 And also, my Lord God, you have a faithful love. You pay back to everybody what they deserve for the things that they have done." 
Psalms63:1 God, you are my God. I want to be near to you. I need you to give me life, like a thirsty person in a dry desert. As a person needs water to live, that is how I need you." 
Psalms63:2 When I have gone into your temple, I have seen what you are like. I have seen your great power and your glory." 
Psalms63:3 Your faithful love for me is better than life itself. So I will speak aloud to praise you. 
Psalms63:4 Yes, I will thank you for as long as I live. I will lift up my hands and I will pray to you." 
Psalms63:5 You make me very happy, better than a feast of good food. I will sing happy songs to praise you." 
Psalms63:6 When I lie on my bed, I think about you all through the night." 
Psalms63:7 You are the one who keeps me safe, as a bird protects its babies under its wings. So I sing happy songs." 
Psalms63:8 I keep very near to you and your strong right hand keeps me safe. 
Psalms63:9 My enemies are trying to kill me, but I know that they themselves will die. They will go down into the deep hole of death." 
Psalms63:10 Soldiers will kill them with swords. Wild dogs will eat their dead bodies. 
Psalms63:11 But the king will sing songs to praise God. Everybody who promises to serve God will speak aloud to praise him. But everyone who tells lies will not be able to say anything! 
Psalms64:1 God, please listen to me as I tell you about my troubles. Keep me safe from my enemies when they attack me." 
Psalms64:2 When evil men think of ways to hurt me, hide me in a safe place. Those people work together as a group to do wicked things." 
Psalms64:3 Their tongues are like sharp swords that hurt people. Their cruel words are like arrows that they shoot at people. 
Psalms64:4 They hide in secret places, and they quickly shoot lies at good people. They are not afraid that anyone will punish them." 
Psalms64:5 They help each other to do evil things. They decide where they will hide their traps, and they say, ‘Nobody will see them!’" 
Psalms64:6 They think of wicked ideas to hurt people. They say, ‘That is a great idea!’ Nobody really understands what people think deep inside themselves." 
Psalms64:7 But God will punish them! He will suddenly shoot an arrow at them and it will hurt them a lot. 
Psalms64:8 Their own evil words will turn against them and make them fall. Everyone who sees them will shake their heads. 
Psalms64:9 People will be afraid. They will say, ‘Look at what God has done!’ They will think carefully about it all." 
Psalms64:10 But people who serve the Lord should be happy because of what he has done. They should trust him to keep them safe. Good, honest people should praise God, because he is great!" 
Psalms65:1 God, it is right for us to praise you in Zion. There, we will offer to you the gifts that we have promised." 
Psalms65:2 You answer our prayers. All of us must come to you," 
Psalms65:3 because of our many sins. Our sins are too heavy for us to carry, but you forgive the bad things that we do against you." 
Psalms65:4 You have blessed each person that you have chosen. You let them live near to you in your home. The good things that are in your holy temple will make us very happy! 
Psalms65:5 God, you are the one who saves us! You answer our prayers, and you do great things to rescue us. People from everywhere on earth trust in you, even those who live far away across the seas." 
Psalms65:6 You used your power to make the mountains, and you showed how strong you are." 
Psalms65:7 You stop the seas from being angry, so that their waters make no noise. You do the same with the angry nations." 
Psalms65:8 People who live far away see the great things that you have done. It makes them afraid. Everywhere on earth, east and west, people sing happy songs to praise you." 
Psalms65:9 You take care of the land. You send rain to make the earth good for plants. Your rivers are full of water. You cause the earth to give good crops so that the people have grain to eat. 
Psalms65:10 When people plough their fields, you send rain to make the earth wet. You make the ground soft with the rain, so that crops grow there." 
Psalms65:11 Every year at harvest time, you bless people with lots of good things. Everywhere that you go, there is plenty of food." 
Psalms65:12 Fresh grass covers the fields in the wilderness. There are plenty of good things all over the hills, so that people are very happy." 
Psalms65:13 The fields are full of sheep. The valleys are covered with crops. Everywhere seems to shout and sing for joy! 
Psalms66:1 Everyone on earth, shout aloud to praise God, because you are very happy." 
Psalms66:2 Sing to praise his great name! Praise him in the way that he deserves. 
Psalms66:3 Say to God, ‘You do great things! Your great power makes your enemies afraid. They come to you and they bend down to the ground." 
Psalms66:4 The whole world bends down to worship you. Everyone sings to praise your name.’ 
Psalms66:5 Come and see the great things that God has done. He has done wonderful miracles for people! 
Psalms66:6 He caused the Red Sea to become dry land. His people walked across the river! We praise him for what he did there! 
Psalms66:7 He has the power to rule for ever. He watches everything that the nations do. Wicked people should not be proud and turn against him. 
Psalms66:8 You people from every nation, agree that our God is great! Praise him with loud voices, so that everyone can hear!" 
Psalms66:9 He keeps our lives safe. He does not let us fall to the ground. 
Psalms66:10 You have tested us, God. You wanted to make us pure, as people make silver pure in a hot fire." 
Psalms66:11 You caused a trap to catch us, so that we suffered very much." 
Psalms66:12 You gave people power to hurt us. We went through dangerous fire and water. But then you brought us into a safe, open place." 
Psalms66:13 I will bring burnt offerings to your Temple. I will bring you the gifts that I promised. 
Psalms66:14 When I was in trouble, I made those promises. I spoke them aloud." 
Psalms66:15 I will offer you gifts of fat animals, to burn them as sacrifices. I will also burn sheep as offerings, and their smell will please you. I will also offer bulls and goats to you." 
Psalms66:16 Come and listen, all you people who serve God. I will tell you about the things that God has done for me." 
Psalms66:17 I called to him for help, then I praised him aloud!" 
Psalms66:18 If I had kept wicked things in my mind, the Lord God would not have listened to me." 
Psalms66:19 But God did hear me. When I called to him, he listened to my prayer." 
Psalms66:20 So I praise God, as he deserves. He has not refused to listen to me. He has continued to love me with his faithful love." 
Psalms67:1 God, please be kind to us and bless us. Look at us with a smile on your face." 
Psalms67:2 Then people on the earth will know what pleases you. People from all nations will know that you have the power to save them. 
Psalms67:3 May people everywhere praise you, God. Yes, may they all praise you!" 
Psalms67:4 May the nations be so happy that they sing aloud with joy! Because you are fair when you judge people, and you are a guide for all the nations of the world." 
Psalms67:5 May people everywhere praise you, God. Yes, may they all praise you!" 
Psalms67:6 The land has given us a harvest of food, and God, our God, continues to bless us." 
Psalms67:7 God, please bless us! Then all people everywhere will give you honour." 
Psalms68:1 God will rise up and he will chase his enemies away! The people who hate him will quickly run away from him! 
Psalms68:2 God, blow them away, as wind blows smoke away. Destroy those wicked people, as wax melts near a fire!" 
Psalms68:3 But righteous people will be happy, when they come near to you. They will shout with joy, because they are so happy!" 
Psalms68:4 Sing songs to God! Sing to praise his name! He is the one who rides on the clouds, so praise him aloud! His name is the Lord! Shout with joy to worship him!" 
Psalms68:5 God is a father for those who have no father. He takes care of widows. He rules from his holy home. 
Psalms68:6 God gives homes and a family to lonely people. He makes prisoners go free so that they are happy. But people who turn against him have to live in a hot, dry land." 
Psalms68:7 God, you led your people out. You took them across the desert." 
Psalms68:8 Then the ground shook, and rain poured down from the sky. You showed your power at Mount Sinai. You are the God who rules at Sinai. You are the God that Israel's people serve." 
Psalms68:9 God, you caused much rain to fall on your people's land. You made it fresh again when it had become dry." 
Psalms68:10 Your own people came to live in it. God, because you are kind, you gave many good things to poor people." 
Psalms68:11 The Lord God gives a command! Very many women take his message to other places. 
Psalms68:12 Kings with large armies quickly run away. Yes, they run away! The women at home share the valuable things that the armies have left behind." 
Psalms68:13 Even those who stayed to take care of the sheep found valuable things, like a dove with silver wings and bright gold feathers." 
Psalms68:14 When the Almighty God chased away foreign kings, it was like snow that fell on Mount Zalmon." 
Psalms68:15 Bashan is a very great mountain. It has many high rocks. 
Psalms68:16 You high mountains, why are you jealous when you look at Mount Zion? That is the mountain where God has chosen to live. Yes, that is where the Lord will live for ever!" 
Psalms68:17 God has millions of chariots. The Lord God has come from Mount Sinai to his own holy place. 
Psalms68:18 When you went up to the highest place, you took many prisoners with you. You received gifts from men, even from the men who had fought against you. Yes, the Lord God lives there!" 
Psalms68:19 Praise the Lord God, as he deserves! Every day he helps us with our troubles. He is the God who keeps us safe!" 
Psalms68:20 Our God is the God who rescues people. The Almighty Lord saves us from death. 
Psalms68:21 He will knock down the heads of his enemies. He will destroy their skulls and their long hair, if they continue to turn against him." 
Psalms68:22 The Lord God says, ‘I will bring my enemies back from Bashan, even from deep down in the sea." 
Psalms68:23 Then you can wash your feet in their blood. Your dogs can have as much as they want!’ 
Psalms68:24 God, you are my God and my King. People will see the great crowd that goes with you, as you go to your holy temple." 
Psalms68:25 The singers will march in front. The musicians will follow them. Young women will be with them as they beat their tambourines. 
Psalms68:26 They all sing, ‘Praise God, all you crowd of people! All you people of Israel, praise the Lord!’" 
Psalms68:27 Benjamin, the smallest tribe, will lead them all. The leaders of Judah, with their big group, will follow. Then will come the leaders of Zebulun and Naphtali." 
Psalms68:28 God has commanded that you should be strong. God, please show us again how strong you are, as you have used your strength to help us in past times." 
Psalms68:29 As you live in your temple in Jerusalem, kings will bring gifts to you." 
Psalms68:30 Speak against your enemies! Some are like wild animals that live in the reeds. Some are proud nations, like bulls among their young cows. They must be humble. They must offer gifts of valuable silver things to you. Chase away those nations that like to fight wars." 
Psalms68:31 Egypt's leaders will come with gifts. People will come from Cush and they will agree to serve God. 
Psalms68:32 All you kingdoms of the earth, sing to God! Yes, sing to praise the Lord God!" 
Psalms68:33 He is the one who rides in the sky, as he has done from the beginning of time. Listen! He shouts with a powerful voice." 
Psalms68:34 Agree that God is very powerful! He is the King who rules over Israel. He shows his power in the skies. 
Psalms68:35 God, how great you are, as you come from your holy temple! He is the God of Israel. He gives power to his people, and he makes them strong. Praise God as he deserves!" 
Psalms69:1 Please rescue me, God, because the deep water has come up to my neck." 
Psalms69:2 I will soon sink into deep mud. There is no safe place to put my feet. I am now in deep water, and the floods pour over me." 
Psalms69:3 I have shouted so much for help that I am tired and weak. My mouth is so dry that it hurts. I have looked so long for help from you, my God, that my eyes have become weak." 
Psalms69:4 Very many people hate me with no good reason. They are more than the number of hairs on my head! My enemies are too strong for me. They want to destroy me with their lies. They make me give back to them things that I did not take from them! 
Psalms69:5 You know, God, that I do foolish things. I cannot hide my sins from you." 
Psalms69:6 My Lord, Almighty Lord, Israel's God, do not let anyone who trusts you become ashamed because of me. Do not let anyone who serves you become ashamed because of me." 
Psalms69:7 Because I belong to you, people insult me. They make me feel ashamed." 
Psalms69:8 I have become like a stranger to my brothers. I am like a foreigner to my family. 
Psalms69:9 My love for your house burns inside me like a fire. Anybody who insults you, is also insulting me!" 
Psalms69:10 When I weep and I stop eating food, it causes people to insult me." 
Psalms69:11 When I wear sackcloth to show that I am sad, people laugh at me." 
Psalms69:12 The leaders at the city gate talk about me. People who are drunk make songs to sing about me. 
Psalms69:13 But as for me, Lord, I continue to pray to you. Please answer me at the right time. Be kind to me, God, because of your faithful love. Save me, as you have promised to do." 
Psalms69:14 Rescue me out of the mud and do not let me sink down into it. Save me from the people that hate me. Save me from the deep water. 
Psalms69:15 Do not let the floods pour over me. Do not let the deep sea cause me to drown. Do not let me fall into the deep hole of death. 
Psalms69:16 Please answer me, Lord, because your faithful love is great. Turn to hear me, because you are so very kind." 
Psalms69:17 Do not turn away from me, your servant. I am in great trouble, so please answer me very soon." 
Psalms69:18 Come very near to me, and make me safe. Rescue me from my enemies." 
Psalms69:19 God, you know that people are insulting me. They laugh at me to make me feel ashamed. You can see what all my enemies are doing." 
Psalms69:20 When they insult me, it makes me very upset. I feel helpless. I hoped that someone would be kind and help me, but there was nobody. I wanted someone to comfort me, but I did not find anyone." 
Psalms69:21 Instead, my enemies put poison in my food. When I was thirsty, they gave me vinegar to drink." 
Psalms69:22 Please God, cause their feasts to become a trap for them. Let it bring trouble to them and their friends." 
Psalms69:23 Let their eyes be in the dark so that they cannot see. Let their bodies become weak. 
Psalms69:24 Yes, punish them, because you are so angry with them!" 
Psalms69:25 Let their homes become empty, so that nobody lives in them any more." 
Psalms69:26 Do this, because they chase after the people that you have already punished. They talk about the pain of the people that you have hurt." 
Psalms69:27 Make a note of all their sins. Do not ever forgive them, so that they are righteous." 
Psalms69:28 Remove their names from the book of living people. Do not write their names on the list of righteous people. 
Psalms69:29 But I have pain in my body and trouble in my mind. God, rescue me and keep me safe!" 
Psalms69:30 I will sing to praise God's name! I will thank him because he is great! 
Psalms69:31 That will please the Lord more than if I offer him an ox, or a great bull with horns." 
Psalms69:32 When humble people see that God has rescued me, they will be very happy. People who want to serve God will become strong in their lives." 
Psalms69:33 For the Lord listens to the prayers of poor people. He does not forget to help his people when they are prisoners. 
Psalms69:34 Heaven and earth should praise him! The seas and everything that lives in them should praise him! 
Psalms69:35 For God will rescue Zion's people. He will build Judah's cities again. Then his people will live there. The land will belong to them again. 
Psalms69:36 Then the descendants of his servants will have the land for themselves. The people who love God will live there safely. 
Psalms70:1 God, please save me! Lord, come quickly to help me!" 
Psalms70:2 Stop the people who want to kill me, so that they become ashamed and confused. Chase the people who want to hurt me, so that they run away in shame." 
Psalms70:3 When people laugh at me, make them ashamed for what they have done." 
Psalms70:4 God, may those who want to know you be very happy. Everyone who loves you because you have saved them should never stop saying, ‘ Praise God.’" 
Psalms70:5 But I am poor and weak, God. Please hurry to give me help. You are the one who helps me and who saves me. Lord, come quickly to help me!" 
Psalms71:1 Lord, I have come to you to keep me safe. Never let me become ashamed." 
Psalms71:2 You always do what is right, so please rescue me! Listen to me, and come to save me!" 
Psalms71:3 Be a rock where I can hide. Be a strong place where I can be safe. You are my high rock and my strong, safe place." 
Psalms71:4 My God, save me from the power of wicked people, so that those cruel people cannot catch me." 
Psalms71:5 My Lord God, I trust you to help me. I have trusted in you, Lord, since I was young." 
Psalms71:6 Since I was born, you have been there to help me. You have taken care of me since my mother gave birth to me. So I will always praise you!" 
Psalms71:7 When people see me, they see trouble! But you are a strong place to keep me safe." 
Psalms71:8 I can never stop praising you! All the time, I speak about your glory!" 
Psalms71:9 Do not chase me away when I am old. When I am no longer strong, do not turn away from me." 
Psalms71:10 For my enemies say things against me. They think of ways that they can kill me. 
Psalms71:11 They say, ‘God has turned away from him. Run after him and catch him, for nobody will rescue him.’" 
Psalms71:12 God, do not stay far away from me. My God, come quickly to help me!" 
Psalms71:13 Make my enemies become completely ashamed. They speak against me and they want to hurt me. So let them fall with great shame! 
Psalms71:14 But as for me, I will always wait for you to help me. I will continue to praise you more and more." 
Psalms71:15 I will tell people that you always do what is right. I will always speak about your power to save people. But you have done more than I will ever know about! 
Psalms71:16 I will tell about the great things that you have done, Almighty Lord. I will tell everyone that you are righteous. You, only you, are righteous." 
Psalms71:17 God, you have taught me since I was young. I still tell people about the great things that you have done." 
Psalms71:18 And even when I am old and my hair is grey, do not turn away from me, God. I need to tell the people still to be born about your great strength. My descendants need to know about your power." 
Psalms71:19 Your justice reaches beyond the sky above! You have done such great things, God. There is nobody like you!" 
Psalms71:20 You have caused me to have many bad troubles. But you will make my life strong again. You will lift me back out from this deep hole in the earth. 
Psalms71:21 You will make me great again, so that people respect me. You will turn back to me, so that I feel strong." 
Psalms71:22 I will pick up my harp and I will sing to thank you. I will praise you, my God, because you do what you promise. I will sing to praise you, the Holy One of Israel, with the music of a lyre." 
Psalms71:23 I will shout aloud with joy, as I praise you with music! I will sing songs to praise you, because you have rescued me." 
Psalms71:24 I will talk about your justice all the time. The people who want to hurt me will become confused and ashamed. 
Psalms72:1 God, please help the king to judge people in a right way. Help the king's son to be honest and fair, as you are." 
Psalms72:2 Then he will rule your people in a good way, so that even poor people receive justice." 
Psalms72:3 The mountains and the hills will bring peace, so that the people can live honest lives." 
Psalms72:4 Please help the king to judge poor people fairly. May he save the children of weak people, and destroy those cruel people who hurt them." 
Psalms72:5 May people always respect your authority, God, through all time, as long as the sun and the moon remain in the sky." 
Psalms72:6 May the king be a blessing to his people, like rain that falls on grass that lies in the fields. May he be like rain that brings water to the soil." 
Psalms72:7 While he rules as king, those people who serve God will have success. There will be peace in all the land, for as long as the moon remains in the sky." 
Psalms72:8 May the king rule everywhere, from sea to sea, and from the Euphrates River to the ends of the earth." 
Psalms72:9 Then people who live in the desert will bend down to respect him. His enemies will fall down with their faces in the dust. 
Psalms72:10 Kings from Spain and from other far places will pay taxes to him. Kings from Sheba and from Seba will bring gifts to him. 
Psalms72:11 All kings will bend down in front of him. People from all nations will serve him. 
Psalms72:12 He will rescue the poor person who calls out to him for help. He will save weak people who have nobody to help them. 
Psalms72:13 He will be kind to people who are poor and weak. He will save them from death. 
Psalms72:14 He will rescue them from cruel people who hurt them. Their lives are important to him. 
Psalms72:15 Long live the king! May people come from Sheba to give gold to him. May people always pray for him. May people praise him all the time. 
Psalms72:16 May there always be plenty of grain that grows in the land. May the crops grow well on the tops of the mountains. May the fruit trees give a lot of fruit, as they do in Lebanon. May all the crops grow well, like grass that grows in a field." 
Psalms72:17 May the king be famous for ever! May people remember him for as long as the sun continues to shine. May people from all nations use his name when they bless one another. May they all say that God has blessed the king! 
Psalms72:18 Praise the Lord, Israel's God, as he deserves. Only he does such wonderful things." 
Psalms72:19 Praise his great name for ever! May his glory fill the whole earth! Amen! May that all happen! 
Psalms72:20 This is the end of the prayers of Jesse's son, David." 
Psalms73:1 God is truly good to the people of Israel, to people who want to serve him honestly." 
Psalms73:2 But this is what happened to me: I nearly slipped and fell over. I could no longer stand properly. 
Psalms73:3 When I saw that wicked people had plenty of things, I was jealous of those proud people." 
Psalms73:4 Their bodies are fat and strong, and they feel no pain in their lives." 
Psalms73:5 They do not have trouble like other people. They seem to have no problems. 
Psalms73:6 Their pride is like their necklace. They like to be cruel, as they like to wear clothes." 
Psalms73:7 Their greedy eyes lead them into sin. Their minds think of evil things to do. 
Psalms73:8 They laugh at people and they say bad things about them. They proudly speak about cruel things that they want to do to people. 
Psalms73:9 They think that they rule in heaven, as well as on the earth!" 
Psalms73:10 As a result, God's people become confused, and they listen to them. They think that everything is true that those wicked people say." 
Psalms73:11 They say, ‘Does God really know what we do? Does the Most High God know everything?’" 
Psalms73:12 Take a good look, and see how wicked those people are! They have no troubles, and they become richer and richer." 
Psalms73:13 I decided that I had tried to do what is right, but it did not help me at all! I had refused to do anything wrong, for no good reason!" 
Psalms73:14 I had trouble each and every day. Punishment came to me every morning! 
Psalms73:15 If I had spoken aloud things like that, I would have turned against your own people." 
Psalms73:16 When I thought about all this, it was so hard for me to understand." 
Psalms73:17 But I went into your temple, God. Then I understood what would happen to wicked people in the end." 
Psalms73:18 Yes, I realized that they are in a dangerous place, where they will easily slip. You will cause them to fall down to their death." 
Psalms73:19 It will take just a moment to destroy them! Great fear will sweep them away! 
Psalms73:20 They will completely disappear, like a dream disappears after you wake up. Lord God, when you decide to do something, you will think that they are nothing!" 
Psalms73:21 I was very upset, and my thoughts were confused." 
Psalms73:22 I was stupid, and I did not understand you properly. I was no better than an animal." 
Psalms73:23 But I am always near to you. You hold my right hand, as my guide." 
Psalms73:24 You teach me the right way to go. Finally, you will receive me with honour." 
Psalms73:25 You are the only one in heaven or on earth that I need to help me. You are the only one that I want. 
Psalms73:26 My body and my mind may become weak, but God will always keep me safe and strong." 
Psalms73:27 Those people who stay far away from you will die. You destroy everybody who turns away from you. 
Psalms73:28 But as for me, it is good for me to stay near to God. I have gone to the Almighty Lord as the place where I can be safe. I will tell people about the great things that you have done." 
Psalms74:1 God, have you turned against us for ever? Why are you so angry with us? We belong to you, so please take care of us, like a shepherd takes care of his sheep." 
Psalms74:2 Remember that we are your people. Long ago you chose us for yourself. You rescued us from being slaves, so that we could be your special nation of people. So please think about us, as well as your home on Mount Zion." 
Psalms74:3 Come and look at our buildings! Your enemies have completely destroyed them. They have also destroyed everything that is in your temple. 
Psalms74:4 Your enemies shout loudly inside your special meeting place. They have put up their own flags there. 
Psalms74:5 They used axes to cut the temple into pieces, like people who cut down trees!" 
Psalms74:6 They used their hammers and axes to break the beautiful wooden boards. 
Psalms74:7 They completely burned your temple. They knocked it down to the ground! They caused your special place to become useless! 
Psalms74:8 They said to themselves, ‘We will completely destroy them all.’ So they burned down every place in the land where people meet to worship God." 
Psalms74:9 We no longer see any signs that God is with us. There are no more prophets among us. Nobody can tell us how long this will continue. 
Psalms74:10 God, how long will our enemies laugh at you? Will they insult your name for ever?" 
Psalms74:11 Why do you do nothing to help us? Use your power now to punish them! 
Psalms74:12 God, you have been my king from the beginning. You have done great things to rescue us all over the earth." 
Psalms74:13 You divided the sea into separate pieces, because you are so strong. You broke the heads of the monsters in the waters of the sea." 
Psalms74:14 You broke the heads of Leviathan. You gave his body as food for the animals that live in the desert. 
Psalms74:15 You caused springs and streams of water to appear, and you made large rivers become dry!" 
Psalms74:16 Days and nights both belong to you. You put the moon and the sun in their places. 
Psalms74:17 You said where the land must be among the seas. You made both summer and winter. 
Psalms74:18 Lord, think about your enemies. They are always laughing at you. Foolish people are insulting your name." 
Psalms74:19 We, your people, are like your own special dove. Do not let wild animals destroy us! We are weak and helpless, so do not forget about us!" 
Psalms74:20 Remember what you have promised to do for us. There are dark places everywhere, where cruel people hide." 
Psalms74:21 We are weak, and people want to hurt us. Do not let us become ashamed. Instead, let the poor, weak people praise your name!" 
Psalms74:22 Do something, God! Show everyone that you are good. Think how fools are laughing at you all the time." 
Psalms74:23 Do not forget what your enemies are saying. They shout things against you all the time! 
Psalms75:1 God, we thank you! Yes, we thank you! You are very near to us. People everywhere say what great things you have done." 
Psalms75:2 God says, ‘I choose the time when I will judge people, and I will be a fair judge." 
Psalms75:3 When the earth shakes and the people in it are afraid, I will keep its foundations strong.’" 
Psalms75:4 I say to people who are proud, ‘Do not be proud.’ I say to wicked people, ‘Do not boast about your power." 
Psalms75:5 Do not boast against God. Do not speak with such proud words.’ 
Psalms75:6 Who has the power to judge people? Nobody from the east, or from the west, or from the desert can be judge." 
Psalms75:7 God is the one who judges people. He decides who to bring down and who to lift up. 
Psalms75:8 The Lord holds a cup of punishment in his hand. It is full of wine, with spices in it. The Lord pours out his anger from this cup. All the wicked people in the world will have to drink it. They will drink all of it, so that none remains." 
Psalms75:9 But as for me, I will always thank you, God. I will sing to praise you, the God of Jacob." 
Psalms75:10 You say, ‘I will destroy the power of wicked people. I will give strength to my righteous people.’" 
Psalms76:1 People in Judah know who God is. He is famous in Israel. 
Psalms76:2 His home is in Salem. Yes, he lives in Zion." 
Psalms76:3 There he destroyed all the weapons of our enemy, their arrows, their shields, and their swords. He destroyed everything that they use to fight wars." 
Psalms76:4 God, you are the one who shines with glory! You are greater than the greatest mountains." 
Psalms76:5 You won against brave soldiers, so that we robbed them of everything. Now they are sleeping, and they will never wake up! They are completely helpless." 
Psalms76:6 God of Jacob, when your enemies heard you shout at them, both the horses and their riders fell down dead." 
Psalms76:7 Yes, everyone is afraid of you, our God! When you are angry, nobody can stand against you." 
Psalms76:8 From heaven you said how you would judge people. Everybody on earth became afraid. They could not say anything! 
Psalms76:9 This happened when you came to punish wicked people. You came to rescue the weak and poor people in the land. 
Psalms76:10 Everybody will praise you, even those who are angry against you. You will show them how angry you really are." 
Psalms76:11 Make promises to the Lord your God, and do what you have promised. Everyone who serves God should bring gifts to him. We must respect him with fear." 
Psalms76:12 He makes proud rulers become humble. All the kings of the world should be afraid of him. 
Psalms77:1 I will call out to God for help. I will call aloud to God, and he will listen to me." 
Psalms77:2 When trouble came to me, I looked for the Lord to help me. All through the night, I lifted my hands to him while I prayed. But I did not feel peace in myself." 
Psalms77:3 When I think about God, I am sad and upset. I do not know if he will help me." 
Psalms77:4 God, you do not let me close my eyes to sleep. I am so upset that I cannot even speak." 
Psalms77:5 I think about my life long ago, in the years that have passed." 
Psalms77:6 At night, I remember the songs that I sang before. I think carefully about what is happening." 
Psalms77:7 I ask myself, ‘Will the Lord God always turn against me? Will he never be kind to me again?" 
Psalms77:8 Does he no longer have a faithful love for his people? Will he never do what he has promised us? 
Psalms77:9 Has God forgotten to be kind and help us? Is he so angry that he will not be kind to us any more?’ 
Psalms77:10 Then I said, ‘This makes me very upset! Has the Most High God stopped helping us?" 
Psalms77:11 I will remember the things that the Lord has done. Yes, I will remember the miracles that you did long ago." 
Psalms77:12 I will think about everything that you have done. I will think carefully about all those great things.’ 
Psalms77:13 God, your ways are holy. There is no god as great as our God." 
Psalms77:14 You are the God who does miracles. You show the nations that you are very powerful. 
Psalms77:15 You used your power to rescue your people. Yes, you saved the descendants of Jacob and Joseph." 
Psalms77:16 The waters of the sea saw you, God. When they saw you, they shook with fear! Even the deepest seas were afraid." 
Psalms77:17 Rain poured down from the clouds. The noise of thunder was in the skies. Your arrows of lightning shot everywhere. 
Psalms77:18 The sound of your thunder was in the storm. Your lightning made all the world bright. The earth shook. 
Psalms77:19 You went through the sea. Your path went through the deep water, but nobody saw where your feet had gone." 
Psalms77:20 You led your people, as a shepherd leads his sheep. Moses and Aaron did that for you." 
Psalms78:1 My people, listen to what I am teaching you. Listen to the words that I speak." 
Psalms78:2 I will tell you something to make you wise. Then you will understand things that happened long ago. 
Psalms78:3 We have heard about these things and we know them. Our ancestors have told them to us," 
Psalms78:4 and we will not hide them from our children. We will tell our children and our grandchildren why they should praise the Lord. We will tell them about his strength, and about the great things that he has done." 
Psalms78:5 He gave his laws to Jacob's descendants, the Israelite people. He commanded our ancestors to teach them to their children." 
Psalms78:6 Then the children would know about them, even the children still to be born. When the time came, they too would tell their children." 
Psalms78:7 Then their family would trust in God. They would not forget what God had done. They would obey his commands. 
Psalms78:8 So they would not be like their ancestors, who turned against God. Those people refused to obey God, and they did not trust him to be their guide." 
Psalms78:9 The soldiers of Ephraim had bows and arrows, but they ran away when the battle started!" 
Psalms78:10 They did not obey the covenant that God had made with them. They refused to obey his laws. 
Psalms78:11 They forgot about what he had done for them. They forgot the miracles that he had shown them. 
Psalms78:12 He did miracles for their ancestors to see, in the region of Egypt that is called Zoan." 
Psalms78:13 He divided the sea into two separate parts, and he led them through it. He made a path between two walls of water." 
Psalms78:14 He showed them the way with a cloud in the day and with light from a fire all night. 
Psalms78:15 He broke rocks into pieces in the wilderness so that his people had plenty of water. Springs of water came from deep in the earth. 
Psalms78:16 He caused streams to pour from the rocks so that the waters ran like rivers. 
Psalms78:17 But his people continued to do bad things against him. In the wilderness, they turned against the Most High God." 
Psalms78:18 They decided to test God, to see what he would do. They demanded to have the food that they liked best." 
Psalms78:19 They spoke against God, and they said, ‘Can God give us food to eat here in the wilderness?" 
Psalms78:20 Yes, water did come out when he hit the rock. The water poured out like a river. But can he also give us food to eat? Can he supply meat for his people?’" 
Psalms78:21 When the Lord heard this, he was very angry. So he sent fire to punish his people. He became very angry against the Israelites." 
Psalms78:22 They did not trust God, that he had the power to save them." 
Psalms78:23 So God commanded the clouds high above to give food to his people. He caused the skies to open like a door. 
Psalms78:24 He poured down manna like rain, so that they could eat grain that came from heaven." 
Psalms78:25 In that way, people ate the special bread of angels! God gave them all the food that they could eat." 
Psalms78:26 Then God caused a wind to blow from the east. He used his power to send a south wind too. 
Psalms78:27 He caused meat to pour down on them, like dust from the sky. The birds covered all the ground like sand on the shore of the sea." 
Psalms78:28 God made the birds fall near the tents where his people were living. 
Psalms78:29 They ate as much as they could eat. Yes, God gave them what they had demanded!" 
Psalms78:30 But God became very angry with them, even before they had finished eating. While the food was still in their mouths, he killed the strongest men among them. Many of the best young Israelite men died." 
Psalms78:31  
Psalms78:32 Even when this happened, the people continued to do bad things. When God had done these miracles, they still did not trust him to help them." 
Psalms78:33 So he made their lives finish quickly, like a breath. They became very afraid." 
Psalms78:34 When God killed some of them, the other people turned to God. They were sorry and they prayed to him." 
Psalms78:35 They remembered that God was their strong Rock. They remembered that the Most High God was their Redeemer. 
Psalms78:36 But they deceived him with their words. What they said to him was lies. 
Psalms78:37 They did not really trust him. They did not obey the covenant that he had made with them. 
Psalms78:38 But God was kind to them, and he forgave them for their sins. He did not destroy them. Many times he was patient, and he did not become angry with them." 
Psalms78:39 He remembered that they were weak and human, like a wind that blows away and does not return." 
Psalms78:40 When the Israelite people were in the wilderness, they often turned against God. That caused God to be very sad." 
Psalms78:41 Many times they tested God, the Holy One of Israel, so that he was very upset." 
Psalms78:42 They forgot about his great power, and how he rescued them from their enemies." 
Psalms78:43 He did powerful miracles in Egypt, in the region of Zoan." 
Psalms78:44 He caused the Egyptians' rivers to become blood, so that they could not drink water from them." 
Psalms78:45 He sent large numbers of flies to bite them. He sent frogs that destroyed their land. 
Psalms78:46 He caused locusts to eat their crops, and everything that grew in their fields." 
Psalms78:47 He destroyed their vines with hail. He destroyed their fig trees with frost. 
Psalms78:48 He sent hail to kill their cows. He sent lightning to kill their other animals. 
Psalms78:49 He was so angry with them, that he sent terrible things to punish them. Great trouble came to them, like an army of his angels that bring death." 
Psalms78:50 Nothing could stop his anger. He did not save them from death. He let bad diseases kill them. 
Psalms78:51 He killed all the firstborn sons in Egypt. The strongest men of Ham's descendants died. 
Psalms78:52 But God led his own people safely out of Egypt. He took them through the wilderness, like a shepherd leads his sheep." 
Psalms78:53 They were safe with him as their guide, and they were not afraid. But their enemies drowned in the sea." 
Psalms78:54 He brought his people to the edge of his holy land. It was land with the mountain that he had taken with his power. 
Psalms78:55 He chased away the nations that were living there. He gave to each tribe their own piece of land, so that Israel's tribes could live there." 
Psalms78:56 But the Israelites continued to test the Most High God, and they turned against him. They did not obey his commands." 
Psalms78:57 They turned away from him and they deceived him, as their ancestors had done. They were useless, like a bow that could not shoot straight!" 
Psalms78:58 The places where they worshipped their idols made God very angry. 
Psalms78:59 God heard what they were doing, and he became very angry. He turned against the Israelite people." 
Psalms78:60 He went away from his home at Shiloh, the tent where he lived among people." 
Psalms78:61 He let Israel's enemies take away the Covenant Box, that showed his power and his glory." 
Psalms78:62 He was so angry with his own people, he let their enemies kill them in battle." 
Psalms78:63 Fire killed their young men in war. There was nobody for the young women to marry. 
Psalms78:64 Their priests died in battle. Their widows had no chance to weep. 
Psalms78:65 Then the Lord God woke up, like someone had woken him from sleep. He shouted loudly, like a soldier who has drunk a lot of wine." 
Psalms78:66 He chased his enemies away. He caused them to be ashamed for ever. 
Psalms78:67 He chose not to live among Joseph's descendants. He did not choose the tribe of Ephraim. 
Psalms78:68 Instead, he chose the tribe of Judah. He chose Mount Zion, the place which he loves." 
Psalms78:69 There he built a temple for himself, to be like his home in heaven. He made it to be strong, like the earth itself, so that it would always be there." 
Psalms78:70 Also, he chose his servant, David. He took David away from the fields," 
Psalms78:71 so that he no longer took care of his father's sheep. He became like a shepherd, to lead his people, Jacob's descendants. He ruled the people who belonged to God, the Israelite people." 
Psalms78:72 David took care of them with an honest mind. He was wise in the way that he led them. 
Psalms79:1 God, foreign nations have attacked your own land. They have caused your holy temple to become unclean. They have destroyed the buildings in Jerusalem." 
Psalms79:2 They have let birds come down and eat the dead bodies of your people. Your servants have become food for wild animals to eat. 
Psalms79:3 The blood of your servants has poured out all over the streets of Jerusalem. There is nobody left there to bury their bodies. 
Psalms79:4 The nations that live near to us do not respect us. They laugh at us and they insult us. 
Psalms79:5 Lord, how long will this continue? Will you be angry with us for ever? Will you always be angry, like a fire that continues to burn?" 
Psalms79:6 Please punish those nations that do not respect you. Be angry with the kingdoms that do not pray to you. 
Psalms79:7 They have destroyed Jacob's descendants and the land where they live. 
Psalms79:8 Our ancestors did bad things, but do not say that we are guilty because of that. Be kind and send help to us quickly. We are in a lot of trouble!" 
Psalms79:9 God, help us! You are the one who can save us. Rescue us, so that people will respect your great name. Forgive our sins, so people know that you are good." 
Psalms79:10 Foreign nations are saying about us, ‘Their God cannot help them!’ That is not right! People of those nations have murdered your servants, so punish them for us to see." 
Psalms79:11 Listen to the prisoners who are in pain! They are calling out for help. Use your great power to make them free, before their enemies kill them." 
Psalms79:12 Lord, those countries near to us have insulted you. Punish them as they deserve, seven times over! Give them as much trouble as they have given to you." 
Psalms79:13 Then we will continue to thank you for ever. You take care of us, as the sheep in your field. We will tell our children and grandchildren to praise you, as you deserve." 
Psalms80:1 Shepherd of Israel, listen to us! You lead us, Joseph's family, as your sheep. God, you sit on your throne as king, above the cherubs. Show everyone your bright glory!" 
Psalms80:2 Shine on Ephraim, Benjamin and Manasseh. Show your great power! Come and rescue us!" 
Psalms80:3 God, turn us to come back to you. Look at us with a smile on your face! Then we will be safe." 
Psalms80:4 Lord God Almighty, we, your people, are praying to you. How long will you continue to be angry with us?" 
Psalms80:5 You have caused us to eat tears as our food. Buckets full of tears is what we drink. 
Psalms80:6 You have caused the people who live near us to laugh at us. Our enemies insult us. 
Psalms80:7 God Almighty, turn us to come back to you. Look at us with a smile on your face! Then we will be safe." 
Psalms80:8 You pulled us out from Egypt, like a vine that you dug out of the ground. You chased nations out of this land, and you planted us here." 
Psalms80:9 You prepared the ground ready for us. We put down roots like a vine. We grew well and we covered all the land. 
Psalms80:10 Our branches gave shade to the mountains, and to the big cedar trees." 
Psalms80:11 Our branches reached the Mediterranean Sea, and as far as the Euphrates River." 
Psalms80:12 Why have you knocked down the walls that protected us? Now, anyone who passes can rob our fruit." 
Psalms80:13 Wild pigs from the forest attack your vine. Other wild animals eat all the fruit. 
Psalms80:14 Come back to us, God Almighty! Look down from heaven and see what is happening! Take care of your special vine." 
Psalms80:15 You planted it with your own right hand. You caused it to grow, like a strong son." 
Psalms80:16 But now the enemy has cut down your vine, and they have burned it with fire. Show them that you are angry with them, and destroy them!" 
Psalms80:17 Give strength to the one who sits at your right hand. He is the man that you have chosen to serve you. 
Psalms80:18 Then we will never turn away from you. Give to us new life and strength, so that we may always worship you." 
Psalms80:19 Lord God Almighty, turn us to come back to you. Look at us with a smile on your face! Then we will be safe." 
Psalms81:1 Sing with joy to praise God! He is the one who makes us strong! Shout aloud to the God of Jacob. 
Psalms81:2 Start the music! Beat your tambourines! Make beautiful music on your harps and lyres. 
Psalms81:3 Start the New Moon Festival with the sound of the trumpet. Also do it on the day of the Full Moon. 
Psalms81:4 This is a rule for Israel's people. The God of Jacob commanded us to do it. 
Psalms81:5 When God punished the land of Egypt, he gave this rule to Joseph's family. I heard a voice that I did not know." 
Psalms81:6 It said: ‘I took the heavy load off your back. You no longer had to carry those heavy baskets. 
Psalms81:7 When you had trouble, you called to me for help and I made you safe. I answered your prayers from the middle of the dark storm. I tested you at Meribah, when you had no water in the wilderness." 
Psalms81:8 I said, “My people, listen to me! I warn you now. Listen carefully to me, Israel's people!" 
Psalms81:9 There must not be any strange god among you. You must never worship a foreign god. 
Psalms81:10 I am the Lord, your God. I brought you out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it with many good things.”" 
Psalms81:11 But my people refused to listen to me. My people, Israel, did not obey me." 
Psalms81:12 So I let them follow their own proud ideas. They could do whatever they wanted to do. 
Psalms81:13 But my people should listen to me! Yes, Israel should obey my commands!" 
Psalms81:14 Then I would quickly win against their enemies. I would attack them all.’ 
Psalms81:15 (Then people who hate the Lord would fall down with fear in front of him. They would be ashamed for ever.) 
Psalms81:16 ‘But I would feed you, my people, with the best wheat. I would give you plenty of honey from the rock, for you to eat and be full.’" 
Psalms82:1 God calls the powerful rulers to meet in heaven. He sits on his throne to judge them. 
Psalms82:2 He tells them, ‘You must no longer judge people in a way that is not fair. You must stop saying that wicked people are right." 
Psalms82:3 You must help poor people and those with no family to receive justice. Help those who are suffering to receive the help that they need. 
Psalms82:4 Rescue weak and helpless people, so that evil people cannot hurt them." 
Psalms82:5 The powerful leaders know nothing and they understand nothing. They walk about in a dark place. At the same time the foundation of the earth shakes! 
Psalms82:6 I said, “You are gods. You are all sons of the Most High God." 
Psalms82:7 But you will die, as all people die. You will come to an end, like all other rulers.” ’" 
Psalms82:8 God, now do something! Judge all the nations of the earth. For they all belong to you." 
Psalms83:1 God, do not continue to be silent! Do not remain quiet. Please do something!" 
Psalms83:2 Look! Your enemies are causing trouble. The people who hate you are ready to attack. 
Psalms83:3 They decide carefully how they will attack your people. They want to hurt the people that you love. 
Psalms83:4 They say, ‘Come now! We will destroy them. They will no longer be a nation. Nobody will remember the name of Israel any more.’" 
Psalms83:5 They agree together what they will do. They join one another to fight against you. 
Psalms83:6 Those enemies are Edomites and Ishmaelites, Moabites and Hagrites." 
Psalms83:7 They also come from Gebal, Ammon and Amalek, Philistia and Tyre." 
Psalms83:8 Even the Assyrian army has joined with them. They have given strength to Lot's descendants, the Moabites and the Ammonites." 
Psalms83:9 God, punish them as you punished Midian. Do what you did to Sisera and Jabin at the River Kishon." 
Psalms83:10 You destroyed them at Endor. Their bodies remained on the ground, like dirt." 
Psalms83:11 Do to their leaders what you did to Oreb and Zeeb. Let their rulers die, like Zebah and Zalmunna." 
Psalms83:12 Those people said, ‘Let us take God's valuable country for ourselves!’" 
Psalms83:13 God, blow them away like dust, like chaff that blows away in the wind!" 
Psalms83:14 Go after them, like a fire that burns both forest and mountains." 
Psalms83:15 Chase them away with your storms. Frighten them with your strong winds. 
Psalms83:16 Cause them to be very ashamed, Lord, so that they might turn to you." 
Psalms83:17 May they always be ashamed and frightened. Let them die with shame! 
Psalms83:18 Then they will understand that you are the Lord. They will know that you are the Most High God who rules over all the earth. 
Psalms84:1 Lord Almighty, the temple where you live is beautiful!" 
Psalms84:2 I want very much to go to the Lord 's temple. I very much want to be in the temple yards. With all that I am, and with great joy, I sing to you, the God who lives for ever!" 
Psalms84:3 In your temple, even sparrows have their homes. Swallows build their nests there, to take care of their babies. They can be near to your altars, Lord Almighty, my king and my God." 
Psalms84:4 You have truly blessed those people who live in your temple. They can praise you all the time! 
Psalms84:5 You have blessed those people who come to you to make them strong. They love to travel to your temple in Zion. 
Psalms84:6 As they go through the dry Baka Valley, springs of water appear there! The autumn rain covers the valley with pools." 
Psalms84:7 The people become stronger as they travel, until each one meets with God in Zion." 
Psalms84:8 Lord God Almighty, please listen to my prayer! God of Jacob, hear me!" 
Psalms84:9 God, look at our king, the one who protects us like a shield! Take care of the king that you have chosen." 
Psalms84:10 I would rather be near your temple for one day than have a thousand days anywhere else. I would rather stand at the entrance of God's temple than live among wicked people. 
Psalms84:11 The Lord God is like a sun and a shield for his people. He is kind to his people and he gives them honour. To those who do what is right, he gives every good thing that they need." 
Psalms84:12 Lord Almighty, you have truly blessed everyone who trusts in you!" 
Psalms85:1 Lord, you have blessed your land. You have made Jacob's descendants strong again." 
Psalms85:2 You forgave your people's sins. You took away their guilt. 
Psalms85:3 You stopped being so angry with them. You did not punish them any more. 
Psalms85:4 But now turn back to us, and make us strong again, God. You are the one who rescues us. Please stop being angry with us." 
Psalms85:5 Will you continue to be angry with us for ever? Will you be angry with our children too? 
Psalms85:6 Please turn back to us and give us new life! Then your people will be happy and they will praise you. 
Psalms85:7 Lord, show us again your faithful love! Please rescue us!" 
Psalms85:8 Now I will listen to what the Lord God says. He will give peace to his people, to those who serve him. But they must not turn back to do foolish things again." 
Psalms85:9 Yes, God will soon rescue his people who serve him. Then we will see his glory again in our land." 
Psalms85:10 God will be faithful to us and he will love us with his faithful love. His justice and his peace will join together, like friends that hug each other." 
Psalms85:11 Faithful truth will grow like a plant in the ground. Justice will look down from the sky above. 
Psalms85:12 Yes! The Lord will bless us with many good things. Plenty of food will grow in our land. 
Psalms85:13 Justice will go before our God, and it will make a way for him to walk on." 
Psalms86:1 Lord, please listen to me, and answer me! I am weak and I need help." 
Psalms86:2 I am your faithful servant, so keep my life safe! Please save me, my God, for I trust in you." 
Psalms86:3 My Lord, be kind to me. All through the day, I am calling to you for help." 
Psalms86:4 Please make me happy deep inside, for you are the one that I pray to, my Lord." 
Psalms86:5 Yes, my Lord, you are very kind, and you are ready to forgive people. When anyone calls to you for help, you love them with your faithful love." 
Psalms86:6 Lord, hear my prayer! Please listen when I call to you for help." 
Psalms86:7 Whenever trouble comes to me, I will pray to you. I know that you will answer me." 
Psalms86:8 There is no one like you, my Lord, among all the gods. Nobody can do the great things that you do." 
Psalms86:9 You have made all the nations of the world, and they will all come to worship you, my Lord. They will agree that your name is great." 
Psalms86:10 For you are great and you do great things. You alone are God. 
Psalms86:11 Lord, teach me how I should live. Then I will obey your truth. Teach me to serve you with all that I am, so that I respect you with fear." 
Psalms86:12 My Lord and my God, I will thank you with all my strength. I will praise your name for ever!" 
Psalms86:13 I know that you love me very much with your faithful love. You will continue to keep my life safe, so that I do not go down into the deep hole of death." 
Psalms86:14 God, proud people are attacking me. Cruel men have joined together to kill me. They do not respect you at all." 
Psalms86:15 But you, my Lord, are a kind God who forgives people. You do not quickly become angry, and your faithful love is very great. We can always trust you to do what you have promised." 
Psalms86:16 Turn to me and be kind to me. I am your servant, so make me strong. Please rescue your slave!" 
Psalms86:17 Help me, so that I know you are pleased with me. Then my enemies will see it, and they will be ashamed. They will know that you, Lord, have helped me and comforted me." 
Psalms87:1 The Lord built his city on the holy mountain. 
Psalms87:2 The Lord loves Zion city, more than any other place where Jacob's descendants live." 
Psalms87:3 People say great things about you! You are God's own city! 
Psalms87:4 I will speak about the nations that serve God. Rahab and Babylon are now among them, also Philistia, Tyre and Ethiopia. They say about themselves, ‘This man was born in Zion.’" 
Psalms87:5 They say this about Zion: ‘Each one of these people was born there.’ It is the Most High God who makes that city strong. 
Psalms87:6 The Lord will write a list of all their names. For the people from different nations, he will say, ‘This person was born in Zion.’" 
Psalms87:7 The singers and the musicians will say, ‘All our blessings come from you, Zion.’" 
Psalms88:1 Lord, you are the God who rescues me. I call out to you in the day, and I pray for help at night." 
Psalms88:2 Please listen to my prayer! I am calling to you for help! 
Psalms88:3 There is a lot of trouble in my life. I feel that I am near to death. 
Psalms88:4 People see me as if I am already in my grave. I feel completely helpless. 
Psalms88:5 I am the same as people who have died. Their bodies already lie in their graves. You do not remember them any more. You cannot use your power to help them. 
Psalms88:6 You have put me in the deep hole of death, far down in a very dark place." 
Psalms88:7 Your anger is very heavy on me. It is like the waves of the sea that knock me down. 
Psalms88:8 You have caused my best friends to keep away from me. They do not even want to look at me. A trap has caught me and I cannot escape. 
Psalms88:9 My eyes have become weak because I am so sad. Lord, every day I call to you for help. I lift my hands up to you as I pray." 
Psalms88:10 Your great miracles do not help dead people! Dead people cannot get up and praise you! 
Psalms88:11 People in their graves cannot talk about your faithful love! In the world of death, they cannot say how faithful you are." 
Psalms88:12 In those dark places, they do not see your miracles. In that place where people forget everything, they cannot know about the good things that you do." 
Psalms88:13 But as for me, Lord, I call to you for help. Every morning I pray to you." 
Psalms88:14 Lord, why do you throw me out? Why do you turn away from me?" 
Psalms88:15 Since I was young, I have been in pain. I have always been near to death. You have caused bad troubles to frighten me, so that I feel helpless." 
Psalms88:16 Your anger is too much for me! You are attacking me and destroying me! 
Psalms88:17 The troubles that you send are all around me, like a flood of deep water. They come very near to me, on every side." 
Psalms88:18 You cause my friends and my neighbours to stay away from me. All that I have near to me is darkness. 
Psalms89:1 I will always sing about the Lord 's faithful love. I will tell my children and my grandchildren that you are always faithful. 
Psalms89:2 Yes! Your faithful love will always continue to be strong. You will always be faithful, as the skies will always be there." 
Psalms89:3 The Lord has said, ‘I have made a covenant with the king that I chose. I have made this strong promise to my servant David:" 
Psalms89:4 “Someone from your family will always be king. Your descendants will continue to rule for ever.” ’ 
Psalms89:5 Lord, everything in heaven praises you for the great things that you have done. Yes, your angels meet together to praise you, because you are always faithful." 
Psalms89:6 In all the heavens, there is no one like you, Lord! No angel in heaven is equal to you." 
Psalms89:7 When the angels meet together in heaven, they give you honour. All who meet round your throne in heaven respect you, as you deserve." 
Psalms89:8 Lord God Almighty, no one is as powerful as you! You are always faithful in all that you do!" 
Psalms89:9 You rule over the powerful sea. When the waves rise up, you make them quiet again." 
Psalms89:10 You caught the monster Rahab and you killed it! With your power, you chased away your enemies." 
Psalms89:11 The heavens belong to you and so does the earth. You made the world and everything that is in it. 
Psalms89:12 You made everything, from the north to the south. Tabor and Hermon are happy to praise your name." 
Psalms89:13 You have great strength, and you can do great things. You hold up your right hand, as you win against your enemies." 
Psalms89:14 As King, you rule with justice, and you always do what is right. You show your faithful love and you are faithful." 
Psalms89:15 You have truly blessed the people who know how to praise you, Lord. They know that you are pleased with them." 
Psalms89:16 They praise your name all the time. Your justice makes them happy. 
Psalms89:17 You give strength and glory to your people. Because you are kind to us, we win against our enemies." 
Psalms89:18 Yes! Our king belongs to the Lord, and he protects us like a shield. Our king belongs to the Holy One of Israel." 
Psalms89:19 A long time ago, Lord, you spoke to your servants. In a vision, you said to them, ‘I have helped a brave soldier to be strong. I have chosen as king a young man from among the people." 
Psalms89:20 I have found David, my servant. I have poured my special oil on him, to make him king." 
Psalms89:21 I will help him with my power, so that he is strong." 
Psalms89:22 No enemy will win against him. No cruel people will have power to hurt him. 
Psalms89:23 I will destroy his enemies in front of him. I will kill those who hate him. 
Psalms89:24 I will always be faithful and show him my faithful love. By my name he will win against his enemies. 
Psalms89:25 I will cause his kingdom to reach beyond the sea and the rivers. 
Psalms89:26 The king will say to me, “You are my Father. You are my God. You protect me and you rescue me.”" 
Psalms89:27 Also, I will make him my firstborn son. He will be the greatest of the kings of the earth." 
Psalms89:28 I will always love him with my faithful love. I will never change the covenant that I have made with him. 
Psalms89:29 Someone from his family will always be king. They will rule for ever, as long as there are skies above us." 
Psalms89:30 But I will punish his descendants, if they do not accept my laws. If they do not obey my teaching, my rules, or my commands," 
Psalms89:31  
Psalms89:32 I will punish them. Because of their sins, I will cause them to suffer." 
Psalms89:33 But I will not take my faithful love away from David. I will always be faithful, and I will do what I have promised to him." 
Psalms89:34 I will not spoil the covenant that I have made with him. I will always do what I have promised to do. 
Psalms89:35 I made a promise to David at one time, and that will not change. I promised him by my holy name and I will never deceive him." 
Psalms89:36 His descendants will always rule. His kingdom will continue to be there for ever, as long as the sun shines." 
Psalms89:37 As the moon is always there in the sky, to show that God is faithful, David's kingdom will also continue.’" 
Psalms89:38 But now you have turned against your king. You have become angry with the king that you have chosen. 
Psalms89:39 You have spoiled the covenant that you made with your servant. You have thrown his crown into the dirt. 
Psalms89:40 You have knocked down all the walls of his city. You have destroyed all his strong places. 
Psalms89:41 Every stranger robs him of his things. His neighbours laugh at him. 
Psalms89:42 You have made his enemies strong, so that they win against him and they are happy." 
Psalms89:43 You have made his weapons useless, so that he cannot win against his enemies in war." 
Psalms89:44 You have taken away his authority as king. You have knocked down his throne to the ground. 
Psalms89:45 He no longer has the strength of a young man. You have dressed him in clothes of shame. 
Psalms89:46 Lord, how long will this continue? Will you hide yourself from us for ever? Will your anger continue to burn like a fire?" 
Psalms89:47 Remember that my life is very short! People are weak and their lives seem useless. Why do you make people like that? 
Psalms89:48 Nobody can continue to live and never die. Nobody can escape from the power of death. 
Psalms89:49 My Lord, where is the faithful love that you showed to us in past times? Where are the blessings that you promised to David?" 
Psalms89:50 My Lord, look at how people are insulting me! People from all nations laugh at me, your servant." 
Psalms89:51 Lord, your enemies insult the king that you have chosen. Wherever I go, they insult me!" 
Psalms89:52 Praise the Lord as he deserves! Yes! Amen! We agree! 
Psalms90:1 Lord God, from long ago, you have always been a safe home for us." 
Psalms90:2 From before the mountains began, and before you made the world, you were already there, as God. You have no beginning and no end." 
Psalms90:3 People return to dust in the ground when they die. You say, ‘Become dust again, you people.’" 
Psalms90:4 For you, a thousand years is only a short time. They pass as quickly as a day for you, or just a few hours in the night." 
Psalms90:5 You cause people's lives to end, as a dream finishes when you wake up. People are like grass that appears in the morning." 
Psalms90:6 During the morning, it grows well. By the evening, it is dry and it dies." 
Psalms90:7 Your anger destroys us, and we become very afraid." 
Psalms90:8 All our sins are there for you to see. You even see the sins that we have tried to hide. 
Psalms90:9 Your anger gives us trouble all through our lives. Then our lives finish like a short breath. 
Psalms90:10 The number of days that we live make 70 years, or maybe 80 years if we are strong enough. But even in the best years of our lives, we have trouble and we suffer. Our lives quickly pass, and we hurry towards death." 
Psalms90:11 Lord, nobody knows all the power of your anger. It is your anger that causes people to be afraid of you." 
Psalms90:12 Teach us to count carefully the days of our short lives. Then we will be wise in how we live. 
Psalms90:13 Lord, return to help us! How long will you be angry with us? Please be kind to us, your servants!" 
Psalms90:14 Show your faithful love to us every morning. Then we will sing with joy. We will be happy for as long as we live. 
Psalms90:15 For many years you have caused us to suffer. Now, please make us happy for as many years as you have given us trouble." 
Psalms90:16 Do great things again, so that we, your servants, see them! Let our children see that you rule as King!" 
Psalms90:17 Yes, may the Lord our God bless us. May everything that we do have success. Yes, may everything go well!" 
Psalms91:1 If anyone lives in Almighty God's safe place, the Most High God protects them." 
Psalms91:2 I will say to the Lord, ‘You are the strong place where I will be safe. You are my God, and I trust in you.’" 
Psalms91:3 God will keep you safe, so that no trap will catch you. He will not let any illness kill you." 
Psalms91:4 He will keep you safe, like a bird keeps its babies safe under its wings. Because he is faithful, he will keep you safe like a shield and armour." 
Psalms91:5 Do not be afraid of danger that comes in the night, or of your enemy's arrows during the day." 
Psalms91:6 Do not be afraid of any illness that comes when it is dark, or any trouble that comes in the middle of the day." 
Psalms91:7 A thousand people may die near you. Even ten thousand people may die at your side. But nothing will hurt you. 
Psalms91:8 Your own eyes will see this happen. You will see wicked people receive the punishment that they deserve. 
Psalms91:9 You have come to the Lord to make you safe. The Most High God has become your home. 
Psalms91:10 No bad thing will happen to you. No illness will come to your home. 
Psalms91:11 For God will tell his angels to keep you safe. They will protect you wherever you go. 
Psalms91:12 They will hold you safely in their hands, so that you do not hurt your foot on a stone." 
Psalms91:13 You will win against lions and snakes. You will walk over them! 
Psalms91:14 The Lord says, ‘If someone loves me, I will keep him safe. Because he worships me, I will protect him." 
Psalms91:15 When he calls to me for help, I will answer him. When he has trouble, I will be with him. I will rescue him, and people will respect him." 
Psalms91:16 I will give him a long life, so that he is happy. He will see that I have the power to save people.’" 
Psalms92:1 It is good to thank the Lord! We sing to praise your name, Most High God." 
Psalms92:2 We sing in the morning to thank you for your great love. We sing at night to say that you are always faithful. 
Psalms92:3 We make beautiful music with lutes, harps and lyres." 
Psalms92:4 The things that you do, Lord, make me very happy. I sing with joy because of everything that your hands have made!" 
Psalms92:5 Yes, Lord, you have done great things! Your thoughts are more than we can understand!" 
Psalms92:6 This is something that stupid people do not know. Fools do not understand it. 
Psalms92:7 Wicked people may continue to grow, like green grass. Evil people may grow like weeds. But in the end you will destroy them and they will never grow again." 
Psalms92:8 You, Lord, will rule as King for ever!" 
Psalms92:9 Yes, Lord, look at your enemies! Your enemies will all die! Those people who do evil things will all disappear!" 
Psalms92:10 You have made me as strong as a wild bull. You have poured pure olive oil on me. 
Psalms92:11 With my own eyes, I have seen my enemies fall. With my own ears, I have heard them cry out in pain." 
Psalms92:12 Righteous people will do well, like a palm tree that makes new leaves. They will become strong, like a tall cedar tree in Lebanon." 
Psalms92:13 They are like trees that someone has planted in the Lord 's house. They grow well in the yard of our God's temple. 
Psalms92:14 When they are old, they will still give fruit! They will always be strong, with fresh, green leaves." 
Psalms92:15 Righteous people will tell everyone, ‘The Lord always does what is right. He is my strong, safe rock. There is nothing bad in him.’" 
Psalms93:1 The Lord rules as King! He wears royal power as his clothes. His strength is like a belt around his body. So the world is safe and strong. Nothing can shake it from its place. 
Psalms93:2 You, Lord, have always ruled as King, since before the beginning of time." 
Psalms93:3 The floods of water have risen up, Lord. They have risen with a loud noise. Their waves beat against the land." 
Psalms93:4 But the Lord rules as King high above everything! He rules over the powerful waves of the sea, with all their great noise!" 
Psalms93:5 Lord, your rules remain strong and true. Your house will always be holy, because you are holy." 
Psalms94:1 Lord, you are the God who punishes guilty people. God, show your power to punish people as they deserve!" 
Psalms94:2 Judge of all people on the earth, do something! Punish proud people as they deserve!" 
Psalms94:3 How long will wicked people continue to be happy? Yes, Lord, how long?" 
Psalms94:4 Those people who do evil things speak many proud words. They boast about how great they are. 
Psalms94:5 Lord, see how they hurt your own people. They are cruel to the people who belong to you." 
Psalms94:6 They kill widows and foreign people who live in our land. They murder children who have no family. 
Psalms94:7 They say, ‘The Lord does not see us. Israel's God does not see what we are doing.’" 
Psalms94:8 Think again, all you fools among the people! Stupid people, become wise!" 
Psalms94:9 God made our ears! Can he himself not hear? He made our eyes! Does he not see? 
Psalms94:10 He teaches the nations what is right. Will he not punish you, when you do what is wrong? He teaches people what they should know." 
Psalms94:11 The Lord knows what people think. He knows that their thoughts are empty. 
Psalms94:12 Lord, when you teach people what is right, you have really blessed them. You use your Law to teach them." 
Psalms94:13 When those people have troubles, you keep them safe. Then the wicked people fall into a deep hole that you have dug to catch them." 
Psalms94:14 The Lord will not leave his people alone. He will not forget to help the people who belong to him. 
Psalms94:15 Once again, judges will do what is right and fair, and good, honest people will agree." 
Psalms94:16 Who would fight for me against the wicked people? Who would keep me safe from those people who do evil things? 
Psalms94:17 Unless the Lord had helped me, I would soon have become silent in death." 
Psalms94:18 When I think, ‘I am falling down,’ your faithful love keeps me safe, Lord." 
Psalms94:19 When I have troubles in my mind, so that I am afraid, you help me to be happy again." 
Psalms94:20 You will not become a friend of cruel rulers. They make laws that only hurt people. 
Psalms94:21 They join together to work against good people. They say that people are guilty who have done nothing wrong. They say that they must die. 
Psalms94:22 But the Lord is a strong place for me. Yes, my God is a rock where I can hide and be safe." 
Psalms94:23 He will punish those wicked leaders. He will destroy them, because they do evil things. The Lord our God will completely destroy them." 
Psalms95:1 Come now! Let us sing together to worship the Lord! We will shout aloud to praise God, the strong Rock who makes us safe!" 
Psalms95:2 Let us come near to God and thank him! Let us sing songs to praise him, because we are so happy!" 
Psalms95:3 Yes, the Lord is the great God. He is the great king who rules over all gods." 
Psalms95:4 The deepest places of the earth are in his hand. The highest mountains belong to him. 
Psalms95:5 The seas are his, because he made them. He also made the dry land, with his own hands." 
Psalms95:6 Come now! Let us bend down to worship him! Let us bend our knees in front of the Lord. He is the one who made us. 
Psalms95:7 He is our God. He takes care of us, like a shepherd takes care of his sheep. As his sheep, he gives us what we need. Today, you must listen to him and obey him." 
Psalms95:8 He says, ‘Do not refuse to obey me, like my people did at Meribah. They also did that one day at Massah, in the desert." 
Psalms95:9 Your ancestors tested me there, to see if I would punish them. But they had already seen the great things that I had done for them!" 
Psalms95:10 So I was angry with those people all the time for 40 years. I said, “These people love to go the wrong way. They refuse to follow my ways.”" 
Psalms95:11 I was very angry and I promised, “They will never come into my place of rest.” ’" 
Psalms96:1 Sing a new song to praise the Lord! All the world, sing to praise the Lord!" 
Psalms96:2 Sing to praise the Lord 's great name! Every day, tell people the message that he has rescued us." 
Psalms96:3 Tell the other nations that he is very great. Tell all of them about the great things that he has done. 
Psalms96:4 Yes, the Lord is great! Everyone should praise him as he deserves. People should respect him with fear, more than all other gods." 
Psalms96:5 All the other nations' gods are useless idols, but the Lord made the heavens." 
Psalms96:6 We see that he is a very great king. His holy home is full of his power and his beauty. 
Psalms96:7 You people of other nations, recognize that the Lord is great and powerful." 
Psalms96:8 Agree that the Lord 's name is great. Bring an offering to him in his temple. 
Psalms96:9 Worship the Lord, who is beautiful and holy. Everyone on earth must shake with fear in front of him." 
Psalms96:10 Tell all the nations, ‘The Lord rules as King!’ He has fixed the world in its place, so that nothing can shake it. He will judge all the people of the world fairly." 
Psalms96:11 The earth and the sky should be happy! The sea and everything in it should shout aloud! 
Psalms96:12 The fields and all their crops should shout with joy! Then all the trees in the forests will also sing because they are so happy! 
Psalms96:13 They will sing to praise the Lord, for he will come to judge the earth. He is a fair judge. He will judge all the people of the world with his truth." 
Psalms97:1 The Lord rules as king! Everyone on earth should be happy! The people who live on the shore of the seas should sing with joy! 
Psalms97:2 Dark clouds are all around the Lord. He rules with justice, and he is fair to everyone." 
Psalms97:3 Fire goes in front of him. It burns up his enemies on every side. 
Psalms97:4 His lightning lights up the whole world. The earth sees it and it shakes with fear. 
Psalms97:5 The mountains melt like butter in front of the Lord, when they see the Lord of the whole earth." 
Psalms97:6 The sky itself tells us that he is righteous People from every nation see his glory. 
Psalms97:7 Everyone who worships idols should be ashamed. They should not boast about useless idols! All gods like that will fall down in front of the Lord. 
Psalms97:8 When Zion's people hear about it, they will be happy. Yes, the people of Judah will be very happy! They will be happy, Lord, because you bring justice." 
Psalms97:9 You, Lord, are the Most High God who rules over all the earth. You are much greater than any other god!" 
Psalms97:10 If you love the Lord, then hate anything that is evil. The Lord protects the lives of those who serve him. He keeps them safe from the power of wicked people." 
Psalms97:11 God's light shines on righteous people. Good, honest people will be very happy." 
Psalms97:12 All you righteous people, be happy because of what the Lord has done. Thank him because he is holy." 
Psalms98:1 Sing a new song to praise the Lord. He has done great things. He has used his own power and his holy strength to win against his enemies. 
Psalms98:2 The Lord has shown everybody that he has the power to save. All the nations of the world can see that he does what is right. 
Psalms98:3 He has been faithful to his promise that he made to the people of Israel. He has continued to take care of them with his faithful love. Everyone who lives anywhere on the earth can see that God has the power to save people. 
Psalms98:4 All people on the earth should shout aloud to praise the Lord! Sing happy songs to praise him! 
Psalms98:5 Make music on your harps to praise him! Make beautiful music! 
Psalms98:6 Make a happy sound with trumpets and horns! Shout aloud to praise the Lord, your king!" 
Psalms98:7 The sea and everything that is in it should shout to praise the Lord! The earth and all those who live in it should shout as well! 
Psalms98:8 The rivers should clap their hands, and the mountains should all sing together," 
Psalms98:9 to praise the Lord. He is coming to judge the earth. He is a fair judge. He will judge all the people of the world honestly. 
Psalms99:1 The Lord rules as king! People on earth should shake with fear! The Lord sits on his throne as king above the cherubs! The earth itself should shake! 
Psalms99:2 The Lord is a great king in Zion. He rules with power over all the world's nations. 
Psalms99:3 So they should all praise your great name. It is a name that brings fear! The Lord is holy! 
Psalms99:4 You are a strong king who loves justice. You have made fair rules, so that people in Israel do what is right." 
Psalms99:5 Praise the Lord our God! Worship him as king. He is holy! 
Psalms99:6 Moses and Aaron were two of his priests. Samuel was among those who prayed to him. They prayed to the Lord and he answered them. 
Psalms99:7 He spoke to them from the pillar of cloud. They obeyed his rules and his commands. 
Psalms99:8 Yes, you answered them, Lord our God. You forgave the sins of your people. But when they did wrong things, you punished them." 
Psalms99:9 Praise the Lord our God! Go and worship him on his holy hill, because the Lord our God is holy!" 
Psalms100:1 Everyone on earth, shout and praise the Lord!" 
Psalms100:2 Worship the Lord and be happy! Come near to him with songs of joy. 
Psalms100:3 Understand that the Lord is God. He made us and we are his people. He takes care of us, like a shepherd with his sheep." 
Psalms100:4 Thank him as you go through the gates into his temple. Praise him as you stand in his temple yards. Thank him and praise him as he deserves! 
Psalms100:5 Yes, the Lord is good. He always loves us as his people. He always does what he has promised to us and to our descendants for ever." 
Psalms101:1 I will sing and praise you, Lord! I will sing about your faithful love and your justice." 
Psalms101:2 I will be careful to live in a completely good way. When will you come to help me, Lord? In my own home, I will always be completely honest." 
Psalms101:3 As for evil things, I will not even think about them. I hate the things that wicked people do. They will not be my friends." 
Psalms101:4 I will keep away from people with wrong thoughts. I will not mix with them. 
Psalms101:5 If anyone secretly speaks against his friend, I will destroy them. If anyone is proud and they boast about themselves, I will send them away from me." 
Psalms101:6 Instead, I will work with people that I can trust. I will let them live with me and be my guides. My servants will be people who live in an honest way." 
Psalms101:7 People who deceive others or who tell lies will not have a place in my home. 
Psalms101:8 Every morning I will remove any wicked person who lives in our land. Nobody who does evil things will remain in the city of the Lord. 
Psalms102:1 Lord, please hear my prayer! Listen to me when I call to you for help." 
Psalms102:2 Now that I am in trouble, please do not turn away from me. Listen carefully to me. Now that I am calling to you for help, please answer me quickly." 
Psalms102:3 My life is quickly disappearing, like smoke from a fire. My bones hurt very much, as if they were burning in an oven." 
Psalms102:4 I am very weak and upset, like dry grass that will soon die. I even forget to eat my food." 
Psalms102:5 I cry aloud with pain, so that I am just skin and bones." 
Psalms102:6 I am like a wild bird in the desert. I am like an owl in the wilderness. 
Psalms102:7 I am awake in the night, like a bird that sits alone on the roof." 
Psalms102:8 All day my enemies insult me. They laugh at me and they use my name as a curse. 
Psalms102:9 Because you are so angry with me, I eat ashes as my food. My tears drop into the water that I drink. It seems that you have picked me up, and then you have thrown me away." 
Psalms102:10  
Psalms102:11 My days are disappearing, like a shadow in the evening. Like dry grass, I will soon die." 
Psalms102:12 But you, Lord, rule for ever as king. People will always remember you." 
Psalms102:13 You will soon be kind to Zion again. Now it is time to forgive her. Yes, the time is now right for you to do that." 
Psalms102:14 Her buildings have become broken stones and dust. But your servants still love your city. We are sad to see that it is broken down. 
Psalms102:15 The nations will respect the Lord 's name. All the kings of the world will praise your glory. 
Psalms102:16 That will happen when the Lord builds Zion again and he appears there in his glory. 
Psalms102:17 He will answer the prayers of poor people who have nothing. He will not refuse to help them. 
Psalms102:18 Write these things down for people who live in future times to read. Then they too will praise the Lord. 
Psalms102:19 Tell them that the Lord looked down from his home in heaven. He saw what was happening on the earth. 
Psalms102:20 He heard the prisoners call out in pain. He saved the lives of prisoners so they could go free before their enemies could kill them. 
Psalms102:21 As a result, people will shout the Lord 's name in Zion. Yes, they will praise him in Jerusalem!" 
Psalms102:22 At that time, people from all nations will meet together. The kingdoms of the world will come to serve the Lord." 
Psalms102:23 But God has made me weak before I have reached old age. He has made my life short. 
Psalms102:24 So I pray, ‘My God, please do not let me die now, in the middle of my life. The years of your life continue for ever!" 
Psalms102:25 Long ago, you built the world on a strong foundation. You created the heavens with your own hands." 
Psalms102:26 They will all disappear one day, but you will remain. They will become spoiled, like old clothes. Like clothes, you will remove them, so that they disappear." 
Psalms102:27 But you remain the same. The years of your life will never finish. 
Psalms102:28 As your servants, our children will live here safely. Their descendants too will be safe, as they live near to you.’" 
Psalms103:1 I say to myself, ‘ Praise the Lord!’ Everything that is in me, praise his holy name!" 
Psalms103:2 I say to myself, ‘Praise the Lord!’ Never forget all the good things that he has done for you!" 
Psalms103:3 He forgives all my sins. He makes me well again when I am ill. 
Psalms103:4 He saves me from the deep hole of death's power. He always loves me and he is kind to me. That is how he blesses me so much! 
Psalms103:5 He gives me many good things for my life here. So I become strong again, with the strength of a young eagle." 
Psalms103:6 The Lord does what is right and fair. He helps poor people who suffer. 
Psalms103:7 He showed Moses how he works to help his people. He showed the Israelites the great things that he could do. 
Psalms103:8 The Lord is kind to people and he forgives them. He is slow to become angry and his faithful love always continues. 
Psalms103:9 He will not always tell us that we are wrong. He will not always continue to be angry. 
Psalms103:10 We should receive much punishment for the bad things that we do. But the Lord does not punish us so much. 
Psalms103:11 For people who worship him, his faithful love is very great. How far is the sky above the earth? His love is greater than that!" 
Psalms103:12 How far is the east from the west? The Lord has taken our sins further away than that! He no longer says that we are guilty. 
Psalms103:13 As a father is kind to his children, the Lord is kind to us. He is kind to people who worship him." 
Psalms103:14 He knows that we are weak humans. He remembers that he used dust to make us. 
Psalms103:15 A person's life is like grass that quickly dies. He is strong only for a short time, like wild flowers in a field." 
Psalms103:16 A hot wind blows over flowers and they die! Nobody even remembers where they were growing. 
Psalms103:17 But the faithful love of the Lord will always be with people who worship him. He promises to be kind to their descendants for ever. 
Psalms103:18 He continues to love people who obey his covenant. Those are the people who obey his laws. 
Psalms103:19 The Lord rules from his throne in heaven. He rules as king over everything. 
Psalms103:20 You who are the Lord 's angels, you strong angels who do what he tells you to do, praise the Lord!" 
Psalms103:21 All of you who belong to his armies in heaven, his servants who do what he wants, praise the Lord!" 
Psalms103:22 Yes, everything that the Lord has made, in all the places that he rules over, praise the Lord! I say to myself, ‘Praise the Lord!’" 
Psalms104:1 I say to myself, ‘ Praise the Lord!’ Lord, my God, you are very great! You rule with authority as a great king." 
Psalms104:2 Light is all around you, like the clothes that you wear. You have put the skies as a roof over the earth." 
Psalms104:3 You have built the beams of your home on the clouds of rain. The clouds carry you as you travel, and you ride on the wind." 
Psalms104:4 You use the winds to carry your messages. Flames of fire are your servants. 
Psalms104:5 You, Lord, built the earth on its strong foundations. Nothing will ever shake it from its place." 
Psalms104:6 You covered the earth with deep water, like a coat. The water covered the tops of the mountains." 
Psalms104:7 But when you shouted, the water went back. It ran away, when you shouted like thunder." 
Psalms104:8 The water poured down from the mountains, and it went down into the valleys. It went to stay in the place that you had chosen for it." 
Psalms104:9 You made a border for the water so that it could not pass across. Never again will the water cover the earth. 
Psalms104:10 You cause springs of water to pour along the valleys. Streams of water run between the hills. 
Psalms104:11 They give water to all the wild animals. Wild donkeys drink from them. 
Psalms104:12 The birds make their homes beside the streams. They sing from the branches of the trees. 
Psalms104:13 You pour down rain on the mountains from your home above the sky. You cause many fruits to grow on the earth. 
Psalms104:14 You give grass for farm animals to eat. You give crops for people to plant. In that way, people get food from the ground." 
Psalms104:15 They grow grapes for wine, which makes them happy. They grow olive trees for oil, which makes their faces shine. They grow grain for bread, which makes them strong." 
Psalms104:16 The Lord 's own trees receive plenty of rain. They are the cedar trees that he planted in Lebanon. 
Psalms104:17 The birds make their nests there. Storks live there in the fir trees. 
Psalms104:18 The wild goats live high up in the mountains. Rock badgers hide among the rocks. 
Psalms104:19 You made the moon to show us the months and seasons. The sun also knows the right time for sunset. 
Psalms104:20 At night you make it dark, so that the forest animals come out." 
Psalms104:21 The lions roar while they look for animals to kill. They look for the food that God gives to them. 
Psalms104:22 At sunrise, they go back to their homes, and they lie down to rest." 
Psalms104:23 During the day, people go out to work. They work at their jobs until it is evening." 
Psalms104:24 Lord, you have made very many different things! You were very wise in the way that you have made them all. The earth is full of the living things that you have made." 
Psalms104:25 Look at the sea, which is deep and wide! It is full of living things, which are both large and small. They are more than anyone can count." 
Psalms104:26 Ships travel on the sea. You made the monster, Leviathan, to swim and to play in the sea." 
Psalms104:27 All these living things wait for you to give them their food when they need it. 
Psalms104:28 When you give it to them, they take it. You open your hand to feed them, and they have plenty of good things." 
Psalms104:29 When you turn away from them, they become very afraid. When you take away their breath, they die and they return to the dust." 
Psalms104:30 But when you breathe into anything, it receives life. In that way, you bring new life to the earth." 
Psalms104:31 I pray that the glory of the Lord will continue for ever! I pray that the Lord will be happy with everything that he has made! 
Psalms104:32 When he looks down at the earth, it shakes! When he touches the mountains, they pour out smoke!" 
Psalms104:33 All my life, I will sing to praise the Lord. I will always sing songs to praise my God, for as long as I live." 
Psalms104:34 I want my song to make him happy. I will be happy, because of what the Lord has done." 
Psalms104:35 I pray that wicked people will disappear from the earth. May they disappear for ever! I say to myself, ‘Praise the Lord! Hallelujah!’" 
Psalms105:1 Thank the Lord! Make his name famous! Tell people in all the nations what he has done. 
Psalms105:2 Sing songs and make music to praise him! Tell people about the miracles that he has done. 
Psalms105:3 Boast about his holy name. Everybody who wants to worship the Lord should be very happy! 
Psalms105:4 Ask the Lord to help you. Ask him to give you strength. Come near to him and worship him. 
Psalms105:5 Remember the great things that he has done. Remember his miracles, and the commands that he has spoken." 
Psalms105:6 Remember that you are descendants of God's servant, Abraham. You are Jacob's descendants, and God has chosen you to be his people." 
Psalms105:7 He is the Lord, our God. He rules the whole earth with justice." 
Psalms105:8 He will always remember the covenant that he made with us. He made that promise to continue for ever. 
Psalms105:9 That is the promise that he made to Abraham, and that he also made to Isaac." 
Psalms105:10 He repeated it to Jacob as a law. It was a covenant with Israel's people that would continue for ever. 
Psalms105:11 He promised Jacob, ‘I will give you the land of Canaan. It will belong to you, and to your descendants.’" 
Psalms105:12 At that time, God's people were only a few. They lived in Canaan as strangers." 
Psalms105:13 They travelled among different nations and different kingdoms. 
Psalms105:14 But the Lord did not let anyone hurt them. He punished kings to keep his people safe. 
Psalms105:15 He said, ‘Do not even touch the people that I have chosen to be mine. Do not hurt my prophets.’" 
Psalms105:16 The Lord sent a famine to the land of Canaan, so that his people had no food left to eat." 
Psalms105:17 But he sent Joseph to Egypt before Jacob's family went there to get food. Joseph's brothers had sold him as a slave. 
Psalms105:18 In Egypt the chains on his feet hurt him. He had a heavy piece of iron around his neck. 
Psalms105:19 Joseph remained in prison until what he said would happen really happened. Then the Lord showed that Joseph was right. 
Psalms105:20 The powerful king of Egypt let Joseph go free out of prison. 
Psalms105:21 The king made Joseph master of his palace. Joseph took care of everything that belonged to the king. 
Psalms105:22 The king gave him authority over his officers. Joseph could teach the king's officers, so that they would know what to do." 
Psalms105:23 Then Jacob's family came into Egypt. They lived as strangers in the land of Ham's descendants. 
Psalms105:24 The Lord gave many children to his people. They became more powerful than their enemies. 
Psalms105:25 So the Egyptians began to hate God's people. They did cruel things to the Lord 's people. 
Psalms105:26 The Lord sent his servant Moses to help his people in Egypt. He also chose Aaron to help them. 
Psalms105:27 Moses and Aaron did many miracles in Egypt, where Ham's descendants lived. They showed the Lord 's great power to the Egyptians." 
Psalms105:28 God made all the land become dark. But the Egyptians did not obey God's command. 
Psalms105:29 God caused their rivers to become blood, and he killed their fish." 
Psalms105:30 Frogs covered all their land. They even went into the bedrooms of the palace! 
Psalms105:31 The Lord commanded flies and gnats to cover everywhere that the Egyptians lived. 
Psalms105:32 He sent hail with the rain, and there was lightning everywhere." 
Psalms105:33 He destroyed the Egyptians' vines and fig trees. He knocked down the trees everywhere in their land. 
Psalms105:34 He commanded many locusts to come. There were too many locusts to count! 
Psalms105:35 They ate all the plants in their land, and all the crops in their fields." 
Psalms105:36 Then the Lord killed all the firstborn sons in Egypt. He killed the oldest son in each family. 
Psalms105:37 So the Lord led his people out from Egypt. They took with them valuable silver and gold things. Nobody among the Israelite people was too weak to go. 
Psalms105:38 The Egyptians were happy when they went, because they were afraid of the Israelites." 
Psalms105:39 The Lord made a cloud to cover his people and a fire to give them light at night. 
Psalms105:40 When they asked him for food, he gave them quails to eat. He fed them with bread from heaven." 
Psalms105:41 He broke a rock, so that water poured out from it. It ran as a river through the dry places." 
Psalms105:42 Yes, the Lord remembered the holy promise that he had made to his servant, Abraham." 
Psalms105:43 So he led his people out from Egypt, and they were very happy! They were the people that he had chosen for himself, and they shouted with joy!" 
Psalms105:44 The Lord gave them the land of other nations. They enjoyed the good things that other people had worked to get. 
Psalms105:45 Then God's people could obey his commands and his laws. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! 
Psalms106:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! Thank the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love will always be with us." 
Psalms106:2 The great things that the Lord has done are too many to tell! Nobody can praise him enough. 
Psalms106:3 The people who obey God's commands are truly happy. They always do what is right. 
Psalms106:4 Lord, when you help your people, please remember me! Do not forget to help me, when you come to rescue them." 
Psalms106:5 I want to enjoy the good things that you give to the people that you have chosen. I want to be happy together with the nation of your people. I want to join with the people who belong to you, and praise you as you deserve." 
Psalms106:6 We have done bad things, as our ancestors also did. We have done things that are wicked and evil." 
Psalms106:7 When our ancestors were in Egypt, they did not understand your miracles. They forgot the many ways that you showed them your faithful love. When they arrived at the Red Sea, they turned against you, Lord." 
Psalms106:8 But the Lord rescued them, to show that his name is great. He showed that he was very powerful." 
Psalms106:9 He shouted at the Red Sea, and it became dry. He led his people through the middle of the deep water, as if they walked in a desert!" 
Psalms106:10 He rescued them from the people who hated them. He saved them from their enemy's power. 
Psalms106:11 The water of the sea drowned their enemies, so that none of them remained alive." 
Psalms106:12 Then God's people believed his promises. They sang songs to praise him. 
Psalms106:13 But they soon forgot what the Lord had done to help them. They did not wait for him to tell them what to do. 
Psalms106:14 In the wilderness they wanted better food. They tested God to see what he would do. 
Psalms106:15 He gave them the food that they asked for, but he also sent a bad disease on them." 
Psalms106:16 The people became jealous of Moses, and Aaron, the Lord 's special priest." 
Psalms106:17 So God made the earth break open, so that Dathan fell into it. It also destroyed Abiram and his people." 
Psalms106:18 Fire burned all their group, and it killed those wicked people." 
Psalms106:19 At Horeb, the Israelites used gold to make a cow, and they worshipped it." 
Psalms106:20 They turned away from their great God. Instead, they worshipped the statue of a cow, an animal that eats grass!" 
Psalms106:21 They forgot the God who had saved them, when he did great miracles in Egypt." 
Psalms106:22 He had done powerful things in the land of Ham's descendants, and at the shore of the Red Sea. His people forgot about all that!" 
Psalms106:23 So God said that he would destroy them. But God's servant, Moses, spoke on their behalf. He asked God not to be angry with his people, and God agreed." 
Psalms106:24 Later, they did not believe God's promise to take them safely into the beautiful land of Canaan." 
Psalms106:25 They spoke against the Lord in their tents, and they did not obey him." 
Psalms106:26 So he made a strong promise that he would cause them to die in the desert. 
Psalms106:27 He promised that he would chase their descendants away, so that they died in foreign countries." 
Psalms106:28 After that, they started to worship the false god, Baal of Peor. They ate the food from sacrifices that people gave to dead idols." 
Psalms106:29 The Lord became angry because of what his people did. He sent a bad disease among them. 
Psalms106:30 Then Phinehas punished the guilty people, so that the disease stopped killing people." 
Psalms106:31 So we remember that Phinehas was a righteous man, and that will be true for ever." 
Psalms106:32 At Meribah springs, the Israelites made God angry. What they did there caused Moses to have trouble." 
Psalms106:33 Moses was so upset that he spoke in a careless way. 
Psalms106:34 The Lord commanded his people to destroy the nations of Canaan, But they did not obey the Lord 's command." 
Psalms106:35 Instead, they mixed with those nations and they learned their way of life." 
Psalms106:36 They worshipped their idols which caught them in a trap. 
Psalms106:37 They even killed their sons and their daughters as sacrifices for those idols of demons! 
Psalms106:38 Their sons and their daughters did not deserve to die, but they killed them as sacrifices for the idols of Canaan. Those murders made the land unclean." 
Psalms106:39 The things that the Lord 's people did made them unclean. They were not faithful to the Lord, like a wife who is not faithful to her husband." 
Psalms106:40 So the Lord became angry with his people. They belonged to him but he turned away from them. 
Psalms106:41 He let other nations have power over them. Their enemies ruled over them. 
Psalms106:42 Their enemies had power to hurt them, and they were cruel to them." 
Psalms106:43 Many times, the Lord rescued his people, but they had decided not to obey him. Their sins made them weaker and weaker." 
Psalms106:44 But the Lord still saw when they were in trouble. He answered them when they called to him for help. 
Psalms106:45 He remembered the covenant that he had made with them. Because of his faithful love for his people, he stopped punishing them." 
Psalms106:46 He caused all their enemies to be kind to them. 
Psalms106:47 Lord, our God, please save us! Bring us safely home from among the other nations. Then we will thank you! We will shout aloud to praise your holy name." 
Psalms106:48 Praise the Lord, Israel's God, as he deserves! Praise him now and for ever! Let everybody say, ‘ Amen! We agree!’ Hallelujah! Praise the Lord!" 
Psalms107:1 Thank the Lord because he is good. His faithful love for his people continues for ever. 
Psalms107:2 Everyone that the Lord has rescued should tell others. Tell them how he has rescued you from the enemy's power. 
Psalms107:3 He brought his people from foreign countries. He brought them together from the east and the west, from the north, and from the south." 
Psalms107:4 Some of them travelled through the wilderness on a road that went nowhere. They did not find any city to live in. 
Psalms107:5 They were hungry and thirsty. They were very weak and nearly dead. 
Psalms107:6 Because of their trouble, they called to the Lord for help. He rescued them from their troubles." 
Psalms107:7 He led them along a straight road, to arrive at a city where they could live." 
Psalms107:8 So God's people should thank the Lord because of his faithful love. They should thank him for the great things that he does for people. 
Psalms107:9 He gives drink to people who are thirsty. He gives plenty of good things to hungry people. 
Psalms107:10 Some people sat in a completely dark place. Iron chains held them as prisoners, and they were very sad." 
Psalms107:11 They had refused to obey God's commands. They did not accept the teaching of the Most High God. 
Psalms107:12 Because of that, God caused them to become weak from very hard work. When they fell down, nobody would help them to stand up." 
Psalms107:13 Because of their trouble, they called to the Lord for help. He rescued them from their troubles." 
Psalms107:14 He took them out of the completely dark place. He broke away the chains that held them. 
Psalms107:15 So they should thank the Lord because of his faithful love. They should thank him for the great things that he does for people. 
Psalms107:16 He broke bronze gates into pieces and he cut through iron bars. 
Psalms107:17 Some people became fools and they turned against God. They suffered because of their sins. 
Psalms107:18 They did not want to eat any food, so they nearly died." 
Psalms107:19 Because of their trouble, they called to the Lord for help. He rescued them from their troubles." 
Psalms107:20 He sent his word to them and he made them well again. He rescued them from the deep hole of death. 
Psalms107:21 So they should thank the Lord because of his faithful love. They should thank him for the great things that he does for people. 
Psalms107:22 They should offer sacrifices to thank God. They should sing aloud to tell about what he has done. 
Psalms107:23 Some people were traders who travelled far across the sea in ships. 
Psalms107:24 They saw the great things that the Lord did, even in the middle of the deep seas." 
Psalms107:25 He would command a storm to come, so that the wind caused big waves to rise up." 
Psalms107:26 The waves threw the ships up high in the air, then dropped them deep down. The danger made the sailors afraid, and they thought that they would die." 
Psalms107:27 Like drunk people, they could not stand or walk properly. They did not know what to do!" 
Psalms107:28 Because of their trouble, they called to the Lord for help. He rescued them from their troubles." 
Psalms107:29 He caused the storm to stop, so that the waves became quiet." 
Psalms107:30 The sailors were happy when it became quiet. God led them safely to the port, where they wanted to go." 
Psalms107:31 So they should thank the Lord because of his faithful love. They should thank him for the great things that he does for people. 
Psalms107:32 They should praise the Lord when they meet together. They should praise him at the meeting of their leaders. 
Psalms107:33 In places where people are wicked, God makes the streams and rivers become dry, so that the land becomes a desert. He makes good land become a salty wilderness." 
Psalms107:34  
Psalms107:35 But for his people, he changes deserts to become pools of water. He makes springs of water in dry land." 
Psalms107:36 He lets hungry people live there safely. They can build a city for themselves. 
Psalms107:37 They plant crops in their fields, and they plant vines to grow grapes. They have plenty of food to eat." 
Psalms107:38 He blesses them, so that they have many children. Their animals also grow in number." 
Psalms107:39 But they may become weak and few in number, because of cruel enemies who give them trouble." 
Psalms107:40 Then God causes the enemy's leaders to become ashamed. He makes them travel on roads that go nowhere. 
Psalms107:41 But for people who are poor and weak, he rescues them from their trouble. He gives them many children, so that they have big families." 
Psalms107:42 Good people see what God has done, and it makes them happy. Wicked people have nothing to say!" 
Psalms107:43 Wise people should think about these things. They should understand the Lord 's faithful love for his people. 
Psalms108:1 God, I have decided to trust you always. I will sing songs to praise you, with all that I am." 
Psalms108:2 I will pick up my harp and my lyre. I will make music as the sun rises! 
Psalms108:3 Lord, I will thank you in front of all the people. I will sing to praise you, so that all nations hear." 
Psalms108:4 Your faithful love is great. It is higher than the skies. Your truth reaches beyond the clouds. 
Psalms108:5 God, show how great you are, high above the sky! Let everybody on the earth see your glory." 
Psalms108:6 Use your power to rescue us! Answer our prayers! Then the people that you love will be safe. 
Psalms108:7 God has spoken from his holy place! He has promised: ‘I will show my power! I will make Shechem into separate pieces. I will measure Succoth Valley. 
Psalms108:8 Gilead belongs to me, and so does Manasseh. Ephraim is like my helmet for war. Judah has the authority of my royal sceptre." 
Psalms108:9 But Moab is the place where I wash my hands. Edom is my servant. I can throw my shoes at him! I will shout aloud, because I have won against the Philistines.’" 
Psalms108:10 Who will lead me into the strong city? Who will take me to fight and win against Edom? 
Psalms108:11 God, have you really turned against us? Will you not lead our armies into battle?" 
Psalms108:12 Help us to fight against our enemies, because help from men is useless!" 
Psalms108:13 With God's help, we will win! He will beat down our enemies for us." 
Psalms109:1 You are the God that I praise. Let me hear you speak! 
Psalms109:2 Wicked people are saying bad things against me. They are telling lies about me. 
Psalms109:3 They are all around me, and they say cruel things. I have done nothing against them, but they still attack me." 
Psalms109:4 I have loved them, but they still accuse me. I will continue to pray for them." 
Psalms109:5 I have been kind to them, but they do bad things to me in return. I have loved them, but they hate me in return." 
Psalms109:6 Find an evil man to judge my enemy! Put somebody at his right side to accuse him! 
Psalms109:7 When they judge him, show that he is guilty. Show that even his prayers are a sin." 
Psalms109:8 Make his life very short! Let somebody else do the job which he did. 
Psalms109:9 May he soon die, so that his children have no father, and his wife has no husband." 
Psalms109:10 Cause his children to have no home, so that they go from place to place, and ask people to give them food." 
Psalms109:11 May the people who lent money to my enemy, take away everything that belonged to him. Let strangers take everything that he worked hard to get for himself." 
Psalms109:12 Do not let anyone be kind to him. Do not let anyone help his children, even when they have no father." 
Psalms109:13 Remove all the descendants in his family. When his children die, may nobody remember his family any more!" 
Psalms109:14 Lord, please remember his ancestors' sins. Please do not forgive his mother's sins." 
Psalms109:15 Lord, never forget his family's sins. May nobody on earth remember his family's name." 
Psalms109:16 My enemy was never kind to anyone. He was cruel to poor, weak and helpless people. He even caused them to die," 
Psalms109:17 He loved to curse people. Now may those curses happen to him! He never asked God to bless other people, so nobody will ask God to bless him!" 
Psalms109:18 He always cursed others, as he always put on clothes. So those curses have become like his food and drink. May they go deep inside him, like olive oil that goes into his bones." 
Psalms109:19 Then curses will truly be his clothes. They will be like the belt that he wears every day. 
Psalms109:20 Yes, Lord, please punish all my enemies like that, because they say evil things to accuse me!" 
Psalms109:21 You, Almighty Lord, must help me! Show that your name is great. Rescue me, because your faithful love is good." 
Psalms109:22 I am weak and helpless. My heart beats fast inside me. 
Psalms109:23 I will soon be gone, like a shadow that disappears in the evening. I am like an insect that the wind blows away." 
Psalms109:24 I am so hungry that my knees shake. I am so thin that my bones show. 
Psalms109:25 My enemies laugh at me! When they see me, they shake their heads at me." 
Psalms109:26 Lord my God, please help me! Please rescue me, because of your faithful love." 
Psalms109:27 Lord, cause my enemies to know that you are the one who has rescued me." 
Psalms109:28 They may curse me, but you will bless me. When they attack me, they will become ashamed. But I will be very happy, as your servant." 
Psalms109:29 Shame will come on my enemies. It will cover them like a coat. 
Psalms109:30 I will thank the Lord with a loud voice! I will praise him, in front of a big crowd of people." 
Psalms109:31 He stands beside poor people, and he is ready to help them. When cruel people accuse a weak person, the Lord saves that person's life. So I will praise the Lord." 
Psalms110:1 The Lord said to my Lord, ‘Sit at my right side until I win against your enemies. Then you will be able to put your feet on them.’" 
Psalms110:2 The Lord will give you great authority, as you rule from Zion. You will rule over all your enemies that are around you." 
Psalms110:3 When you go to fight your enemies, your people will be happy to fight beside you. As the sun rises on the day of battle, your young men will be there, on the hills round Zion." 
Psalms110:4 The Lord has made a strong promise. He will not change it. He has promised, ‘You will be a priest for ever, in the same way that Melchizedek was my priest.’" 
Psalms110:5 The Lord is standing at your right side. When he becomes angry, he will knock down kings!" 
Psalms110:6 He will punish the nations, so that dead bodies cover the ground. He will destroy kings everywhere on the earth." 
Psalms110:7 He will drink from a stream at the side of the road. With new strength, he will lift up his head." 
Psalms111:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! I will thank the Lord with all that I am, when we, his people, meet together." 
Psalms111:2 The Lord does great things! People who enjoy them, think carefully about them." 
Psalms111:3 Everything that he does shows that he is a very great king! He will always do what is completely right. 
Psalms111:4 The Lord causes us to remember his miracles. He is kind and he forgives people. 
Psalms111:5 He gives food to the people who serve him. He always remembers the covenant that he made with his people. 
Psalms111:6 He said that he would use his great power to help his people. He has given to them the lands where other nations lived. 
Psalms111:7 He is always honest and fair in the things that he does. His rules help people to live well. 
Psalms111:8 They will continue to be right for all time. People should trust those rules and obey them. 
Psalms111:9 He rescued his people so that they became free. He made his covenant with them so that it would continue for ever. His name is holy, and people should respect him with fear." 
Psalms111:10 If you want to live in a wise way, respect and obey the Lord. Everyone who lives in the way that he teaches will understand what is right. People should praise the Lord for ever!" 
Psalms112:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! When someone respects and obeys the Lord, God has blessed that person! He is happy to obey the Lord 's commands." 
Psalms112:2 His children will become powerful in the land. God will bless their descendants who serve him. 
Psalms112:3 His family will have valuable things, and they will be rich. People will always remember the good things that they have done." 
Psalms112:4 God's light shines on those who serve him, even when they are in a dark place. God blesses those who are kind to others, and who do what is right and fair." 
Psalms112:5 People who are kind and lend money to others, and who work in an honest way, will enjoy a good life." 
Psalms112:6 Righteous people will never fail. People will always remember them. 
Psalms112:7 They are not afraid to hear bad news. They are brave, because they trust in the Lord." 
Psalms112:8 Their thoughts are strong and they will not be afraid. They know that they will win against their enemies. 
Psalms112:9 They give their things to help poor people. People will always remember the good things that they have done. They will be powerful and people will respect them. 
Psalms112:10 When wicked people see this, they will be angry. They will show their teeth in anger, but then they will disappear. Whatever wicked people want, they will never get it." 
Psalms113:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! Servants of the Lord, praise him! Praise the name of the Lord!" 
Psalms113:2 Everyone should praise the name of the Lord now and for ever! 
Psalms113:3 The Lord deserves that people praise him, from where the sun rises in the east, to where it goes down in the west." 
Psalms113:4 The Lord rules over all nations. His glory is great. It is higher than the heavens! 
Psalms113:5 There is nobody like the Lord our God. He sits on his throne high above us. 
Psalms113:6 He bends down to look below, at the sky and the earth." 
Psalms113:7 He lifts poor people out of the dirt. He lifts up weak people from the ashes. 
Psalms113:8 He gives them a seat with princes, the princes who rule his own people." 
Psalms113:9 He gives children to the woman who cannot give birth. She becomes a happy mother in her home. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! 
Psalms114:1 God led Israel's people out of Egypt. Jacob's descendants left that foreign land. 
Psalms114:2 Judah became God's special place for his people. There he ruled over Israel's people. 
Psalms114:3 The sea looked and ran away! The Jordan River also turned back! 
Psalms114:4 The mountains shook, like sheep that are jumping. The hills jumped like lambs." 
Psalms114:5 Tell me, sea, why did you run away? Tell me, Jordan River, why did you turn back?" 
Psalms114:6 And you mountains and hills, why did you jump like sheep?" 
Psalms114:7 Earth, shake with fear! The Lord, Jacob's God, has come to you, so be afraid!" 
Psalms114:8 He changed a rock into a pool of water! Water poured out of a hard rock! 
Psalms115:1 Lord, you are the one who deserves that people praise you. They should praise only you, not us! You love us with a faithful love, and you always do what you have promised." 
Psalms115:2 Why should other nations say about us, ‘Where is their God?’" 
Psalms115:3 We know that our God is in heaven. He does whatever he wants to do. 
Psalms115:4 The idols of those nations are made of silver and gold. Yes, human hands have made them!" 
Psalms115:5 Each idol has a mouth, but it cannot speak! It has eyes, but it cannot see!" 
Psalms115:6 It has ears, but it cannot hear! It has a nose, but it cannot smell!" 
Psalms115:7 It has hands, but it cannot feel anything! It has feet, but it cannot walk! It cannot make a sound!" 
Psalms115:8 The people that make those idols will become useless like them. The same is true for everyone who trusts their idols to help them. 
Psalms115:9 People of Israel, trust in the Lord. He is the one who helps you and keeps you safe." 
Psalms115:10 Aaron's family, trust in the Lord. He is the one who helps you and who keeps you safe." 
Psalms115:11 Everyone who gives honour to the Lord, trust in the Lord. He is the one who helps you and who keeps you safe." 
Psalms115:12 The Lord will remember us, and he will bless us. He will bless Israel's people. He will bless Aaron's family." 
Psalms115:13 He will bless everybody who serves him, whether they are important people or not." 
Psalms115:14 I pray that the Lord will give you many children, and your children too!" 
Psalms115:15 I pray that the Lord will bless you all. He is the one who made the whole universe. 
Psalms115:16 The heavens belong to the Lord, but he has given the earth to us people." 
Psalms115:17 Dead people cannot praise the Lord. In their graves, they are unable to speak." 
Psalms115:18 But we will praise the Lord, now and for ever. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord!" 
Psalms116:1 I love the Lord, because he heard me when I called to him." 
Psalms116:2 He listened carefully to me. I will always pray to him, for as long as I live." 
Psalms116:3 The danger of death was very near to me. I was afraid of the deep hole of death. I was very sad and upset. 
Psalms116:4 Then I called out to the Lord. I said, ‘ Lord, please save my life!’" 
Psalms116:5 The Lord is kind and fair. Yes, our God is very kind." 
Psalms116:6 The Lord takes care of helpless people. I was in danger of death, and he saved me!" 
Psalms116:7 So now I know that I am safe again. The Lord has been very good to me. 
Psalms116:8 Yes, Lord, you saved me from death! My eyes no longer weep, and I do not fall down to the ground." 
Psalms116:9 Now I will serve the Lord here in this world where people live. 
Psalms116:10 I trusted in the Lord even when I said, ‘I have much pain.’" 
Psalms116:11 I was upset and I said, ‘Everybody tells lies.’" 
Psalms116:12 The Lord has done many kind things to help me. What can I give back to him? 
Psalms116:13 I will offer a cup of wine to the Lord, to thank him because he saved me! I will worship him." 
Psalms116:14 I will give to the Lord everything that I have promised. I will do that when all his people meet together. 
Psalms116:15 The Lord is sad when one of his servants dies, because their lives are valuable to him." 
Psalms116:16 Lord, I am truly your servant. I am like a slave in your house. You have saved me from death." 
Psalms116:17 I will offer a sacrifice to you to say ‘thank you’. I will worship you as Lord. 
Psalms116:18 I will give to the Lord everything that I have promised. I will do that when all his people meet together," 
Psalms116:19 in the yard of the Lord 's temple. Yes, I will worship you in your temple in Jerusalem. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord!" 
Psalms117:1 You people of all nations, praise the Lord! People from every place, praise him!" 
Psalms117:2 The Lord 's faithful love for us is very strong. He will always do what he has promised. Praise the Lord! 
Psalms118:1 Thank the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love will always be with us." 
Psalms118:2 Israel's people must now say, ‘His faithful love will always be with us.’" 
Psalms118:3 Aaron's family, the priests, must now say, ‘His faithful love will always be with us.’" 
Psalms118:4 Everyone who serves the Lord must now say, ‘His faithful love will always be with us.’" 
Psalms118:5 I was very upset, so I called to the Lord to help me. The Lord answered me. He made me free from my trouble." 
Psalms118:6 The Lord is here to help me, so I will not be afraid. Nobody can do anything to hurt me!" 
Psalms118:7 The Lord is with me as my helper. As for those people who hate me, they will fall down as I watch them." 
Psalms118:8 It is better to go to the Lord to keep you safe, than to trust in people." 
Psalms118:9 It is better to trust the Lord to keep you safe, than to trust leaders to protect you." 
Psalms118:10 All the nations were ready to attack me. I used the Lord 's authority to send them away. 
Psalms118:11 Yes, they were all around me, ready to attack me. I used the Lord 's authority to send them away." 
Psalms118:12 They were all around me like a crowd of bees! But they soon disappeared, like a fire in a thorn bush. Yes, I used the Lord 's authority to send them away." 
Psalms118:13 My enemies attacked me and they tried to knock me down! But the Lord helped me. 
Psalms118:14 The Lord makes me strong and he takes care of me. He is the one who keeps me safe. 
Psalms118:15 Listen to the happy shouts of God's people in their tents! They have won against their enemies, because the Lord has power to do great things." 
Psalms118:16 Yes, the Lord has lifted up his strong right hand. He has the strength to win the battle!" 
Psalms118:17 I will not die. Instead, I will live. I will tell everyone what the Lord has done." 
Psalms118:18 The Lord has punished me very much, but he has not let me die." 
Psalms118:19 Open the gates of the temple! I will go in there, and I will thank the Lord." 
Psalms118:20 This is the Lord 's gate. Righteous people can go in through it. 
Psalms118:21 I will thank you, Lord, because you answered my prayer. You have rescued me." 
Psalms118:22 The builders refused to use a certain stone. But now that stone has become the most important stone at the corner of the building. 
Psalms118:23 The Lord has done this, and we can see that it is wonderful!" 
Psalms118:24 This is the day that the Lord has done a great thing. We will be very happy today! 
Psalms118:25 Lord, please save us now! Lord, please help us to have success!" 
Psalms118:26 May the Lord bless the man who comes with his authority! We praise you from here, in the house of the Lord." 
Psalms118:27 The Lord is truly God. He has caused his light to shine on us. Enjoy a happy festival! Take branches in your hands, and offer a sacrifice on the altar." 
Psalms118:28 You are my God, and I will thank you. You are my God, and I will say how great you are." 
Psalms118:29 Thank the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love will always be with us." 
Psalms119:1 People who always do what is right are truly happy. They obey the Law of the Lord. 
Psalms119:2 They agree to live by his rules. They love to pray to him. God has blessed people like that. 
Psalms119:3 They do nothing that is wrong. They live in a way that pleases the Lord. 
Psalms119:4 You, Lord, have told us to obey your teaching carefully." 
Psalms119:5 I want to be able to obey your laws all the time. 
Psalms119:6 When I remember all your commands, I will not be ashamed." 
Psalms119:7 When I learn your good rules, I will do what is right and I will thank you." 
Psalms119:8 Yes, I will obey your laws. Please do not turn away from me!" 
Psalms119:9 How can a young man live a pure life? He must be careful to obey your message. 
Psalms119:10 I bring all my thoughts to you. Do not let me turn away from your commands. 
Psalms119:11 I always keep your message in my mind, so that I do not do anything bad against you." 
Psalms119:12 Lord, everyone should praise you! Please teach me your laws." 
Psalms119:13 You have taught us your rules. I will speak them aloud for others to hear. 
Psalms119:14 Your rules give me a happy life. When I obey them, it is better than being rich!" 
Psalms119:15 I want to think carefully about your teaching. You have shown me the best way to live. 
Psalms119:16 Your laws make me very happy. I will not forget what you have taught me. 
Psalms119:17 Please be kind to me, your servant. Then I will live and I will obey your message." 
Psalms119:18 Open my eyes wide! Then I will see great things in your Law. 
Psalms119:19 I live like a stranger here on the earth. Please do not hide your commands from me. 
Psalms119:20 I really want to obey your rules all the time. I want that more than anything else. 
Psalms119:21 You warn people who are proud. If they turn away from your commands, you will surely punish them." 
Psalms119:22 I obey your rules. So do not let people insult me, so that I become ashamed." 
Psalms119:23 Rulers may think of ways to hurt me. But I will think carefully about your rules. 
Psalms119:24 Yes, your laws make me really happy. They show me the right way to live." 
Psalms119:25 I have fallen into the dust on the ground. I am almost dead. Give me life again, as you have promised to do." 
Psalms119:26 I told you what my life is like, and you answered me. Please teach me your laws." 
Psalms119:27 Help me to understand what your teaching means. Then I will think carefully about the great things that you do. 
Psalms119:28 I am so sad that I feel very weak. Use your word to make me strong again. 
Psalms119:29 Stop me from living in a wrong way. Please be kind to me, so that I know your Law." 
Psalms119:30 I have chosen to live in the right way. I will continue to obey your rules. 
Psalms119:31 Yes, Lord, I will always respect your teaching. Please do not let me become ashamed." 
Psalms119:32 I want to obey your commands all the time. Help me to understand them more and more. 
Psalms119:33 Lord, help me to understand your teaching, then I will always obey it." 
Psalms119:34 Explain your Law to me, so that I will obey it. I will always love to do what it says." 
Psalms119:35 Help me to live in a way that respects your commands. That is what makes me very happy. 
Psalms119:36 Help me to love your rules. That is better for me than riches. 
Psalms119:37 Turn my eyes away from useless things. Use your word to help me to live. 
Psalms119:38 I am your servant. Please do what you have promised to do. You have promised to bless anyone who respects you. 
Psalms119:39 I am afraid when people insult me. Your rules are good, so do not let me be ashamed." 
Psalms119:40 I really want to obey your rules. Because you are righteous, please let me continue to live." 
Psalms119:41 Lord, I want your faithful love to be with me. Please keep me safe, as you have promised." 
Psalms119:42 Then I will be able to answer the people who insult me. I will show them that I trust in your word. 
Psalms119:43 Do not stop me from speaking your true word! I know that you will do what is right. 
Psalms119:44 I will always obey your Law, now and for ever." 
Psalms119:45 I will not be in danger as I live, because I try to obey your teaching." 
Psalms119:46 I will speak to kings about your rules. I will not be ashamed to do that. 
Psalms119:47 I love your commands and they make me very happy. 
Psalms119:48 I respect your commands, and I love them. I am always thinking about your laws." 
Psalms119:49 Remember the word that you have spoken to me, your servant. You have helped me to hope in it." 
Psalms119:50 When I have trouble, your promise gives me peace in my mind. It makes my life strong again." 
Psalms119:51 Proud people laugh at me all the time. But I do not turn away from your Law. 
Psalms119:52 Lord, I think about the rules that you made long ago. When I do that, I feel happy." 
Psalms119:53 When wicked people turn against your Law, I become very angry." 
Psalms119:54 Wherever I live, I sing songs about your rules." 
Psalms119:55 In the night, Lord, I think about who you are. I will continue to obey your Law." 
Psalms119:56 This is what I do every day: I obey your teaching. 
Psalms119:57 Lord, you are everything that I need. I promise to obey your rules." 
Psalms119:58 I ask you, ‘Please, please take care of me. Be kind and forgive me, as you have promised to do.’" 
Psalms119:59 I have thought about the way that I live. I promise to obey your teaching. 
Psalms119:60 I will be careful to obey your commands. I will not be slow to do that. 
Psalms119:61 Wicked people try to catch me in their traps, but I will not forget your Law." 
Psalms119:62 I get up in the middle of the night to praise you. I thank you for your fair rules. 
Psalms119:63 I am a friend of everyone who respects you, and who obeys your teaching." 
Psalms119:64 Lord, your faithful love is everywhere! Please teach me your commands." 
Psalms119:65 Lord, you have blessed me, your servant, as you have promised to do." 
Psalms119:66 Teach me to understand what is right, because I trust your commands." 
Psalms119:67 Before you showed me what was right, I made mistakes. But now I obey your teaching." 
Psalms119:68 You are good and you do good things. So please teach me your laws. 
Psalms119:69 Proud people have told many lies against me, but I love to obey your rules." 
Psalms119:70 Those people do not understand anything, but your Law makes me very happy." 
Psalms119:71 When I suffered, it was good for me. It helped me to learn your commands." 
Psalms119:72 The rules that you have taught me are very valuable. They are more valuable to me than thousands of pieces of gold and silver. 
Psalms119:73 You made me with your hands. You made me what I am. Help me to understand things well, so that I learn your commands." 
Psalms119:74 People who respect you will be happy when they see me. That is because I trust your word. 
Psalms119:75 Lord, I know that your rules are good and fair. When you sent trouble to me, it was because you truly loved me." 
Psalms119:76 Now, please use your faithful love to comfort me. That is what you promised to do for me, your servant." 
Psalms119:77 Be kind to me so that I will live! Your Law makes me really happy. 
Psalms119:78 Proud men should be ashamed! They have spoken lies against me. 
Psalms119:79 Let the people who respect you join with me. They will learn to obey your rules. 
Psalms119:80 Let me obey your commands completely. Then I will not be ashamed. 
Psalms119:81 As I wait for you to save me, I feel tired and weak. I trust in your word." 
Psalms119:82 As I wait for you to do what you have promised, my eyes are too tired to stay open. I ask, ‘When will you come to help me?’" 
Psalms119:83 I am like an old wineskin that has become useless. But I have not forgotten your rules. 
Psalms119:84 As your servant, how much longer must I be patient? Please punish the people who want to hurt me. Please do it soon." 
Psalms119:85 Proud people want to catch me in their traps. That is against your Law! 
Psalms119:86 I know that I can trust all your commands, but people still give me trouble with their lies. Quickly, help me!" 
Psalms119:87 People here on earth have almost destroyed me, but I continue to obey your teaching." 
Psalms119:88 Please use your faithful love to keep me alive. Then I can continue to obey the rules that you have taught me. 
Psalms119:89 Lord, your teaching will always be there. You keep it safe in heaven." 
Psalms119:90 You always show that people can trust you, from one century to the next. You have fixed the earth in its place, and it will remain." 
Psalms119:91 It is by your command that all things continue. You have put everything there to serve you. 
Psalms119:92 If your Law had not made me truly happy, I would have been sad until I died." 
Psalms119:93 I will never forget your rules, because you have used them to give me life." 
Psalms119:94 I belong to you. Please save me! I have respected your rules. 
Psalms119:95 Wicked people are ready to kill me, but I think carefully about your laws." 
Psalms119:96 I have learned that all things will come to an end, but your commands have no end." 
Psalms119:97 I love your Law very much. I think about it all through each day. 
Psalms119:98 Your commands make me wiser than my enemies. They are always in my thoughts. 
Psalms119:99 I understand more than all my teachers, because I think carefully about your rules." 
Psalms119:100 I understand more than people who are old, because I obey your teaching." 
Psalms119:101 I do not follow evil ways, so that I can obey your word." 
Psalms119:102 I do not turn away from your rules, because you are my teacher." 
Psalms119:103 Your words are very good. They taste sweeter than honey in my mouth! 
Psalms119:104 Your teaching helps me to understand things, so I hate anything that is false." 
Psalms119:105 Your word is like a lamp that shines as my guide. It shows me the right way to live. 
Psalms119:106 I have made a strong promise that I will always obey your righteous rules. 
Psalms119:107 I am suffering very much. Lord, please keep me safe, as you have promised to do." 
Psalms119:108 Lord, please accept the praise that I choose to offer to you. Teach me your rules." 
Psalms119:109 My life is always in danger, but I never forget your Law." 
Psalms119:110 Wicked people try to catch me in a trap, but I do not turn away from your teaching." 
Psalms119:111 Your laws will always be with me. They make me happy deep inside. 
Psalms119:112 I have decided to obey your commands always, until the end of my life." 
Psalms119:113 I hate people who are not faithful to you. I love your Law. 
Psalms119:114 You are the safe place where I can hide. You keep me safe like a soldier's shield. I know that I can trust your word. 
Psalms119:115 Go away from me, you evil people! I will obey my God's commands." 
Psalms119:116 Help me to be strong, Lord, as your word promises. Do not let me be ashamed because of my hope." 
Psalms119:117 Please help me so that I will be safe. Then I will always obey your commands. 
Psalms119:118 You refuse people who turn away from your laws. You do not accept them, because they speak lies to deceive people." 
Psalms119:119 The wicked people in the world are like rubbish to you. So I choose to obey your rules. 
Psalms119:120 I respect your great strength, so that my body shakes with fear. The laws that you use to judge people make me afraid." 
Psalms119:121 I have done what is fair and right. Do not leave me alone so that my cruel enemies can hurt me. 
Psalms119:122 Promise to take care of me, your servant. Do not let proud people hurt me." 
Psalms119:123 I have been waiting a long time for you to save me. My eyes have become tired. I am waiting for you to save me, as you have promised to do." 
Psalms119:124 Please be kind to me, your servant, so that I see your faithful love. Continue to teach me your laws." 
Psalms119:125 I am your servant. Help me to be wise, so that I can understand your rules." 
Psalms119:126 It is time for you to do something, Lord, because people have turned against your Law." 
Psalms119:127 That is why I love your commands. They are more valuable to me than very pure gold. 
Psalms119:128 So I carefully obey your teaching. I hate everything that is false. 
Psalms119:129 Your laws are wonderful, Lord! So I obey them." 
Psalms119:130 Your message brings light to people, when they understand it. It helps ordinary people to become wise." 
Psalms119:131 I want to know your commands, like a thirsty dog needs water to drink." 
Psalms119:132 Turn towards me and be kind to me, as you always do for those who serve you." 
Psalms119:133 Use your word to lead me along the right way. Do not let sin rule over me. 
Psalms119:134 Keep me safe from cruel people, so that I can obey your teaching." 
Psalms119:135 Show a kind face to me, your servant. Teach me your laws." 
Psalms119:136 I weep with streams of tears, because people do not obey your Law." 
Psalms119:137 Lord, you are righteous and your laws are completely fair." 
Psalms119:138 The rules that you have given us are good and right. We can trust them completely. 
Psalms119:139 I am so angry that it makes me weak. My enemies do not accept your message. 
Psalms119:140 I know that your promises are completely true. I love them very much. 
Psalms119:141 I am not important enough for people to respect me, but I do not forget your teaching." 
Psalms119:142 You will always do what is right and your law is completely true. 
Psalms119:143 I am suffering because of great trouble, but your commands make me happy." 
Psalms119:144 Your rules are always fair. Help me to understand them, so that I may find true life." 
Psalms119:145 With all that I am, I call to you, ‘Answer me, Lord! I will obey your commands.’" 
Psalms119:146 I say to you, ‘Save me, so that I can obey your rules.’" 
Psalms119:147 I wake up before dawn and I cry to you for help. I trust what you have said. 
Psalms119:148 I am awake during each night, and I think carefully about your message." 
Psalms119:149 You love me with a faithful love, so please listen to me! Lord, do what is right, and keep my life safe." 
Psalms119:150 People who want to do evil things are ready to attack me. They have no interest in your Law. 
Psalms119:151 Lord, you are near to me, and I can trust all your commands." 
Psalms119:152 I have studied your teaching since long ago. I know that you have made it to remain for ever. 
Psalms119:153 Look at my pain and trouble! Please save me, because I do not forget your Law." 
Psalms119:154 Stand beside me and protect me. Keep me safe, as you have promised to do." 
Psalms119:155 Wicked people do not obey your rules, so their lives will never be safe." 
Psalms119:156 Lord, you are very kind. Please do what is right, and keep my life safe!" 
Psalms119:157 I have many enemies who are ready to hurt me. But I do not turn away from your rules. 
Psalms119:158 When I see people who have turned against you, they make me very upset. They do not obey your commands." 
Psalms119:159 See how I love your teaching, Lord! Please keep my life safe, because of your faithful love for your people." 
Psalms119:160 I can trust that your message is true. All your righteous rules will continue for ever. 
Psalms119:161 Rulers want to hurt me for no good reason. But it is your message that I respect with fear. 
Psalms119:162 Your teaching makes me very happy. I am like someone who has found great riches. 
Psalms119:163 I hate all kinds of lies, but I love your Law." 
Psalms119:164 I praise you seven times each day, because of your righteous rules." 
Psalms119:165 People who love your Law have peace in their minds. Nothing will cause them to fall down. 
Psalms119:166 Lord, I trust you to save me, as I obey your commands." 
Psalms119:167 I will continue to obey your rules, because I love them so much." 
Psalms119:168 I obey your commands and your teaching, because you know everything that I do." 
Psalms119:169 Listen to me, Lord, as I call to you for help! Help me to understand your word." 
Psalms119:170 I ask you to be kind to me, so please listen! Keep me safe, as you have promised to do." 
Psalms119:171 I will always speak aloud to praise you, because you teach me your rules." 
Psalms119:172 I will sing about your message, because all your commands are righteous." 
Psalms119:173 Please be ready to help me, because I choose to obey your teaching." 
Psalms119:174 Lord, I am waiting for you to save me. Please do it soon! Your Law makes me very happy." 
Psalms119:175 Keep my life safe, so that I can praise you. Use your laws to give me help." 
Psalms119:176 I have left the right way, like a sheep that has become lost. Come to make me safe again, as a shepherd looks for his lost sheep. Help me, your servant, because I have not forgotten your commands." 
Psalms120:1 I cried to the Lord to help me in my trouble. He answered me. 
Psalms120:2 I prayed, ‘ Lord, keep me safe from people who tell lies. Save me from people who want to deceive me.’" 
Psalms120:3 How will God punish you, you people who deceive others? He will punish you as you deserve!" 
Psalms120:4 Yes, the sharp arrows of a soldier will hurt you. They will give you pain, like wood that burns with fire." 
Psalms120:5 I am so sad! I live in Meshech as a stranger. I live among the people of Kedar. 
Psalms120:6 I have lived too long with people who hate peace. 
Psalms120:7 I want to live here in peace. But when I speak about peace, they only want war!" 
Psalms121:1 As I travel, I look up towards the hills. I will find no help there." 
Psalms121:2 My help comes from the Lord. He made heaven and the earth. 
Psalms121:3 He will take care of you, so that you do not fall. The one who protects you will not sleep." 
Psalms121:4 Yes! The Lord keeps Israel's people safe. He never gets tired or sleeps at all! 
Psalms121:5 The Lord is the one who keeps you safe. He is always with you, to give you shade from the hot sun." 
Psalms121:6 The hot sun will not hurt you in the daytime. At night, the moon cannot hurt you." 
Psalms121:7 The Lord is the one who takes care of you in all danger. He keeps your life safe. 
Psalms121:8 Whatever you do and wherever you go, the Lord will always keep you safe, now and for ever." 
Psalms122:1 It made me very happy when people said to me, ‘We will go to the house of the Lord.’" 
Psalms122:2 Now we have arrived! We are standing inside your gates, Jerusalem!" 
Psalms122:3 Jerusalem is a strong city where many people can meet together. 
Psalms122:4 Israel's tribes who belong to the Lord go up there. They go there to thank the Lord, as he has commanded them." 
Psalms122:5 Israel's rulers sit there to judge the people. They sit on the thrones of King David's descendants. 
Psalms122:6 Pray that there will be peace in Jerusalem. Pray that people who love Jerusalem will be safe. 
Psalms122:7 Yes, I pray that there will be peace inside the city's walls. I pray that people will be safe in their strong houses." 
Psalms122:8 Because of my family and my friends I will pray, ‘Please let there be peace in Jerusalem.’" 
Psalms122:9 Because of the house of the Lord our God, I will pray for good things to happen in Jerusalem." 
Psalms123:1 I look up to you, God, as you rule from your throne in heaven." 
Psalms123:2 Yes, our eyes look up to the Lord our God. We want him to be kind to us, so we wait for his help. We wait like servants who want help from their master." 
Psalms123:3 Please be kind to us, Lord. Please forgive us. People have insulted us more and more!" 
Psalms123:4 We have had too much! Proud people laugh at us, and they do not respect us. Please stop them!" 
Psalms124:1 If the Lord was not fighting for us, what would have happened? Israel's people, now answer:" 
Psalms124:2 ‘If the Lord was not fighting for us when men attacked us," 
Psalms124:3 our enemies would have eaten us alive! They would have destroyed us, because they were so angry against us." 
Psalms124:4 They would have been too strong for us, like rivers of waters that covered us." 
Psalms124:5 They would have been like deep water over our heads that drowned us. 
Psalms124:6 We should praise the Lord! He did not let our enemies destroy us, like wild animals that kill their food and eat it." 
Psalms124:7 Now we have become free, like a bird that escaped from a trap. Our enemies lost their power, and we are free!" 
Psalms124:8 The one who helped us is the Lord. He is the one who made the whole universe.’ 
Psalms125:1 People who trust in the Lord are strong, like Mount Zion. Nothing can shake it. It will always be there." 
Psalms125:2 The Lord is always near to his people, like the mountains around Jerusalem. He keeps his people safe, now and for ever." 
Psalms125:3 Wicked people will not rule over God's own people. They will not rule the land where righteous people live. If they did, the righteous people might also do bad things." 
Psalms125:4 Lord, please do good things to good, honest people. Be kind to those who follow your good ways." 
Psalms125:5 But as for people who follow their own bad ways, Lord, remove them! Take them away, together with people who do evil things. May Israel have peace!" 
Psalms126:1 When the Lord turned us around, so that we enjoyed a good life in Zion again, we thought that we were dreaming!" 
Psalms126:2 At that time, we laughed a lot. We sang with joy because we were so happy! People in other countries said to each other, ‘The Lord has done great things for them!’" 
Psalms126:3 Yes, the Lord has done great things for us. So we are very happy." 
Psalms126:4 Lord, please bless us as you did before. It will be like streams of water that return to the desert." 
Psalms126:5 When people went to plant seeds in their fields, they were crying. But they will be happy when they bring in the harvest!" 
Psalms126:6 People were weeping when they took their bags of seeds to plant. But when they carry their crops back home, they will shout because they are so happy!" 
Psalms127:1 The Lord must build your house. If not, the work of the builders is useless. The Lord must keep the city safe. If not, the city guards are useless." 
Psalms127:2 If you work all day for food, and never stop, it is also useless. God gives food to the people that he loves. Even while they sleep, God takes care of them." 
Psalms127:3 Children are a gift from the Lord. He blesses us with descendants. 
Psalms127:4 If you have sons while you are a young man, they are like a soldier's arrows that he can use." 
Psalms127:5 If a man has many sons, he is truly happy. When his enemies speak against him at the city gate, they will not win." 
Psalms128:1 If people respect the Lord and they obey his commands, they are truly happy!" 
Psalms128:2 You will eat the food that you have worked hard to grow. You will have everything that you need. You will be happy! 
Psalms128:3 Your wife will be like a vine that grows in your home, and it gives many grapes. Your children will sit around your table, like the branches of an olive tree that are around you." 
Psalms128:4 Yes, if a man respects the Lord, that is how God blesses him." 
Psalms128:5 The Lord rules from Zion, and I pray that he will bless you. Then you will see that Jerusalem is a good place to live in for as long as you live." 
Psalms128:6 I pray that you will live to see your grandchildren. May Israel have peace! 
Psalms129:1 Since I was young, my enemies have often attacked me. Israel's people now answer:" 
Psalms129:2 ‘They have often attacked me since I was young, but they have not won against me." 
Psalms129:3 They hit my back with whips. They made long marks on it, like farmers who are ploughing their fields." 
Psalms129:4 But the Lord is righteous. He has made me free from those cruel people.’ 
Psalms129:5 I pray that everyone who hates Zion's people will be ashamed. Then they will have to turn around and go back. 
Psalms129:6 May they be useless, like grass that grows on a roof. It dies before it can grow tall!" 
Psalms129:7 A gardener cannot use it. A farmer will not keep it. 
Psalms129:8 People who go past will not say to them, ‘We will ask the Lord to bless you!’ Nobody will say to those who hate Zion's people, ‘Receive our blessing in the name of the Lord!’" 
Psalms130:1 Lord, I am crying aloud to you because I have great trouble." 
Psalms130:2 My Lord God, please listen to me! I am asking you to be kind and help me." 
Psalms130:3 Lord, if you should write down all our sins, nobody could stand as a righteous person." 
Psalms130:4 But you forgive people for their sins, and so we give you honour." 
Psalms130:5 I will wait for the Lord to help me. I trust him completely. So I wait for him to do what he has promised. 
Psalms130:6 I want my Lord God to come and help me, more than a guard at night wants the morning to come. Yes, I want my Lord to come quickly, even more than that." 
Psalms130:7 Israel's people, trust the Lord to help you. The Lord has faithful love for his people. He is always ready to save them." 
Psalms130:8 He will save Israel's people from all their sins. 
Psalms131:1 Lord, I am not proud. I do not think that I am a great person. I do not try to do great things. I do not worry about things that are too hard for me to understand." 
Psalms131:2 Instead, I am quiet and there is peace in my mind. I am like a young child who sits on his mother's knee. Yes, I have peace in my mind." 
Psalms131:3 Israel's people, trust the Lord to help you, now and for ever." 
Psalms132:1 Lord, remember King David and all the troubles that he had." 
Psalms132:2 He made a special promise to the Lord. He promised you, the Mighty One of Jacob." 
Psalms132:3 He said, ‘I will not go into my house or get into my bed;" 
Psalms132:4 I will not sleep even for a moment," 
Psalms132:5 until I find a house for the Lord. Yes, the Mighty One of Jacob needs a proper home.’" 
Psalms132:6 Listen! We heard the news at Ephrathah. We found God's Covenant Box in the fields of Jaar. 
Psalms132:7 We will go to the Lord 's home! We will worship him on his throne! 
Psalms132:8 Lord, come now and stay here, in your home! Come with the Covenant Box that shows your great power." 
Psalms132:9 May your priests serve you in a good way. Cause your faithful people to shout with joy! 
Psalms132:10 Remember your servant, King David. Do not turn away from your chosen king." 
Psalms132:11 The Lord made a strong promise to David. He will not change what he has promised to do. The Lord said, ‘I will put one of your sons on your throne to rule as king." 
Psalms132:12 If your sons obey my covenant and my rules, their descendants will rule for ever.’" 
Psalms132:13 The Lord has chosen Zion to be his home. 
Psalms132:14 He said, ‘This is where I will live for ever. This is where I want my home to be." 
Psalms132:15 I will give Zion's people everything that they need. Zion's poor people will have plenty of food to eat. 
Psalms132:16 I will keep Zion's priests safe. The people who serve God faithfully will shout loudly, because they are so happy." 
Psalms132:17 In Zion I will give strength to King David's family. My chosen king will continue to rule well, like a light that shines brightly." 
Psalms132:18 I will cause his enemies to be ashamed. But his own kingdom will be great!’ 
Psalms133:1 It is good for a family of God's people to live together in peace. Yes! It brings great pleasure! 
Psalms133:2 It brings pleasure like valuable olive oil that is poured on your head, and it goes down onto your beard. They poured it onto Aaron's head and his beard, and it went down onto his clothes." 
Psalms133:3 It brings pleasure like the dew on Mount Hermon. It makes the hills of Zion become wet. That is the place where the Lord has promised to bless his people. He blesses them with life for ever. 
Psalms134:1 Listen, all you servants of the Lord, come and praise the Lord! Praise the Lord, all you who serve him in his temple during the night." 
Psalms134:2 Lift up your hands towards his Holy Place, and praise him." 
Psalms134:3 The Lord made heaven and the earth. From his home in Zion, may he bless you!" 
Psalms135:1 Hallelujah! Praise the name of the Lord! Praise him, you servants of the Lord!" 
Psalms135:2 You serve the Lord in his temple. You serve him in the temple yards. 
Psalms135:3 The Lord is good, so praise him! His name is good and great, so praise him with songs!" 
Psalms135:4 The Lord has chosen Jacob's family for himself. Yes, he has chosen Israel's people to belong to him." 
Psalms135:5 I know that the Lord is great. Our Lord is greater than any other god. 
Psalms135:6 He does whatever he decides to do. He rules the sky and the earth, and the deepest parts of the sea." 
Psalms135:7 The Lord causes clouds to rise up all over the earth. He sends lightning with the storms of rain. He sends out the wind from its place, so that it blows where he chooses." 
Psalms135:8 God destroyed the firstborn sons in Egypt, both men and animals." 
Psalms135:9 He did great miracles in Egypt. He warned Pharaoh and his officers that he would punish them. 
Psalms135:10 He destroyed many nations and he killed powerful kings. 
Psalms135:11 He killed Sihon, the king of the Amorites. He killed Og, the king of Bashan, and all the other kings of Canaan." 
Psalms135:12 He gave their land to his people, the Israelites. The land would belong to them and to their descendants." 
Psalms135:13 Lord, people will always remember your name. You will always be famous." 
Psalms135:14 The Lord shows that his people are right. He is kind to those who serve him. 
Psalms135:15 Other nations make idols with silver and gold. People worship things that they have made with their hands! 
Psalms135:16 Their idols have mouths, but they cannot speak! They have eyes, but they cannot see!" 
Psalms135:17 They have ears, but they cannot hear! They cannot even breathe!" 
Psalms135:18 The people who made them will become like them. Everyone who trusts in idols will become as useless as their idols. 
Psalms135:19 Israel's family, praise the Lord! Descendants of Aaron, praise the Lord!" 
Psalms135:20 Descendants of Levi, praise the Lord! Everyone who serves the Lord, praise him!" 
Psalms135:21 Everyone in Zion should praise the Lord. He is the one who has his home in Jerusalem. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! 
Psalms136:1 Thank the Lord, because he is good! His faithful love will always continue." 
Psalms136:2 Thank God, who rules all gods. His faithful love will always continue." 
Psalms136:3 Thank the Lord God who rules all lords. His faithful love will always continue. 
Psalms136:4 The Lord alone does great miracles. He was wise when he made the skies. He put the earth across the water of the seas. He made the great lights to shine in the sky. He made the sun to rule over the day. He made the moon and the stars to rule the night. So thank the Lord! His faithful love will always continue. 
Psalms136:5  
Psalms136:6  
Psalms136:7  
Psalms136:8  
Psalms136:9  
Psalms136:10 The Lord destroyed the firstborn sons in Egypt. He brought the Israelites out from among the Egyptians. He did this with his great power and strength. He cut the Red Sea into two separate parts. He led the Israelites through the middle of the sea. He threw Pharaoh and his army into the Red Sea to drown. The Lord led his people through the wilderness. So thank the Lord! His faithful love will always continue. 
Psalms136:11  
Psalms136:12  
Psalms136:13  
Psalms136:14  
Psalms136:15  
Psalms136:16  
Psalms136:17 The Lord destroyed great kings. Yes, he killed powerful kings. He killed Sihon, the king of the Amorites. He killed Og, the king of Bashan. He gave their land to his people, the Israelites. He gave it to them as their own land. So thank the Lord! His faithful love will always continue." 
Psalms136:18  
Psalms136:19  
Psalms136:20  
Psalms136:21  
Psalms136:22  
Psalms136:23 The Lord thought about us when we were upset. He saved us from the power of our enemies. He gives food to everything that lives. So thank the Lord! His faithful love will always continue. 
Psalms136:24  
Psalms136:25  
Psalms136:26 Yes, thank the God of heaven! His faithful love will always continue." 
Psalms137:1 When we sat down beside the rivers in Babylon, we were very upset. We thought about Zion that we had left behind, and we wept." 
Psalms137:2 We hung up our harps there, on the branches of the willow trees." 
Psalms137:3 Our enemies asked us to sing songs for them there. They laughed at us as their prisoners. They asked for a song to make them happy. They shouted, ‘Sing us a song about Zion!’" 
Psalms137:4 But we are in a foreign land, so we cannot sing a song to the Lord." 
Psalms137:5 Jerusalem, I never want to forget you. I would rather lose my right hand!" 
Psalms137:6 I would rather my tongue could no longer move! Yes, I will always remember you, Jerusalem. You are the most important thing that I think about, more than anything else that makes me happy." 
Psalms137:7 Lord, remember to punish the people of Edom. They were happy when Babylon's army won against Jerusalem. On that day, the Edomites said, ‘Knock down the city so that nothing still stands!’" 
Psalms137:8 People of Babylon, an army will soon destroy you! They will punish you in the same way that you punished us. May God bless whoever does that to you!" 
Psalms137:9 They will hit your babies against a rock. May God bless whoever does that to you! 
Psalms138:1 I will thank you, Lord with all that I am. I will sing and praise you in front of the gods." 
Psalms138:2 I look towards your holy temple, and I bend down to worship you. I thank you for who you are. You love your people with a faithful love and they can always trust you. You are more famous than anyone, because you always do what you promise." 
Psalms138:3 When I prayed to you, you answered me. You made me brave and strong." 
Psalms138:4 All the kings in the world will thank you, Lord, when they hear the promises that you have made." 
Psalms138:5 They will sing about the things that you have done, because they see that you are great, Lord." 
Psalms138:6 Yes, the Lord is high above the earth, but he takes care of humble people. He also knows what proud people are doing, even if they are far away." 
Psalms138:7 When there is danger all around me, you help me to be strong. When my enemy is angry, you fight against him. You save me with your strong right hand." 
Psalms138:8 The Lord will do what he has promised for me. Yes, Lord, your faithful love will always continue. You have made us who we are, so do not leave us now!" 
Psalms139:1 Lord, you look deep inside me, and you know all about me." 
Psalms139:2 You know when I sit down, and you know when I get up. Even when you are far away, you understand what I am thinking about." 
Psalms139:3 You see me when I go out, and you see me when I stay at home. You know everything that I do!" 
Psalms139:4 Yes Lord, before I open my mouth to speak, you know what I will say." 
Psalms139:5 You are all around me, in front of me and behind me. You put your hand on me to help me." 
Psalms139:6 You know so much about me, it is wonderful. I cannot understand it. My thoughts cannot reach as high as that!" 
Psalms139:7 Is there anywhere that I can go to run away from your Spirit? Anywhere that I go, you are already there!" 
Psalms139:8 If I go up to heaven, you would be there. If I dig deep down into the ground to reach Sheol, you would be there too." 
Psalms139:9 If I fly away to where the sun rises in the east, or to the other side of the sea in the west, you would be there." 
Psalms139:10 You would use your hand to lead me, even there. Your strong right hand would keep me safe." 
Psalms139:11 I might say, ‘I will hide myself in the dark, and the light around me will change into night.’" 
Psalms139:12 But it is never too dark for you to see. For you, the night has as much light as the day. Darkness and light are the same to you!" 
Psalms139:13 You made every part of me. You made me grow inside my mother before I was born. 
Psalms139:14 I thank you for the wonderful way that you have made me. Everything that you do is wonderful! I know all this is true. 
Psalms139:15 While you caused me to grow in a secret place, none of my body was hidden from you. You made me deep in the earth." 
Psalms139:16 Your eyes watched me before I was born. Before I had seen the light of day, you decided how many days I would live! You wrote it down in your book." 
Psalms139:17 You have so many thoughts about me, God, that I cannot understand them all." 
Psalms139:18 They are too many for me to count, more than the sand on the shore of the sea. Even if I finished counting them, you would still be there!" 
Psalms139:19 God, you should surely destroy the wicked people! Yes, you murderers, go away from me!" 
Psalms139:20 Those people say bad things against you, God. Your enemies always tell lies." 
Psalms139:21 Lord, I hate those people who hate you. I do not respect those who turn against you." 
Psalms139:22 Yes, I really hate them. Your enemies are my enemies too." 
Psalms139:23 God, please look deep inside me. See what is there in my thoughts." 
Psalms139:24 Show me if I am following any evil way. Lead me in the right way that has always been true. 
Psalms140:1 Lord, please save me from evil people. Rescue me from people who are violent." 
Psalms140:2 They think of evil ideas to hurt people. They only want to cause trouble! 
Psalms140:3 Their words hurt people, like the tongue of a snake. They bite with poison, like a dangerous snake." 
Psalms140:4 Lord, keep me safe from the power of wicked people. Protect me from violent people who want to attack me." 
Psalms140:5 Proud people have prepared a trap to catch me. They have put their nets across my path. 
Psalms140:6 Lord, I say to you, ‘You are my God.’ Lord, please hear my prayer for help!" 
Psalms140:7 Lord, my Lord, you are my strong helper. You protect my head when I fight in a battle." 
Psalms140:8 Lord, do not let wicked people do what they want to do. Stop them when they prepare to attack." 
Psalms140:9 Stop the people who are ready to attack me! Let the bad things that they say against me happen to them instead! 
Psalms140:10 Drop burning coals on them like rain! Throw those people into the fire! Let them fall into deep holes that they cannot get out of! 
Psalms140:11 People who tell cruel lies should not live in our land. Trouble will happen to violent people. Terrible trouble will knock them down! 
Psalms140:12 I know that the Lord helps poor people. He makes sure that they receive justice. 
Psalms140:13 Your righteous people will always praise you. Good, honest people will live with you." 
Psalms141:1 Lord, I am calling to you for help. Come to me quickly! Please listen to what I am saying." 
Psalms141:2 I offer my prayer to you like incense. Please accept it when I raise my hands to you. Accept it like a gift that I offer to you in the evening. 
Psalms141:3 Lord, keep my mouth safe, so that I do not speak bad things." 
Psalms141:4 Do not let my mind want evil things. Do not let me join with wicked people, to do the same bad things that they do. I do not even want to eat their good food." 
Psalms141:5 If a good man hits me because he loves me, he is being kind to me. If he shows me that I have done a wrong thing, that it is like olive oil on my head. I would not refuse it. I continue to pray against what wicked people do." 
Psalms141:6 Wicked people will throw their rulers down from high rocks. Then people will agree that my words were true. 
Psalms141:7 It will be like a farmer who ploughs his field, and breaks the earth into pieces. Just like that, they will break the bones of wicked people. They will throw their bones on the ground at the entrance to Sheol." 
Psalms141:8 But I look to you for help, Almighty Lord. I need you to keep me safe. Do not let wicked people kill me." 
Psalms141:9 They have prepared traps to catch me. Do not let me fall into the traps of those evil people. 
Psalms141:10 May those bad people fall into their own traps! Then I will be free from their power. 
Psalms142:1 I am calling to the Lord to help me. I ask him to be kind to me. 
Psalms142:2 I tell him about all my problems. I tell him about all my trouble. 
Psalms142:3 Even when I do not feel brave, you are still my guide, Lord. In the path where I walk, my enemies have prepared a trap to catch me." 
Psalms142:4 Look at me! I have no friend here to help me. There is no safe place where I can go. Nobody thinks about what is happening to me. 
Psalms142:5 Yes, Lord, I am calling to you to help me. You are my safe place where I can hide. You are all that I need in this world where I live." 
Psalms142:6 Please listen to me as I cry to you. I am very upset! My enemies are trying to catch me. Save me from their power! They are stronger than I am. 
Psalms142:7 Please take me out of this prison. Then I will praise your name. Your own good people will see how you have helped me. They will meet around me to praise you. 
Psalms143:1 Lord, I pray to you for help. Please listen to me. Answer me, because you do what is right. I know that I can trust you." 
Psalms143:2 Do not judge me, your servant. Nobody is righteous when they stand in front of you." 
Psalms143:3 My enemies are chasing me. They knock me down to the ground. They make me live in dark places, like people who have been dead for a long time." 
Psalms143:4 My strength is leaving me and I feel very upset. 
Psalms143:5 I remember what happened many years ago. I think carefully about all the good things that you have done. 
Psalms143:6 I raise my hands to pray to you. I need you to help me, like dry ground that needs rain." 
Psalms143:7 Please answer me soon, Lord. I am losing my strength. Do not turn away from me. If you leave me, I will join those people who are going down into the deep hole of death." 
Psalms143:8 Every morning, help me to remember your faithful love, because I am trusting in you. Show me how I should live to please you. I know that I belong to you." 
Psalms143:9 Lord, save me from my enemies. I run to you to keep me safe." 
Psalms143:10 Teach me to do what pleases you, because you are my God. Let your kind Spirit lead me, so that I can walk in a safe place." 
Psalms143:11 Your name is great, Lord, so please keep my life safe. You do what is right, so bring me out of all my trouble." 
Psalms143:12 I am your servant and you love me. Please show your faithful love to me and destroy my enemies. Yes, kill all those people who want to kill me!" 
Psalms144:1 Lord, I praise you! You are my great Rock! You teach me how to fight well. You show me how to use my weapons." 
Psalms144:2 You always love me. You are the strong place where I am safe. You rescue me from the power of my enemies. You are like a shield for me. I know that I am safe with you. You give me power over nations. 
Psalms144:3 Lord, why do you even think about men and women? Why do you take care of humans?" 
Psalms144:4 People soon pass away, just like a breath. Their life is like a shadow that soon disappears." 
Psalms144:5 Lord, open up the heavens! Leave your home and come down to earth! Touch the mountains so that they burn with smoke." 
Psalms144:6 Send bright lightning to frighten your enemies. Shoot your arrows at them so that they run away. 
Psalms144:7 Put your hand down from heaven, and lift me up from the deep water. Save me from the power of foreign people." 
Psalms144:8 Their mouths speak lies. Even when they make a promise, they are deceiving people." 
Psalms144:9 I will sing to you a new song, God. I will make music to you on my harp." 
Psalms144:10 You help kings to win against their enemies. You also save me, your servant David, from my enemies, when they try to kill me with their dangerous swords." 
Psalms144:11 Keep me safe from the power of foreign people. They speak lies. Even when they make a promise, it is false." 
Psalms144:12 When our sons are young, may they grow quickly, like strong plants. May our daughters become tall and beautiful, like the beautiful pillars in a king's house." 
Psalms144:13 May our homes have plenty of different kinds of food. May our sheep have thousands of lambs, so that there is no space in our fields." 
Psalms144:14 May our cows give birth to many babies. May our enemies never knock down our city's walls. May none of us become their prisoners. May nobody cry in our city's streets because they are afraid. 
Psalms144:15 When God does that for a nation, the people are truly happy! If people know that the Lord is their God, they are truly happy!" 
Psalms145:1 I will praise you, my God and my King. I will always say how great you are!" 
Psalms145:2 I will praise you every day! Yes, I will always say how great you are!" 
Psalms145:3 The Lord is great and we should always praise him! He is greater than anyone can understand! 
Psalms145:4 Parents will tell their children about you. They will all praise your powerful acts. 
Psalms145:5 They will speak about your great glory. I too will think carefully about your wonderful acts. 
Psalms145:6 People will talk about the powerful things that you have done. I too will say how great you are! 
Psalms145:7 Everyone will say how good and kind you are. They will sing with joy about your justice. 
Psalms145:8 Yes, the Lord is very kind and patient! He shows how great his faithful love is." 
Psalms145:9 The Lord is good to everyone. He takes care of everything that he has made. 
Psalms145:10 Everything that the Lord has made will thank him. Your own people will praise you, Lord!" 
Psalms145:11 They will say that your kingdom has great glory! They will speak about your royal power. 
Psalms145:12 Then everyone will agree that you do great things. They will know about the glory of your kingdom. 
Psalms145:13 Your kingdom will remain for ever. You will rule as king through every generation. The Lord always does what he promises to do. He is faithful in everything that he does. 
Psalms145:14 The Lord lifts up everyone who falls. He helps everyone who feels weak. 
Psalms145:15 Everyone looks to you for help. You provide food for everything at the right time. 
Psalms145:16 You are ready to give with an open hand. You give food to every living thing, as much as they need." 
Psalms145:17 The Lord is fair in everything that he does. He always shows his faithful love. 
Psalms145:18 The Lord is ready to help everyone, if they pray to him in an honest way." 
Psalms145:19 He helps those who respect and obey him. He saves them when they call to him for help. 
Psalms145:20 The Lord protects everyone who loves him, but he destroys all wicked people." 
Psalms145:21 I will speak aloud to praise the Lord! Everyone who lives should praise his holy name for ever! 
Psalms146:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! I say to myself, ‘Praise the Lord!’" 
Psalms146:2 I will praise the Lord through all my life. While I am alive, I will always sing to praise my God." 
Psalms146:3 Do not trust in human leaders. No human can save you. 
Psalms146:4 When they die, they return to the ground. On that day, their plans come to an end." 
Psalms146:5 The person who knows that the God of Jacob will help him is a happy person! If he trusts in the Lord as his God, he is happy." 
Psalms146:6 The Lord made the skies, the earth and the sea. He also made everything that is in them. He always does what he has promised to do." 
Psalms146:7 He helps poor people to receive justice. He gives food to the hungry. He makes people that are in prison go free. 
Psalms146:8 The Lord makes blind people see again. The Lord lifts up people who have fallen down. The Lord loves people who are righteous. 
Psalms146:9 The Lord takes care of strangers who live among us. He helps widows and children who have no family, but he stops wicked people doing what they want." 
Psalms146:10 The Lord will rule as king for ever! Zion's people, he will always be your God and your descendants' God. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord!" 
Psalms147:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! It is good to sing to praise our God! Yes, it is right to praise him and it makes us happy." 
Psalms147:2 The Lord is building Jerusalem again. He is bringing home the Israelite exiles. 
Psalms147:3 He makes people who are very sad well again. He helps their wounds to get better. 
Psalms147:4 He decided how many stars there should be in the sky. He has given a name to each of them. 
Psalms147:5 Our Lord God is great and very powerful. He understands everything! 
Psalms147:6 The Lord gives help to poor people, but he knocks down wicked people to the ground." 
Psalms147:7 Offer a song to the Lord, to thank him for what he has done. Make music with a harp to praise our God." 
Psalms147:8 He fills the sky with clouds. He sends rain to make the earth wet. He causes grass to grow on the hills. 
Psalms147:9 He gives food for the animals to eat. He feeds the young ravens when they cry. 
Psalms147:10 If a horse is very strong, that does not please him. If a soldier is brave, that does not make him happy." 
Psalms147:11 Who does make the Lord happy? People who respect him and obey him. People who trust him because they know he loves them. 
Psalms147:12 Jerusalem's people, praise the Lord! Yes, Zion's people, praise your God!" 
Psalms147:13 Praise him because he makes your city's gates strong. He blesses the people who live there. 
Psalms147:14 He causes your borders to be safe from your enemies. He gives you lots of the best wheat to eat. 
Psalms147:15 He sends his commands to reach all the earth. Very soon the whole world knows what he wants. 
Psalms147:16 He covers the earth with snow, like a white blanket. He puts white frost everywhere, like ashes that the wind blows." 
Psalms147:17 He throws hail from the sky, like small stones. When he sends a cold wind, nobody can continue to stand." 
Psalms147:18 Then he commands it all to melt. He makes the warm wind blow, and the ice becomes streams of water." 
Psalms147:19 He sends his message to Jacob's descendants. He gives his rules and laws to Israel's people. 
Psalms147:20 He has not done that for any other nation. They do not know his laws. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! 
Psalms148:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord from the sky above! Praise him high in the heavens. 
Psalms148:2 Praise him, all his angels. Praise him, all his armies in heaven." 
Psalms148:3 Praise him, sun and moon. Praise him, all bright stars." 
Psalms148:4 Praise him, skies above, and the water above the sky." 
Psalms148:5 They should all praise the name of the Lord. It was his command that created them. 
Psalms148:6 He has fixed them in their places for all time. Nothing can change the command that he has given. 
Psalms148:7 Praise the Lord from the earth! Praise him, sea monsters and all the deep seas." 
Psalms148:8 Praise him, fire and hail, snow and clouds. Praise him, wind and storm, as you obey his commands." 
Psalms148:9 Praise him, mountains and all hills. Praise him fruit trees and all trees in the forests." 
Psalms148:10 Praise him, wild animals and farm animals. Praise him, snakes and birds." 
Psalms148:11 Praise him, kings all over the world, and people of every nation. Praise him, princes and all rulers on earth." 
Psalms148:12 Praise him, young men and young women. Praise him, old men, as well as children." 
Psalms148:13 They should all praise the name of the Lord. Only the Lord 's name is great above all other names. He is the king who rules over heaven and earth. 
Psalms148:14 He has made his own people strong, so that other nations respect them. All the people who serve him should praise him. They are the people of Israel, who belong to him. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord!" 
Psalms149:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! Sing a new song to worship the Lord. When his own people meet together, they should praise him." 
Psalms149:2 People of Israel, be very happy, because God made you. People of Zion, be very happy, because God is your king." 
Psalms149:3 Yes, dance to praise the name of the Lord. Take your harps and tambourines and make music to praise him with your songs." 
Psalms149:4 When the Lord 's people serve him, it makes him happy. He is happy to help humble people, so that people respect them." 
Psalms149:5 The people who belong to God should be very happy, because he has made them great. They should always sing with joy, even when they lie on their beds at night." 
Psalms149:6 They should shout aloud to praise God, while they hold sharp swords in their hands." 
Psalms149:7 That is how they must fight against other nations, to punish them for their sins." 
Psalms149:8 They must tie up the foreign kings with chains, and put the rulers in prison." 
Psalms149:9 They must do that to punish their enemies in the way that is right. That is how God will cause his people to become great. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! 
Psalms150:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! Praise God in his temple. Praise him high in the sky, where he shows his great strength." 
Psalms150:2 Praise God for the great things that he has done. Praise him because he is great and powerful. 
Psalms150:3 Praise him with music! Yes! Use trumpets, harps and lyres to praise God!" 
Psalms150:4 Dance and hit drums to praise him! Make music with harps and flutes to praise him! 
Psalms150:5 Make music with big cymbals and small cymbals to praise him! 
Psalms150:6 Everything that is alive should praise the Lord! Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! 
Proverbs1:1 These are the proverbs of Solomon, David's son, king of Israel." 
Proverbs1:2 These are proverbs that will make you wise. They will help you to learn things and to understand good teaching. 
Proverbs1:3 They will help you to understand how to live a good life. They will teach you how to live as a person who is good, honest and fair." 
Proverbs1:4 They can cause even silly people to become clever. They teach young people what they should know, so that they can live well." 
Proverbs1:5 Wise people should also listen carefully, so that they learn something new. And people with clever minds can learn to live in a good way." 
Proverbs1:6 People will learn to understand what proverbs and picture stories mean. They will understand the teaching and clever messages of wise people. 
Proverbs1:7 If you want to know how to live in a good way, you must first learn to respect the Lord with fear. Fools refuse to listen to wise teaching." 
Proverbs1:8 Listen, my child, when your father shows you what is right. And do not forget what your mother has taught you." 
Proverbs1:9 Their teaching will bring you honour, like a beautiful crown or a valuable necklace." 
Proverbs1:10 My child, if sinners want you to join with them, do not agree!" 
Proverbs1:11 They may say, ‘Come with us. We will find someone to murder. We will attack any helpless person that we choose." 
Proverbs1:12 We will send them quickly to their graves. They may be strong and healthy, but they will soon be under the earth." 
Proverbs1:13 We will take all their valuable things for ourselves. We will fill our houses with lots of good things. 
Proverbs1:14 So come and join us! We will share with each other everything that we rob from other people.’ 
Proverbs1:15 My child, do not go along with people like that. Stay away from them." 
Proverbs1:16 They are in a hurry to do evil things. They cannot wait to murder someone! 
Proverbs1:17 Think about it! If you put a trap where the birds can see it, you will never catch anything." 
Proverbs1:18 These wicked men hide to attack someone. They are ready to kill someone, but they destroy their own lives!" 
Proverbs1:19 That is what happens to those who cheat other people to become rich themselves. The riches that they have taken from others will destroy their own lives. 
Proverbs1:20 Listen! Wisdom is like a woman who shouts in the streets. She speaks loudly in the market places. 
Proverbs1:21 She shouts above the noise in the city's streets. She calls aloud at its gates. This is what she says: 
Proverbs1:22 ‘Listen to me! Will you foolish people continue to be so silly? You people who laugh at God, will you always be like that? Will fools always refuse to learn anything?" 
Proverbs1:23 Listen to me as I warn you of danger! Then I will let you know my thoughts. I will let you hear my message. 
Proverbs1:24 I called out to you, but you refused to listen. I reached out to you, but you turned your backs to me." 
Proverbs1:25 You would not accept my teaching. When I warned you, you did nothing." 
Proverbs1:26 So, when trouble comes to you, I will laugh. I will laugh at you when you are afraid." 
Proverbs1:27 Fear may hit you like a strong wind. Trouble may knock you down, like a storm. Your problems may make you very afraid. But I will laugh at you." 
Proverbs1:28 Foolish people will call to me for help, but I will not answer. They will look for me everywhere, but they will not find me." 
Proverbs1:29 They have refused to learn what is right. They have refused to respect the Lord. 
Proverbs1:30 They have not agreed to my advice. When I warned them, they turned away." 
Proverbs1:31 So now they will receive the trouble that they deserve. Their own wicked ideas will make them sick. 
Proverbs1:32 Silly people have turned away from me, and that will kill them. Fools like an easy life, and that will destroy them." 
Proverbs1:33 But whoever listens to me, Wisdom, will live safely. That person will have peace in his mind. He will not be afraid of trouble.’" 
Proverbs2:1 My child, listen to my teaching. Think about my commands." 
Proverbs2:2 Listen carefully, so that you understand what wisdom really is." 
Proverbs2:3 Yes, always try to learn what is right. Never stop trying to understand." 
Proverbs2:4 Look for wisdom as carefully as you would look for silver or valuable jewels. 
Proverbs2:5 Then you will understand how to respect the Lord with fear. You will learn all about God. 
Proverbs2:6 It is the Lord who gives wisdom to people. He teaches us to understand things, so that we know what is true." 
Proverbs2:7 He helps good people to be wise in how they live. And he keeps honest people safe. 
Proverbs2:8 He protects the lives of righteous people. He takes care of people who serve him faithfully. 
Proverbs2:9 So learn from God. Then you will understand what is right, true and fair. You will know the best way to live." 
Proverbs2:10 You will become wise in your thoughts. Your knowledge of what is right will make you happy. 
Proverbs2:11 You will know the right thing to do, and that will keep you safe." 
Proverbs2:12 You will not join with wicked people. You will keep away from those who speak false things. 
Proverbs2:13 Those people no longer follow honest ways. They live in dark places. 
Proverbs2:14 They enjoy doing wicked and evil things. 
Proverbs2:15 They only do wrong things. They are always deceiving others. 
Proverbs2:16 If you have wisdom, you will not listen to the sweet words of a prostitute. You will not let a woman like that deceive you. That kind of woman likes to have sex with many people." 
Proverbs2:17 She leaves her own husband that she married when she was young. Now she forgets what she promised to God at the time of her marriage. 
Proverbs2:18 Do not go into her house! If you do, you will be on the road to death. If you follow her, you will arrive at the home of the spirits of dead people." 
Proverbs2:19 Anybody who visits her will never return. He will never find the way back to a good life. 
Proverbs2:20 If you have wisdom, you will enjoy life, as good people do. You will live as righteous people live." 
Proverbs2:21 Good and honest people will continue to live in our land. 
Proverbs2:22 But God will remove wicked people from the land. He will throw out all those who are not faithful. 
Proverbs3:1 My child, do not forget what I teach you. Always think carefully about my commands." 
Proverbs3:2 If you obey them, you will live a long life. You will have peace in your mind and you will enjoy your life." 
Proverbs3:3 Keep hold of faithful love. That will be like a beautiful necklace that you always wear. Think about what it means to love other people. 
Proverbs3:4 If you do that, you will make God happy. People will also be pleased and they will respect you." 
Proverbs3:5 Trust in the Lord completely. Do not think that you understand things well enough for yourself. 
Proverbs3:6 Whatever you are doing, remember that the Lord is with you. Then he will show you the right way to go." 
Proverbs3:7 Do not think that you are already wise enough. Obey the Lord and refuse to do evil things. 
Proverbs3:8 If you do that, it will make you healthy and strong." 
Proverbs3:9 Show that you respect the Lord in the way that you use your money. Offer the first part of the harvest from your farm to him. 
Proverbs3:10 If you do that, you will store more food than you need for yourself. You will have more wine than you can drink." 
Proverbs3:11 My child, if the Lord warns you that you have done something wrong, accept it. Do not be upset if he warns you." 
Proverbs3:12 He is doing it because he loves you. When a father loves his son very much, he warns him when he does something wrong." 
Proverbs3:13 Anyone who finds wisdom is in a happy place! So is the person who has learned to understand things. 
Proverbs3:14 Wisdom helps people better than silver or gold will ever help them. 
Proverbs3:15 Wisdom is more valuable than the most expensive jewels. Nothing that you might want for yourself is as good as wisdom. 
Proverbs3:16 Wisdom is ready to give you a long life. She will also give you riches and honour. 
Proverbs3:17 Wisdom will be your guide through a happy life. She will lead you in ways that keep you safe. 
Proverbs3:18 Wisdom is like a tree with fruits that give life to the people who pick them. The Lord blesses everyone who keeps hold of wisdom. 
Proverbs3:19 The Lord used wisdom to create the earth. He understood the right way to create the heavens. 
Proverbs3:20 He used his knowledge to pour water from under the earth into the rivers and seas. He caused the clouds to send down rain. 
Proverbs3:21 My child, always keep hold of wisdom and a good mind. Make sure that you keep them safe." 
Proverbs3:22 They will give you strength in life. You will enjoy life, like a beautiful necklace that you wear." 
Proverbs3:23 You will be safe as you travel through life. There will be no danger to make you fall down. 
Proverbs3:24 When you lie down to sleep, you will not be afraid. You will sleep well with peace in your mind." 
Proverbs3:25 You will not be frightened of any trouble that might surprise you. Trouble may destroy wicked people, but you will know that you are safe." 
Proverbs3:26 The Lord is the one who will take care of you. He will protect you, so that no danger can hurt you." 
Proverbs3:27 Do not refuse to help those people who need help. If you are able to help them, do it!" 
Proverbs3:28 If you can give your neighbour the help that he needs, do not say to him, ‘Go away! Come back tomorrow, and then I will help you.’" 
Proverbs3:29 Do not think of ways to hurt your neighbour. You should help him to trust you. 
Proverbs3:30 Do not quarrel with other people if they have done nothing to hurt you. You have no reason to accuse them of anything wrong. 
Proverbs3:31 Do not be jealous of cruel people. Do not try to copy the things that they do. 
Proverbs3:32 The Lord hates wicked people, but he makes righteous people his friends." 
Proverbs3:33 The Lord curses the homes of wicked people, but he blesses the homes of righteous people." 
Proverbs3:34 The Lord laughs at proud people who laugh at other people, but he is kind to humble people." 
Proverbs3:35 Wise people will receive honour, But fools will only have shame." 
Proverbs4:1 My children, listen to what your father teaches you. Listen carefully so that you understand what is right." 
Proverbs4:2 My teaching will help you, so do not refuse it." 
Proverbs4:3 My father taught me when I was a little boy. My mother loved me as her only child. My father said to me, ‘Think carefully about what I tell you. If you obey my commands, you will live well." 
Proverbs4:4  
Proverbs4:5 Learn to be wise and to understand things properly. Do not forget my teaching or turn away from it. 
Proverbs4:6 If you keep hold of wisdom, she will keep you safe. She will protect you if you love her." 
Proverbs4:7 Learn to be wise, because wisdom is the most important thing to have. Make sure that you learn to understand things well." 
Proverbs4:8 Respect wisdom as very valuable, then she will make you great. If you make her your friend, she will give you honour." 
Proverbs4:9 Wisdom will bless you, as if you are wearing a beautiful crown on your head.’" 
Proverbs4:10 So listen to me, my child, and accept my teaching. If you do, the years of your life will be many." 
Proverbs4:11 I am teaching you to be wise, so that you will know the right way to live." 
Proverbs4:12 As you walk through life, nothing will stop you. Even when you run, you will not fall." 
Proverbs4:13 Keep hold of my teaching. Do not forget it. Keep it safe because it will give you a good life. 
Proverbs4:14 Do not join with wicked or evil people. Do not do the things that they do. 
Proverbs4:15 Keep away from them! Be sure to keep to your own good way of life. 
Proverbs4:16 Wicked people have to do evil things. They cannot go to sleep unless they have been cruel to someone that day. 
Proverbs4:17 Evil acts are their food. Violence is their drink. 
Proverbs4:18 The life of righteous people is like the sun at dawn. It gets brighter and brighter until midday. 
Proverbs4:19 But the life of wicked people is like a very dark road. They cannot even see what causes them to fall. 
Proverbs4:20 My child, listen carefully to my teaching and to everything that I tell you." 
Proverbs4:21 Never forget my words. Keep them safe in your mind. 
Proverbs4:22 They will give true life to anyone who takes hold of them. They will give health to your whole body. 
Proverbs4:23 Be very careful to keep your mind safe. The thoughts that you think make you the person that you are. 
Proverbs4:24 Never tell lies or try to deceive other people. 
Proverbs4:25 Look straight in front of you to see clearly where you are going. 
Proverbs4:26 Decide carefully where you are going in life. Then you will be on a good, safe path." 
Proverbs4:27 Do not walk off your path, to the right side or the left side. Keep away from everything that is evil." 
Proverbs5:1 My child, listen carefully to the wisdom that I teach you. I will teach you how to understand things well." 
Proverbs5:2 If you learn this, you will choose to do the right things in life. Your words will show that you are wise." 
Proverbs5:3 Do not listen to the words of an adulteress. She promises something as sweet as honey and as beautiful as olive oil. 
Proverbs5:4 But in the end, she gives you bitter food, like poison. She gives you pain like a sharp sword." 
Proverbs5:5 She will lead you down to the place of death. You will follow her to your grave! 
Proverbs5:6 She does not think about the way that leads to true life. She has lost the right road but she does not understand what she is doing. 
Proverbs5:7 So listen to me, my children. Never forget what I am telling you." 
Proverbs5:8 Keep far away from a woman like that! Do not even go near the door of her house. 
Proverbs5:9 If you go with her, you will lose your honour. A cruel person will rob you of the best years of your life." 
Proverbs5:10 Strangers will take all your money. The good things that you have worked for will belong to someone else. 
Proverbs5:11 At the end of your life, you will weep with pain. Your body will be sick and weak." 
Proverbs5:12 You will say, ‘I should have listened when people warned me that I was doing bad things." 
Proverbs5:13 I did not listen to my teachers. I refused to obey them. 
Proverbs5:14 Now I will be completely ashamed when I meet together with all the people.’ 
Proverbs5:15 You should enjoy your own wife, as you enjoy clean water to drink." 
Proverbs5:16 You would not pour your good water onto the streets. So do not waste your love on other women. 
Proverbs5:17 Keep it for you and your wife. Do not share it with other women. 
Proverbs5:18 Enjoy sex with your own wife. May the wife that you married when you were young continue to give you joy. 
Proverbs5:19 May she be as pretty and beautiful as a young deer. May her breasts always make you happy. May she love you in a way that gives you joy. 
Proverbs5:20 So my son, do not let an adulteress deceive you. Do not enjoy the body of another man's wife." 
Proverbs5:21 The Lord sees everything that a person does. He knows every path that you go along. 
Proverbs5:22 The sins of a wicked person will be the trap that catches him. They will hold him like strong ropes. 
Proverbs5:23 He cannot control his sins, so he will die. He will become lost, because he does such stupid things." 
Proverbs6:1 My child, be careful not to promise more than you can really do. You may have promised to pay the debts of a friend or of a stranger." 
Proverbs6:2 Then what you have promised to do may become a trap that catches you. 
Proverbs6:3 Now you need to escape from your problem. Your friend has got power over you. So you must be humble. Go quickly to him and ask him to forgive the debt. 
Proverbs6:4 Do not let yourself sleep or even stop to rest until you have met with him. 
Proverbs6:5 You must make yourself free from the trap. Escape quickly, like a bird or a deer that runs away from a hunter." 
Proverbs6:6 Learn a lesson from the ants, you lazy person! See how hard they work." 
Proverbs6:7 They have no leader or ruler," 
Proverbs6:8 but they get their food during the summer. At the time of harvest they store food to prepare for winter. 
Proverbs6:9 But you, you lazy man, you lie in bed too long! Will you never get up to work?" 
Proverbs6:10 You say, ‘I will have a short sleep. I will rest quietly for a while.’" 
Proverbs6:11 But while you sleep you will suddenly become poor. You will have nothing, as if someone has robbed you." 
Proverbs6:12 A useless, wicked person is always deceiving people." 
Proverbs6:13 He sends secret messages with his eyes, his feet or his fingers." 
Proverbs6:14 He uses evil thoughts to decide how he will hurt people. Wherever he goes, there is trouble." 
Proverbs6:15 Because of this, trouble will suddenly happen to him. It will knock him down and he will never get up again." 
Proverbs6:16 There are six things that the Lord hates, or even seven things:" 
Proverbs6:17 Eyes that show how proud a person is. A mouth that speaks lies. Hands that kill people who have done nothing wrong. 
Proverbs6:18 A mind that chooses to do wicked things. Feet that hurry to do evil things. 
Proverbs6:19 A person who tells lies in court. A person who causes trouble in a family. 
Proverbs6:20 My child, obey your father's commands. Do not forget what your mother has taught you." 
Proverbs6:21 Keep their teaching in your thoughts. Keep it as near to you as a necklace that you wear. 
Proverbs6:22 Wherever you go in life, their words will be your guide. They will keep you safe while you sleep. When you wake up, they will teach you." 
Proverbs6:23 Their commands and their teaching are like a lamp that gives you light. When they warn you that you are doing wrong things, that helps you to live well." 
Proverbs6:24 They will keep you safe from any bad woman, so that the sweet words of an adulteress will not deceive you." 
Proverbs6:25 Do not keep thinking how beautiful her body is. Do not let her use her eyes like a trap to catch you. 
Proverbs6:26 If you sleep with a prostitute, that may cost the price of a meal. But if you sleep with another man's wife, you may pay with your life." 
Proverbs6:27 You cannot carry fire next to your body and not burn your clothes. 
Proverbs6:28 You cannot walk over hot pieces of coal and not burn your feet. 
Proverbs6:29 It is the same when a man has sex with another man's wife. Anyone who does that will receive punishment that hurts him. 
Proverbs6:30 If someone steals food because he is hungry, people may not think that he has done something bad." 
Proverbs6:31 But if someone catches him, he must pay back seven times what he took. He may lose everything that he has in his house." 
Proverbs6:32 But a man who sleeps with another man's wife is stupid. He is destroying his own life. 
Proverbs6:33 He deserves his punishment and shame. He will never stop being ashamed. 
Proverbs6:34 The woman's husband will be jealous, and he will become very angry. He will want the man to receive full punishment." 
Proverbs6:35 He will not accept any money or a bribe to pay the debt, even if it is a lot of money." 
Proverbs7:1 My child, remember what I say. Keep my commands in your mind." 
Proverbs7:2 Obey my commands, so that you live well. Keep my teaching safe. It is as valuable as your own eyes." 
Proverbs7:3 Keep it always in front of you. Think about my message all the time, as if you have written deep inside you." 
Proverbs7:4 Love wisdom in the same way that you love your sister. Be very careful to understand what is right. 
Proverbs7:5 If you do that, it will keep you safe from sin. You will not agree to sleep with an adulteress or a prostitute when she speaks sweet words to you." 
Proverbs7:6 Once I was looking out through the window of my house. 
Proverbs7:7 I saw a group of silly young men. One of them was not wise at all. 
Proverbs7:8 He was walking along the street near the house of a certain woman. 
Proverbs7:9 It was in the evening after it had become dark. 
Proverbs7:10 Then the woman came out to meet him! She was wearing the clothes of a prostitute. She knew what she wanted to do. 
Proverbs7:11 This was a woman who did not respect anyone. She was not ashamed of the bad things that she did. She never stayed at her home. 
Proverbs7:12 Instead she would stand in the streets and in the market place. She would wait at the corners of the streets to find a man. 
Proverbs7:13 Now she took hold of the young man and she kissed him. She looked into his eyes without any shame. 
Proverbs7:14 She said to him, ‘I offered a sacrifice to God today and I have the meat at my home." 
Proverbs7:15 That is why I came out to meet you. I was looking for you, and now I have found you!" 
Proverbs7:16 I have covered my bed with beautiful blankets and with valuable cloths from Egypt. 
Proverbs7:17 I have splashed many kinds of perfume on my bed, like myrrh, aloes and cinnamon." 
Proverbs7:18 So come and join me for the night. We can lie in each other's arms. All night, we can enjoy as much sex as we like." 
Proverbs7:19 My husband is not at home. He has gone away on a long journey. 
Proverbs7:20 He took a big bag of money with him. He will not come back until later this month.’ 
Proverbs7:21 With those sweet words she deceived the young man. She made him want to be with her. 
Proverbs7:22 Suddenly he hurried to follow her! He went like an ox that men are leading to its death. He went like a deer that is running towards a trap. 
Proverbs7:23 Then an arrow will go straight into its body and kill it! The young man was like a bird that is flying into a trap. He did not know that his life was in danger. 
Proverbs7:24 So listen to me, my sons. Listen carefully to what I am saying." 
Proverbs7:25 Do not let that kind of woman spoil your mind. Do not let her lead you away from what is right. 
Proverbs7:26 She has caused many men to fall. Because of her, too many men have thrown away their lives." 
Proverbs7:27 If you go to her house, you are on the road to death. You will soon be in your grave." 
Proverbs8:1 Listen! Wisdom is calling out. She wants you to understand what is right, so she speaks with a loud voice." 
Proverbs8:2 She stands where people will hear her, on the hills along the road. She stands where different paths meet." 
Proverbs8:3 She stands near the gates where people go into the city. This is what she says: 
Proverbs8:4 ‘I call out to all of you, wherever you live on earth." 
Proverbs8:5 You who are silly, learn to be wise! You who are fools, learn to understand what is right." 
Proverbs8:6 Listen! I have important things to tell you. Everything that I will speak is right. 
Proverbs8:7 I say only things that are true. I hate all wicked lies. 
Proverbs8:8 Everything that I say is right and true. I say nothing that will deceive you. 
Proverbs8:9 If you understand what is right, you will understand all my words. If you have knowledge, you will know that they are true." 
Proverbs8:10 Receive my wise teaching and knowledge as valuable things. They are more valuable than silver or the best gold. 
Proverbs8:11 Wisdom is more valuable than jewels. Nothing that you might ever want is equal to it. 
Proverbs8:12 I, Wisdom, live with an honest mind as my friend. I have knowledge and I understand what is right." 
Proverbs8:13 If you respect the Lord with fear, you will hate anything that is evil. I hate proud people who boast. I hate people who live evil lives. I hate people who say things to deceive others." 
Proverbs8:14 I tell people how to do wise things that are right. I understand what is right and I am strong. 
Proverbs8:15 I help kings to rule well. I help rulers to make fair laws. 
Proverbs8:16 I help leaders, officers and all judges to lead people in a good way." 
Proverbs8:17 I love those people who love me. Whoever looks for me will find me. 
Proverbs8:18 I am able to give people riches and honour. I help people to use their money well and to do what is right. 
Proverbs8:19 What you receive from me is better than the best gold. It is better than the best silver. 
Proverbs8:20 I walk along the way that is righteous. I follow the path of justice. 
Proverbs8:21 In that way, people who love me will receive riches. I fill their houses with valuable things." 
Proverbs8:22 The Lord created me as the first thing that he did. That was the first of his acts long ago. 
Proverbs8:23 He chose me as his servant from the beginning of time. That was before the world began. 
Proverbs8:24 I was born before the deep seas were there. There were not yet springs that poured out water. 
Proverbs8:25 I was born before the mountains or the hills appeared in their places. 
Proverbs8:26 I was born before the Lord made the earth and its fields, before there was soil on the earth." 
Proverbs8:27 I was there when he put the heavens in their place. I was there when he made the border of the sea where it meets the sky. 
Proverbs8:28 I was there when he put the clouds in the sky. I was there when he made streams of water fill the seas. 
Proverbs8:29 He gave his command to the seas, that they should obey him. The waters of the sea must stay inside its borders. I was there when he built the foundations of the earth." 
Proverbs8:30 When the Lord made all that happen, I was beside him as his faithful helper. I pleased him every day, and I was happy to be with him." 
Proverbs8:31 The world that he had made gave me great joy. The people who lived on it made me happy. 
Proverbs8:32 So listen to me, my children. Anyone who obeys my teaching will be happy." 
Proverbs8:33 Listen when I tell you what is right for you to do. Then you will be wise. Do not forget what I tell you. 
Proverbs8:34 Anyone who listens to me is in a happy place. You can wait outside my home each day, and I will teach you." 
Proverbs8:35 Anyone who finds me, Wisdom, finds true life. The Lord will bless that person." 
Proverbs8:36 But anyone who does not find me brings trouble on himself. Everybody who hates me loves death.’ 
Proverbs9:1 The woman who is called ‘ Wisdom ’ has built her house with seven pillars to make it strong. 
Proverbs9:2 She has killed an animal for a big meal. She has mixed her wine. She has also prepared her table. 
Proverbs9:3 She has sent her servants to shout a message from the highest places in the town. 
Proverbs9:4 She says to foolish people, ‘Come here to me.’ She says to people who do not understand what is right," 
Proverbs9:5 ‘Come here and eat my food. Drink the wine that I have mixed. 
Proverbs9:6 Leave foolish ways so that you may live. Learn to understand what is right, so that you can do it.’" 
Proverbs9:7 If you warn a person who is proud, he will insult you. If you tell a wicked person that he is wrong, he will hurt you." 
Proverbs9:8 So do not warn proud people. They will only hate you. But if you warn a wise person, he will love you." 
Proverbs9:9 If you teach a wise person, he will become even more wise. If you teach a righteous person, he will learn whatever you tell him." 
Proverbs9:10 If you want to be wise in the way that you live, first you must respect the Lord with fear. If you know God, the Holy One, you will understand what is right." 
Proverbs9:11 Wisdom will add more days and years to your life. 
Proverbs9:12 If you are wise, it will help you in many ways. But if you think that you do not need wisdom, you will bring trouble on yourself." 
Proverbs9:13 The woman who is called ‘Fool’ speaks in a loud voice. She is silly and she does not know anything. 
Proverbs9:14 She sits at the door of her house. She also has a seat at the highest part of the city. 
Proverbs9:15 She shouts her message to people as they pass along the road to do their work. 
Proverbs9:16 She says to people who do not understand what is right, ‘Anyone who is foolish should come in here." 
Proverbs9:17 If you drink water that belongs to someone else, it tastes very sweet! If you eat food secretly, it tastes better than anything! So come and enjoy my meal!’" 
Proverbs9:18 But those foolish people do not realize that her home is a place for dead people. Her visitors are already in their graves. 
Proverbs10:1 These are the proverbs of Solomon. A wise child makes his father happy. But a foolish child causes his mother to be sad. 
Proverbs10:2 If you are not honest, your money will not help you. But if you are righteous, it will save you from death." 
Proverbs10:3 The Lord will not let righteous people be hungry. But he will not let bad people get what they want. 
Proverbs10:4 If a man is lazy, he will soon be poor. But if he works hard, he will become rich." 
Proverbs10:5 A wise man cuts his crops at harvest time and he stores them. But anyone who does no work at harvest time brings shame. 
Proverbs10:6 God blesses righteous people. But the words of wicked people hide their anger. 
Proverbs10:7 It is a pleasure to remember righteous people. But when wicked people die, people soon forget their name." 
Proverbs10:8 Wise people accept good teaching. But people who talk in a foolish way destroy themselves. 
Proverbs10:9 If people are honest, their lives are safe. But those who are not honest will receive punishment." 
Proverbs10:10 Someone who deceives his friends causes trouble. And someone who speaks in foolish ways will destroy himself. 
Proverbs10:11 The teaching of righteous people gives life, like a spring of water. But the words of wicked people hide their anger." 
Proverbs10:12 When people hate others, it causes arguments. But love covers over all sins." 
Proverbs10:13 People who understand what is right speak wise words. But silly people receive the punishment that they deserve. 
Proverbs10:14 Wise people store knowledge in their minds. But when foolish people speak, trouble is near." 
Proverbs10:15 Money keeps rich people safe, like a strong city. But poor people die because they have no one to help them." 
Proverbs10:16 Righteous people receive life as their wages. Wicked people receive only punishment. 
Proverbs10:17 People who listen when people warn them are on the road to life. But those who refuse to listen are on a different road. 
Proverbs10:18 If you hate somebody but you try to hide it, you are telling lies. And if you say false things about other people, you are a fool." 
Proverbs10:19 If you talk too much, you will soon do something wrong. But if you are wise, you will stop talking." 
Proverbs10:20 The words of righteous people are as valuable as the best silver. But the thoughts of wicked people are useless. 
Proverbs10:21 The teaching of righteous people will help many people. But foolish people die because they are so stupid. 
Proverbs10:22 If the Lord blesses you, you are really rich. Hard work will not make you any richer." 
Proverbs10:23 A foolish person is happy when he does wicked things. But a wise person enjoys doing things that are right. 
Proverbs10:24 The trouble that wicked people are afraid of will certainly happen to them. But righteous people will receive the things that they want. 
Proverbs10:25 When the storm has finished, wicked people are no longer there. But righteous people are still standing safely." 
Proverbs10:26 Do not send a lazy person with a message. He will bring you pain, like the taste of bitter wine, or like smoke in your eyes." 
Proverbs10:27 If you respect and obey the Lord, you will live longer. But wicked people will die before they are old." 
Proverbs10:28 What good people hope to receive causes them to be happy. But wicked people never receive what they hope for. 
Proverbs10:29 The Lord keeps honest people safe. But he punishes people who do wrong things. 
Proverbs10:30 Righteous people will always have a safe place to live. But wicked people will not continue to live in the land. 
Proverbs10:31 Righteous people speak wise words. But those who speak evil things will lose their tongues! 
Proverbs10:32 Righteous people say kind things. But wicked people say things that hurt others. 
Proverbs11:1 The Lord hates traders who deceive people. He is happy when they are honest and they use true weights. 
Proverbs11:2 If people are proud, they will soon become ashamed. But if people are humble, they become wise." 
Proverbs11:3 Good people are honest, and that shows them the right way to live. But wicked people are not honest, and that destroys them." 
Proverbs11:4 When it is time for God to punish you, money will not help you to escape. But if you are righteous, that will save you from death." 
Proverbs11:5 An honest man who is righteous has a straight path to walk on. But the sins of a wicked person will cause him to fall down. 
Proverbs11:6 When honest people are righteous, that will keep them safe. But the bad things that wicked people want will catch them in a trap." 
Proverbs11:7 When a wicked person dies, he has no hope for anything good. Everything that he hoped his strength would give him disappears!" 
Proverbs11:8 Righteous people escape from trouble. The trouble happens to wicked people instead. 
Proverbs11:9 People who do not respect God say things that destroy their friends. But the knowledge that righteous people have keeps them safe. 
Proverbs11:10 When righteous people do well, everyone in the city is happy. And people shout with joy when wicked people die." 
Proverbs11:11 A city becomes great when honest men bring God's blessing to it. But when wicked people give bad advice, they will destroy the city." 
Proverbs11:12 When someone insults his neighbour, it shows that he is foolish. But a wise person stays quiet." 
Proverbs11:13 If a person talks too much about other people, he will soon tell their secrets. But someone that you can trust will not tell your secrets to other people." 
Proverbs11:14 A nation will fall if it has no wise leaders. But it will do well if there are people who give good advice. 
Proverbs11:15 If you promise to pay a stranger's debt, you will be sorry. You will be safe if you do not agree to do that." 
Proverbs11:16 A kind woman receives honour. But cruel men only get riches for themselves. 
Proverbs11:17 A faithful person helps himself with good things. But a cruel person brings trouble on himself. 
Proverbs11:18 A wicked person gets riches that soon disappear. But someone who lives in a good way will surely receive good things. 
Proverbs11:19 If someone continues to do what is right, he will live. But if someone loves to do evil things, he will die." 
Proverbs11:20 The Lord hates people who have wrong thoughts. But he is pleased with people who live in an honest way. 
Proverbs11:21 Be sure about this: evil people will receive the punishment that they deserve. But people who are righteous will escape. 
Proverbs11:22 A beautiful woman who turns away from wisdom is like a gold ring in a pig's nose. 
Proverbs11:23 Righteous people want good things to happen. Wicked people only hope to cause anger. 
Proverbs11:24 Somebody may share his things with other people, but he still becomes richer. Somebody else may keep the things that he should give to others, but he still becomes poor." 
Proverbs11:25 If you help other people with your money, you will do well. If you give water to thirsty people, you will not be thirsty yourself." 
Proverbs11:26 If you refuse to sell food to hungry people, they will curse you. But if you sell it to them, they will praise you." 
Proverbs11:27 If you try to do good things, people will respect you. But if you want evil things to happen, they will happen to you!" 
Proverbs11:28 If somebody trusts his riches to keep him safe, he will fall like a leaf that falls from a tree. But a righteous person will grow strong, like a fresh green leaf." 
Proverbs11:29 Anyone who causes trouble for his family will not receive any good thing from them. A foolish person like that will become the servant of a wise person. 
Proverbs11:30 The good things that a righteous person does bring life. A person who saves people's lives shows that he is wise. 
Proverbs11:31 Righteous people receive what they deserve, here on this earth. So you can be sure that cruel and wicked people will receive their punishment." 
Proverbs12:1 Do you want to know the right way to live? Then you must accept it when people warn you that you have done something wrong. Only stupid people hate it when people warn them. 
Proverbs12:2 The Lord helps good people. But he punishes people who want to do evil things. 
Proverbs12:3 No one can use wicked things to make himself safe. But a righteous person has strong roots. 
Proverbs12:4 A good wife will bring honour to her husband, like a crown. But a wife who brings shame to her husband will take away his strength." 
Proverbs12:5 Righteous people want to do things that are right. But do not trust the advice of wicked people. 
Proverbs12:6 The words of wicked people are like a trap that will kill good people. But the words of honest people will save people's lives. 
Proverbs12:7 Wicked people soon come to an end and they disappear. But the families of righteous people will continue to be strong. 
Proverbs12:8 People will praise a wise person, as much as his wisdom deserves. But no one will respect a person who is stupid." 
Proverbs12:9 It is better to be a humble person who has a servant than a proud person who has no food to eat. 
Proverbs12:10 Righteous people take care of their animals. But wicked people are cruel even when they think they are kind. 
Proverbs12:11 A farmer who works hard will have plenty of food to eat. But anyone who works only on useless things is foolish. 
Proverbs12:12 Wicked people want to take the things that other bad people have. But righteous people remain strong, with deep roots." 
Proverbs12:13 The lies of evil people put them in trouble. But righteous people escape from trouble. 
Proverbs12:14 If you say good things, you will receive good things that make you happy. You will receive what you deserve from the things that you do." 
Proverbs12:15 Foolish people always do what seems right to them. But wise people listen to advice from others. 
Proverbs12:16 When a fool becomes angry, everybody knows it! But a careful person keeps quiet when someone insults him." 
Proverbs12:17 Honest people speak the truth in court. But a person who tells lies never says what is true. 
Proverbs12:18 If you speak in a careless way, you may hurt other people. But when wise people speak, it makes people feel well." 
Proverbs12:19 True words continue to be true for ever. But people quickly see that lies are lies. 
Proverbs12:20 Someone who wants to cause trouble has a mind that is full of lies. But someone who wants to bring peace has a mind that is full of joy. 
Proverbs12:21 Trouble keeps away from righteous people. But wicked people have trouble all the time. 
Proverbs12:22 The Lord hates people who tell lies. But he is pleased with people who do what they promise to do. 
Proverbs12:23 Careful people keep quiet about how much they know. But foolish people show everyone how silly they are. 
Proverbs12:24 If you work hard, you will become a leader. But if you are lazy, you will become a slave." 
Proverbs12:25 If you worry all the time, it will make you sad. But kind words will make you happy." 
Proverbs12:26 A righteous person gives good advice to his friends. But wicked people are always taking the wrong path. 
Proverbs12:27 A lazy person does not cook the animals that he has caught. But if you work hard, you will enjoy many valuable things." 
Proverbs12:28 If you do what is right, you will find true life. Along that path, there is no death." 
Proverbs13:1 A wise son listens to his father's teaching. But if you tell a proud person that he is wrong, he will not listen." 
Proverbs13:2 If you say kind words, you will eat good things. But wicked people only want to be cruel." 
Proverbs13:3 Someone who thinks before he speaks will keep his life safe. But someone who talks too much will destroy himself. 
Proverbs13:4 A lazy person always wants to have more, but he will not get it. If a person works hard, he will have more than he needs." 
Proverbs13:5 Honest people hate anything that is false. But wicked people do things that bring them shame. 
Proverbs13:6 When honest people do what is right, it keeps them safe. But when sinners do evil things, it destroys them." 
Proverbs13:7 Somebody who has nothing may still pretend to be rich. Somebody else may pretend to be poor, but he is very rich." 
Proverbs13:8 A rich person may have to use his money to save his life. But poor people do not have that problem. 
Proverbs13:9 Righteous people have joy that shines like a bright light. But wicked people have a light that will quickly go out. 
Proverbs13:10 A person who boasts only causes trouble. But if you accept good advice, it shows that you are wise." 
Proverbs13:11 If you try to get money quickly, you will not stay rich for long. But if you are patient, you will become rich little by little." 
Proverbs13:12 When you do not receive the things that you hope for, it makes you sad. But when you receive what you have always wanted, you are very happy." 
Proverbs13:13 If you do not accept good teaching, you will destroy yourself. If you accept good advice, it will help you to do well." 
Proverbs13:14 The teaching of wise people is like a spring of water that gives life. It will keep you away from death's dangerous traps. 
Proverbs13:15 People respect a person who has wise thoughts. But the way that wicked people live destroys them. 
Proverbs13:16 Careful people need to understand what they are doing. But a fool quickly shows how foolish he is. 
Proverbs13:17 If you send a message with a wicked person, he will cause trouble. But if you send someone that you can trust, he will bring peace." 
Proverbs13:18 Anyone who turns away from good teaching will become poor and ashamed. But if you accept advice when you do something wrong, people will respect you." 
Proverbs13:19 It is very nice to receive the things that you want. But foolish people refuse to stop doing evil things. 
Proverbs13:20 If you have wise people as your friends, you will become wise yourself. But if you have foolish friends, you will hurt yourself." 
Proverbs13:21 Trouble chases sinners and it catches them. But righteous people will receive good things. 
Proverbs13:22 When a good person dies, he leaves good things for his grandchildren. But a sinner's riches will belong to righteous people in the end." 
Proverbs13:23 Even a poor man's field may give him enough food. But he loses it because wicked people rob him. 
Proverbs13:24 If you do not punish your child, you show that you hate him. If you really love your child, you will punish him when he does something wrong." 
Proverbs13:25 Righteous people have plenty of food to eat. But wicked people have an empty stomach. 
Proverbs14:1 Every wise woman makes her home strong. But a foolish woman destroys her home with her own hands. 
Proverbs14:2 An honest person respects and obeys the Lord. But anyone who deceives other people shows that he does not respect the Lord. 
Proverbs14:3 When fools boast, they bring punishment on themselves. But the words of wise people keep them safe." 
Proverbs14:4 When a farmer has no oxen to plough his fields, he does not have to feed them. But he needs strong oxen to grow plenty of crops." 
Proverbs14:5 A faithful person will not tell lies in court. But someone who says false things always deceives. 
Proverbs14:6 If you only pretend that you want wisdom, you will not find it. But if you are careful, you will easily understand what is right." 
Proverbs14:7 Stay away from foolish people. They will stop you from learning anything that is wise. 
Proverbs14:8 A careful person understands what is right and he does it. But a foolish person's silly thoughts deceive him. 
Proverbs14:9 Fools think that they do not need to do anything about their sins. But God is pleased with people who do what is right. 
Proverbs14:10 When you are upset, you know how sad you are. No one else can know what you are feeling, sad or happy." 
Proverbs14:11 A wicked person's home will come to an end. But the home of a good person will continue to be strong. 
Proverbs14:12 You may think that you are on a good, straight road. But in the end, that road may lead you to death." 
Proverbs14:13 Somebody may be upset even when he is laughing. After his joy has gone, he will still be sad." 
Proverbs14:14 If someone turns away from what is right, he will receive the punishment that he deserves. But good people will receive the good things that they deserve." 
Proverbs14:15 A silly person will believe anything. But a careful person will think before he does anything. 
Proverbs14:16 A wise person is careful to keep away from trouble. But a fool is careless and he thinks that he is always right. 
Proverbs14:17 A person who quickly becomes angry does silly things. And people hate anyone with cruel ideas. 
Proverbs14:18 Silly people do foolish things, and they receive what they deserve. But wise people receive honour for their knowledge." 
Proverbs14:19 Evil people will respect good people. Wicked people will ask righteous people to be kind to them. 
Proverbs14:20 Even the neighbours of poor people do not like them. But rich people have many friends. 
Proverbs14:21 If you do not respect your neighbour, it is a sin. But if you are kind to helpless people, God will bless you." 
Proverbs14:22 People who want to do evil things have lost their way. But those who want to do good things show faithful love. 
Proverbs14:23 If you work hard, something good will come. But if you only talk about it, you will become poor." 
Proverbs14:24 For wise people, their riches are like a crown of honour. But fools only work to get foolish things." 
Proverbs14:25 Someone who speaks the truth in court may save a life. But someone who always tells lies deceives everyone. 
Proverbs14:26 Someone who respects and obeys the Lord knows that he will be safe. His family also will be in a safe place. 
Proverbs14:27 If you respect and obey the Lord, that is like a spring of water that gives you life. It will keep you safe from death's traps." 
Proverbs14:28 A king who rules many people will receive great honour. But a ruler with only a few people will have nothing in the end. 
Proverbs14:29 A patient man shows that he understands what is right. But someone who quickly becomes angry shows that he is foolish. 
Proverbs14:30 If you have peace in your mind, your body will be healthy. But if you are jealous, it will eat away your body." 
Proverbs14:31 If you are cruel to poor people, you are insulting God who created them. But if you are kind to helpless people, it shows that you respect God." 
Proverbs14:32 When wicked people are in trouble, they cannot stand. But righteous people still trust God even when they are in danger of death." 
Proverbs14:33 People who understand what is right have true wisdom. Even fools may sometimes show wisdom. 
Proverbs14:34 A nation will receive honour when its people do what is right. But sin will bring shame on its people. 
Proverbs14:35 A king will be pleased with a wise servant. But he will be angry with any servant who brings shame. 
Proverbs15:1 If you answer people in a kind way, it stops them being angry. But if you say cruel things, it makes people angry." 
Proverbs15:2 When wise people speak, they show that knowledge is good. But when fools speak, they only say foolish things." 
Proverbs15:3 The Lord sees what happens everywhere. He is watching what evil people do, and good people too." 
Proverbs15:4 Kind words are like the fruit of a tree that gives life. But words that are not honest make people sad and weak. 
Proverbs15:5 A fool hates his father's rules. But a wise child learns when his father warns him. 
Proverbs15:6 Righteous people have many valuable things in their homes. But the riches of wicked people bring trouble to them. 
Proverbs15:7 When wise people speak, they give knowledge, but the minds of fools have nothing to give." 
Proverbs15:8 When wicked people offer sacrifices to the Lord, he hates it. But he is pleased when good people pray to him." 
Proverbs15:9 The Lord hates the way that wicked people live. But he loves people who want to do what is right. 
Proverbs15:10 If you leave God's way, you will receive strong punishment. When people warn you, accept it or you will die." 
Proverbs15:11 The Lord sees clearly into the deep hole of death. So you can be sure that he knows people's secret thoughts. 
Proverbs15:12 Proud people do not like it when someone warns them. They will not ask wise people to give them advice. 
Proverbs15:13 When someone is happy, their face smiles. But when someone is sad, their spirit hurts." 
Proverbs15:14 Wise people want to learn more. But fools only want to know useless things. 
Proverbs15:15 Every day is difficult, if you have trouble in your mind. But if you are happy, every day is like a feast." 
Proverbs15:16 You may be poor but you respect and obey the Lord. That is better than if you are very rich but you have a lot of trouble. 
Proverbs15:17 It is better to eat vegetables with people who love each other than to eat good meat with people who hate each other. 
Proverbs15:18 Angry people bring quarrels, but patient people bring peace." 
Proverbs15:19 A lazy person always has problems, as if he is walking through thorn bushes. But an honest person walks on a straight road through life." 
Proverbs15:20 A wise child makes his father happy. But a foolish person does not respect his mother. 
Proverbs15:21 Stupid people are happy when they do foolish things. But wise people walk on a straight path. 
Proverbs15:22 Without good advice your ideas will never happen. But you will do well if you have many advisors. 
Proverbs15:23 It makes you happy when you give a good answer to a question. It is good when you find the right thing to say at the right time. 
Proverbs15:24 A wise person walks on a path that leads him up to a long life. He keeps away from the path that would lead him down to death. 
Proverbs15:25 The Lord destroys the homes of proud men. But he keeps the land of widows safe. 
Proverbs15:26 The Lord hates the thoughts of wicked people. But kind words please him. 
Proverbs15:27 Anyone who cheats people to become rich will cause trouble for his family. But anyone who refuses to accept bribes will live safely. 
Proverbs15:28 Righteous people think carefully before they answer someone. But when wicked people speak, the result is only trouble." 
Proverbs15:29 The Lord does not answer the prayers of wicked people. But when righteous people pray, he listens." 
Proverbs15:30 If someone smiles at you, it makes you happy. Good news makes you feel strong." 
Proverbs15:31 If anyone accepts teaching that helps him to live in a good way, he becomes a friend of wise people." 
Proverbs15:32 If you refuse to accept it when people warn you, you are hurting yourself. But if you agree to listen, you will learn to do what is right." 
Proverbs15:33 If you respect and obey the Lord, that will teach you wisdom. If you want to receive honour, first learn to be humble." 
Proverbs16:1 People make plans in their minds, but the Lord gives them the right words to say." 
Proverbs16:2 You may think that everything you do is right, but the Lord knows exactly why you are doing it." 
Proverbs16:3 Put your plans in front of the Lord, so that what you want to do will go well." 
Proverbs16:4 The Lord causes everything to have its proper result. Even wicked people will come to bad trouble in the end. 
Proverbs16:5 The Lord hates everyone who boasts. Be sure of this: they will receive the punishment that they deserve. 
Proverbs16:6 If you love the Lord faithfully, he will forgive your sins. If you respect and obey him, you will not do evil things." 
Proverbs16:7 If you live in a way that pleases the Lord, even your enemies will become your friends." 
Proverbs16:8 If you do what is right but you are not rich, that is better than to be rich because you cheat people." 
Proverbs16:9 People make plans for what they will do, but it is the Lord who leads them in the right way." 
Proverbs16:10 A king speaks with God's authority. He must judge people in a fair way. 
Proverbs16:11 The Lord wants people to use true weights and measures. He knows all the weights that a trader uses. 
Proverbs16:12 Kings hate all wicked acts, because justice makes their government strong." 
Proverbs16:13 Kings are happy to hear honest advice. They love people who speak true words. 
Proverbs16:14 Someone may die if the king becomes angry with him. So a wise person will try to stop the king's anger. 
Proverbs16:15 If the king smiles at you, your life will go well. If he is pleased with you, that is like a cloud which gives rain in the spring." 
Proverbs16:16 It is better to have wisdom than gold or silver. You should want to understand what is right. 
Proverbs16:17 Honest people follow a straight road that keeps them away from evil things. If you want to keep your life safe, watch where you are going." 
Proverbs16:18 If you are proud, you will soon come to an end. Anyone who boasts will soon fall down." 
Proverbs16:19 You may be humble and have poor people as your friends. But that is better than if you have proud friends who give you things that they have robbed from others. 
Proverbs16:20 If you listen carefully to good teaching, you will have success. If you trust in the Lord, you are in a happy place." 
Proverbs16:21 If you have wise thoughts, people will say that you know what is right. If you speak kind words, people will accept your teaching." 
Proverbs16:22 Wisdom is like a spring of fresh water which gives life to those who have it. But the silly things that fools do brings them punishment. 
Proverbs16:23 Wise people think carefully and they speak wise words. Then other people will accept their teaching. 
Proverbs16:24 Kind words are as sweet as honey. They also bring health and strength. 
Proverbs16:25 You may think that you are on a good, straight road. But in the end, that road may lead you to death." 
Proverbs16:26 When a worker feels hungry, it causes him to work more. So it helps him to get food to eat." 
Proverbs16:27 Wicked people look for ways to hurt other people. The cruel things that they say are like flames of fire. 
Proverbs16:28 People who tell lies cause arguments. If you tell people's secrets, you will lose all your friends." 
Proverbs16:29 Violent people deceive their friends. They lead their friends to do wrong things. 
Proverbs16:30 If someone sends secret messages with his eyes, he has a plan to hurt someone. If he squeezes his lips together, he is ready to do an evil thing." 
Proverbs16:31 Grey hair is like a beautiful crown on your head! People who live in a righteous way may wear it. 
Proverbs16:32 A person who is patient is better than a brave soldier. If you can control your anger, you can win any battle." 
Proverbs16:33 People throw dice to choose what is right. But it is the Lord who decides the answer. 
Proverbs17:1 It is better to eat a piece of dry bread in a quiet place than to eat a big feast in a house full of arguments. 
Proverbs17:2 A slave who is wise will have authority over a son who does stupid things. When his master dies, that slave will receive some of his valuable things." 
Proverbs17:3 You need a hot fire to make silver and gold become pure. It is the Lord who does that for people, to show what they are really like." 
Proverbs17:4 People who do evil things listen to evil advice. People who tell lies listen to other people's lies. 
Proverbs17:5 If you laugh at poor people, you are insulting God, who made them. If you are happy when trouble happens to other people, you will receive the punishment that you deserve." 
Proverbs17:6 Old people should be proud of their grandchildren. In the same way, children should be proud of their parents." 
Proverbs17:7 It does not seem right when a fool says clever things. It is certainly not right when a ruler tells lies. 
Proverbs17:8 Somebody who offers a bribe thinks that it will work like magic. It will help him to do whatever he wants to do. 
Proverbs17:9 If you forgive people when they hurt you, they will still love you. But if you continue to talk about what they have done, they will no longer be your friends." 
Proverbs17:10 You can warn a wise person once and he will learn what is right. But a fool never learns, even if you hit him a hundred times." 
Proverbs17:11 An evil person never obeys authority, so a cruel messenger will come to punish him." 
Proverbs17:12 Do not go near a fool who is doing stupid things. It would be safer to meet a mother bear who has lost her babies. 
Proverbs17:13 If people are kind to you, do not do evil things in return. Anyone who does that will always have trouble in his home." 
Proverbs17:14 It is difficult to stop a quarrel once it has started. It is like water that pours out of a broken pot. Stop it quickly! 
Proverbs17:15 If a judge says that a guilty person is not guilty, the Lord hates it. If a judge punishes someone who is not guilty, the Lord hates that too." 
Proverbs17:16 Money does not help a foolish person, because he does not want to become wise." 
Proverbs17:17 A friend will always show that he loves you. Relatives are there to help you when you are in trouble. 
Proverbs17:18 Only a stupid person promises to pay someone else's debts, even if he is a friend or a neighbour." 
Proverbs17:19 Someone who loves to argue loves sin. Someone who boasts causes trouble for himself. 
Proverbs17:20 Anyone who thinks about bad things will not do well in life. Anyone who deceives people with lies will have a lot of trouble. 
Proverbs17:21 To have a foolish son makes parents sad. The father of a fool is never happy. 
Proverbs17:22 If you are happy in life, you will be healthy. But if you are sad and upset, your body will be weak." 
Proverbs17:23 Wicked judges secretly accept bribes. Then they are not fair when they judge. 
Proverbs17:24 A person who knows what is right can easily find wisdom. But a foolish person looks everywhere and never finds it. 
Proverbs17:25 To have a foolish son makes his father sad. It makes his mother very upset. 
Proverbs17:26 It is not right to punish a person who has done nothing wrong. It is wrong to beat honest people with sticks. 
Proverbs17:27 A wise person does not talk too much. Anyone who keeps quiet shows that he understands things. 
Proverbs17:28 Even a fool seems to be wise if he keeps quiet. If he keeps his mouth shut, people will think that he is clever." 
Proverbs18:1 People who do not have any friends think only about themselves. They refuse to listen to good advice. 
Proverbs18:2 A fool does not try to understand what is right. He only likes to tell people his own ideas. 
Proverbs18:3 When a wicked person arrives, shame comes with him. And shame causes people to speak against you." 
Proverbs18:4 The words that you speak are like the deep water of the sea. If they are wise words, they are like a cool stream." 
Proverbs18:5 Do not refuse to punish wicked people. That would not be good. Also, do not punish anyone who has not done anything wrong." 
Proverbs18:6 When a fool speaks, he starts an argument. He is asking for someone to beat him with a stick." 
Proverbs18:7 When a fool speaks, he is destroying himself. His own words are a trap that catches him." 
Proverbs18:8 We love to hear other people's secrets. They seem like good food that we can enjoy. 
Proverbs18:9 A lazy person is as bad as someone who destroys things. 
Proverbs18:10 The name of the Lord is like a strong tower. Righteous people can run there, and then they will be safe." 
Proverbs18:11 Rich people think that their money makes them safe, like high, strong walls around a city." 
Proverbs18:12 If you become proud, something will soon destroy you. But if you are humble, you will soon receive honour." 
Proverbs18:13 Listen carefully before you answer. If you answer too quickly, you will be ashamed like a fool." 
Proverbs18:14 When someone is ill, his spirit will keep him strong. But if his spirit has lost hope, he cannot stay strong." 
Proverbs18:15 Wise people are always learning something new. 
Proverbs18:16 A gift will give you a chance to meet new people. Important people may become your friends. 
Proverbs18:17 You will always believe the first person to speak in court, until the other person starts to ask him questions." 
Proverbs18:18 If two powerful people have an argument, you may have to throw dice to decide who is right." 
Proverbs18:19 If you insult a relative, it will be difficult to become friends with him again. Arguments keep people apart, like the walls of a strong city." 
Proverbs18:20 If you speak words that help people, they are like good food." 
Proverbs18:21 Words have the power to bring life or death. So be careful if you talk a lot! 
Proverbs18:22 If you find a wife, you find a good thing. The Lord has given you someone to enjoy." 
Proverbs18:23 A poor person has to ask for help. But a rich person can insult people. 
Proverbs18:24 A man with many friends may lose them. But there is a friend who is more faithful than a brother. 
Proverbs19:1 It is better to be poor and honest, than to be a fool who speaks lies." 
Proverbs19:2 If you want to do something but you do not know how to do it, that is dangerous! If you hurry to do it, you will get into trouble." 
Proverbs19:3 Some people do silly things and so they destroy themselves. Then they get angry with the Lord. 
Proverbs19:4 Rich people can easily find new friends. But poor people will easily lose their friends. 
Proverbs19:5 If you tell lies in court, the judge will certainly punish you. You will not go free!" 
Proverbs19:6 Many people want an important person to like them. Everyone wants to be the friend of someone who gives lots of gifts. 
Proverbs19:7 If someone is poor, all his family hate him. His friends stay away from him. Even if he goes to ask them for help, he cannot find them anywhere." 
Proverbs19:8 If you learn to be wise, it shows that you love yourself. If you understand what is right, you will be successful." 
Proverbs19:9 If you tell lies in court, the judge will certainly punish you. That will be the end of you!" 
Proverbs19:10 Fools should not live like rich people. Even worse, slaves should never have authority over rulers." 
Proverbs19:11 If someone is wise, he controls his anger. When anyone hurts him, he is careful to forget it." 
Proverbs19:12 When the king is angry, he makes people afraid, like a lion that roars. But when he is pleased with you, that is like dew on fresh grass." 
Proverbs19:13 A foolish child will destroy his father. A woman who quarrels with her husband is like rain that never stops. 
Proverbs19:14 Your parents may give you riches and a house to live in. But only the Lord can give you a wise wife. 
Proverbs19:15 A lazy person cannot wake up from sleep. If he does no work, he will always be hungry." 
Proverbs19:16 If you obey God's commands, you will keep your life safe. If you do not respect his teaching, you will die." 
Proverbs19:17 If you are kind to poor people, you are lending money to the Lord. He will pay back the debt to you." 
Proverbs19:18 When your children do wrong things, warn them while you still have the chance. If you do not punish them, you are helping them to go to an early death." 
Proverbs19:19 Anyone who cannot control his anger is always in trouble. If you try to help him once, you will have to do it every time." 
Proverbs19:20 Accept advice and good teaching. Then you will become wise one day. 
Proverbs19:21 You may have lots of ideas about what you want to do. But it is the Lord 's plans that are important. 
Proverbs19:22 We all want other people to show faithful love. It is better to be poor than to deceive other people. 
Proverbs19:23 If you respect and obey the Lord, you will enjoy life. You will have peace in your mind and no trouble will destroy you." 
Proverbs19:24 A lazy person pushes his hand into his bowl of food. But then he is too lazy to lift his hand up to his mouth. 
Proverbs19:25 If you beat a proud fool, a silly person may learn to be careful. If you warn a wise person, he himself will learn a lesson." 
Proverbs19:26 Anyone who robs his father or chases away his mother is a bad son who brings shame to his family. 
Proverbs19:27 My child, never stop learning about what is right. If you stop learning, you will soon forget what you already know." 
Proverbs19:28 If someone tells lies in court, he is laughing at justice. Evil things are food that wicked people love to eat." 
Proverbs19:29 People who laugh at what is right will receive their punishment. Fools will be beaten, as they deserve." 
Proverbs20:1 If you drink too much wine or strong drink, you do stupid things and you fight. It is not wise to become drunk." 
Proverbs20:2 When the king is angry, he is as dangerous as a lion that roars. If you make him angry, you will lose your life." 
Proverbs20:3 If you keep away from arguments, you will receive honour. Only fools love to quarrel." 
Proverbs20:4 A lazy farmer does not plough his fields in winter. As a result, he has nothing to eat when harvest time arrives." 
Proverbs20:5 A person's thoughts are like deep waters. But a wise person can bring them into the open. 
Proverbs20:6 Many people say that you can trust them. But it is difficult to find a truly faithful person. 
Proverbs20:7 Righteous people live in an honest way. Their children will also be happy. 
Proverbs20:8 When a king sits on his throne as judge, he sees what is evil and he removes it." 
Proverbs20:9 Nobody can say, ‘My thoughts are completely pure. There is no sin in me.’" 
Proverbs20:10 If people use false weights and measures, the Lord hates anything like that." 
Proverbs20:11 Even children show what they are like by the things that they do. You can see if they are honest and good. 
Proverbs20:12 The Lord has made us with ears to hear with and eyes to see with. They are both his gift to us. 
Proverbs20:13 If you love to sleep too much, you will become poor. Keep awake so that you have food on the table!" 
Proverbs20:14 When somebody is buying something, he says, ‘It is worth nothing!’ But later he boasts about the cheap price!" 
Proverbs20:15 Words that help you to learn things are very valuable. They are more valuable than gold or jewels. 
Proverbs20:16 If someone promises to pay the debts of a stranger, take his coat as a guarantee that he will pay." 
Proverbs20:17 If you cheat someone to get food to eat, it may seem good when you taste it. But soon it will be like sand in your mouth." 
Proverbs20:18 Things will go well if you receive good advice. If you want to fight a war, ask wise people to be your advisors." 
Proverbs20:19 Keep away from people who talk too much. They will tell everybody about your secrets. 
Proverbs20:20 If you insult your parents, your life will quickly finish. It will be like a lamp that suddenly goes out and leaves you in complete darkness." 
Proverbs20:21 If you receive riches too early in life, it will do you no good in the end." 
Proverbs20:22 Do not say, ‘I will pay you back for the evil thing you did to me.’ Trust the Lord to make it right for you." 
Proverbs20:23 The Lord hates traders who use false weights. He hates scales that do not weigh things properly. 
Proverbs20:24 The Lord chooses the way that we take through life. We cannot understand what will happen to us. 
Proverbs20:25 Do not be too quick to promise to give something to God. If you want to change your mind, you have made a trap for yourself." 
Proverbs20:26 A wise king can pick out wicked people, and he will punish them as they deserve." 
Proverbs20:27 The Lord makes our human spirit like his lamp inside us. It shows us what we are really like. 
Proverbs20:28 A king should rule with faithful love and truth. If he is honest and fair, he will continue to rule." 
Proverbs20:29 Young men boast about their strength. Old men are proud of their beautiful grey hair. 
Proverbs20:30 Painful punishment stops you from doing evil things. It makes you change to a better way of life. 
Proverbs21:1 The Lord controls the things that a king decides to do. He can change the king's thoughts, like the direction of water in a stream." 
Proverbs21:2 People think that everything they do is right, but the Lord knows exactly why they are doing it." 
Proverbs21:3 If you do what is right and fair, it pleases the Lord more than sacrifices." 
Proverbs21:4 Wicked people are proud and they boast. Sin is their guide through life. 
Proverbs21:5 A careful person makes good plans and he has everything that he needs. But anyone who works in a hurry will soon become poor. 
Proverbs21:6 If you deceive people to become rich, it will soon all disappear. It will lead you to an early death." 
Proverbs21:7 When wicked people do violent things, it destroys them. They refuse to do what is right." 
Proverbs21:8 Guilty people are always going the wrong way. Good people keep on the right way. 
Proverbs21:9 It is better to live on the roof of your house than to live with a wife who always argues. 
Proverbs21:10 Evil things are the food that wicked people eat to live. They are not kind to anyone, even their friends." 
Proverbs21:11 When a proud person receives punishment, silly people become wise. When you teach a wise person, he learns more knowledge." 
Proverbs21:12 The Righteous One knows what happens in the homes of wicked people. He punishes them as they deserve. 
Proverbs21:13 If you refuse to listen when poor people ask for help, you too will receive no help when you need it." 
Proverbs21:14 If someone is angry with you, give him a gift secretly. A secret bribe will make him quiet, even if he is very angry." 
Proverbs21:15 When there is justice, righteous people are happy, but wicked people are afraid." 
Proverbs21:16 If someone decides to turn away from wisdom, he will soon be in his grave." 
Proverbs21:17 Anyone who loves only pleasure will become poor. People who love wine and big feasts will never become rich. 
Proverbs21:18 When trouble comes, wicked people receive the pain instead of righteous people." 
Proverbs21:19 It is better to live alone in a desert than to live with a wife who quarrels and complains. 
Proverbs21:20 Wise people store valuable things and good food in their houses. But foolish people waste everything immediately. 
Proverbs21:21 If you are kind and faithful, you will live a long life! Other people will respect you and they will be kind to you." 
Proverbs21:22 A wise person can win against a city that is full of strong men. He can destroy the strong place that they trust to keep them safe. 
Proverbs21:23 If you want to keep away from trouble, always be careful about what you say." 
Proverbs21:24 If you are proud, people will call you ‘Boaster’, because you think that you are better than all other people." 
Proverbs21:25 Lazy people want many things but they refuse to work, so they are killing themselves." 
Proverbs21:26 They think only about more things that they want for themselves. But righteous people are happy to give their things to other people. 
Proverbs21:27 The Lord hates it when wicked people offer sacrifices to him. He hates it even more when they do it with an evil purpose. 
Proverbs21:28 Anyone who tells lies in court will come to nothing. But if someone listens to the truth, his report will remain for ever." 
Proverbs21:29 Wicked people do not show what they are really thinking. But righteous people think carefully about what they are doing. 
Proverbs21:30 There is no wisdom, no knowledge and no advice that can win against the Lord." 
Proverbs21:31 You can prepare your horses to fight in a battle, but only the Lord can help you to win." 
Proverbs22:1 It is better to receive honour from people than to be very rich. If people respect you, that is better than silver or gold." 
Proverbs22:2 This is true about rich people and poor people: The Lord created them all. 
Proverbs22:3 A careful person can see danger and he will hide himself. But a silly person never stops, and he walks into trouble." 
Proverbs22:4 You should be humble. You should respect and obey the Lord. Then you will receive riches, honour and a long life." 
Proverbs22:5 Wicked people go through a lot of trouble, like thorn bushes and traps in their way. So be careful to keep far away from them." 
Proverbs22:6 If you teach children the right way to live, they will not forget it when they are older." 
Proverbs22:7 Rich people have authority over poor people. People who borrow money have to serve those who lend it to them. 
Proverbs22:8 If you plant evil things, your harvest will be trouble. If you are angry and you hurt people, it will never help you." 
Proverbs22:9 If you are kind to poor people and you share your food with them, God will bless you." 
Proverbs22:10 If someone laughs at what is right, send him away. Then there will be no more arguments, quarrels and insults." 
Proverbs22:11 If you live in a pure way, and you speak kind words, you will have the king as your friend." 
Proverbs22:12 The Lord watches over truth, to keep it safe. But when people tell lies, he makes them useless." 
Proverbs22:13 A lazy person stays in his house. He says, ‘There is a lion outside in the street! If I go out, it will kill me!’" 
Proverbs22:14 The mouth of an adulteress is like a deep hole. If you make the Lord angry, you will fall into it!" 
Proverbs22:15 Children love to do foolish things. To stop them, you must warn them and punish them." 
Proverbs22:16 Someone may be cruel to poor people to make himself rich. Someone else may give gifts to rich people to make them his friends. But both those people will become poor in the end. 
Proverbs22:17 Listen carefully. I will teach you what wise people have said. Think about the things that I am teaching you. 
Proverbs22:18 If you remember these things, you will be happy. Tell them to other people." 
Proverbs22:19 I want you to trust in the Lord. So I will tell you these things today. They are for you. 
Proverbs22:20 I have written down 30 wise thoughts for you. They will teach you what is right, so that you know how to live well." 
Proverbs22:21 You can trust these words because they are true. Then you can give a good answer to the people who sent you to me. 
Proverbs22:22 —1— Do not cheat poor people just because they are poor. Do not attack helpless people in court. 
Proverbs22:23 The Lord will speak on their behalf. He will punish anyone who cheats them. 
Proverbs22:24 —2— Do not become a friend of angry people. Keep away from them. 
Proverbs22:25 You might become angry, like them. Then you would spoil your whole life." 
Proverbs22:26 —3— Do not promise to pay someone else's debt. 
Proverbs22:27 If you cannot pay, they will take away your bed, even while you are sleeping on it!" 
Proverbs22:28 —4— Do not move any stone that shows the border of your land. Your ancestors put it there to stop arguments. 
Proverbs22:29 —5— A worker with special skills may work for a king. He will no longer have to work for ordinary people. 
Proverbs23:1 —6— When you sit down to eat a meal with a ruler, be careful how you eat." 
Proverbs23:2 Even if you enjoy your food, do not eat too much of it." 
Proverbs23:3 Do not want his special food for yourself. He may be trying to deceive you. 
Proverbs23:4 —7— Do not work so hard to become rich that you make yourself ill. Be wise and rest when you need to. 
Proverbs23:5 Your money can disappear very quickly. It may seem to grow wings and then fly far away like an eagle. 
Proverbs23:6 —8— Do not go and eat a meal with someone who hates to spend his money. His food may be good, but do not be greedy for it." 
Proverbs23:7 He says, ‘Eat and drink as much as you want,’ but he does not really mean that. He is thinking about the cost of the food." 
Proverbs23:8 Even if you only eat a little of his food, it will make you sick. All your nice words to him will be useless." 
Proverbs23:9 —9— Do not speak to foolish people. They will think that your wise words are silly. 
Proverbs23:10 —10— Never move a stone that has always shown the border of someone's land. Do not take for yourself the fields of people who have no family to help them. 
Proverbs23:11 God himself will be the relative who helps them. He will speak against you in court. 
Proverbs23:12 —11— Listen carefully to your teacher and study well. Then you will learn knowledge. 
Proverbs23:13 —12— Remember to warn your children when they do something wrong. If you punish them with a stick, you will not kill them." 
Proverbs23:14 Punishment may save them from death. 
Proverbs23:15 —13— My child, if you become wise, I will be happy." 
Proverbs23:16 When I hear you speak true words, it will make me very happy." 
Proverbs23:17 —14— Do not be jealous of sinners. Always respect the Lord and obey him in everything that you do. 
Proverbs23:18 Then you will be happy in future days. What you hope for will surely happen. 
Proverbs23:19 —15— Listen to me, my child. Learn to be wise and to live in a good way." 
Proverbs23:20 Do not be a friend of people who become drunk. Do not be a friend of greedy people who eat too much. 
Proverbs23:21 People who are like that soon become poor. They sleep too much, and their clothes have holes in them." 
Proverbs23:22 —16— Listen to your father. You would not be alive without him. Continue to respect your mother when she becomes old. 
Proverbs23:23 Truth, wisdom, good teaching and knowledge are valuable things. Buy them for yourself. Do not sell them." 
Proverbs23:24 The father of a righteous person will be very happy. He will be proud of a wise child. 
Proverbs23:25 So make your father and your mother proud of you. Do things that will make your mother happy. 
Proverbs23:26 —17— Listen to me carefully, my son. Watch how I live." 
Proverbs23:27 Prostitutes are a dangerous trap for men. Women who are not faithful to their husbands can cause men to fall into danger, like a deep well." 
Proverbs23:28 They are like robbers who wait to attack people. They take more and more men away from their wives. 
Proverbs23:29 —18— People who drink too much wine have many problems. Do you see someone who is in trouble? Someone who is very sad? Someone who argues or complains all the time? Do you see someone with wounds on his body for no reason, or someone with red eyes? Then you are looking at someone who likes to drink wine until late at night. He is someone who likes to try different drinks." 
Proverbs23:30  
Proverbs23:31 So do not even look at that beautiful red wine! Do not think about the pleasure it would give to you. 
Proverbs23:32 In the end, it will bite you, like a snake with its poison." 
Proverbs23:33 Your eyes will see strange things. Your mind will be confused so that you say crazy things. 
Proverbs23:34 You will roll about, like a man who tries to sleep on a ship in a storm." 
Proverbs23:35 You will say, ‘Somebody must have hit me, but I do not remember what happened. I need to wake up soon and have another drink.’" 
Proverbs24:1 —19— Do not be jealous of evil people. Do not try to be friends with them. 
Proverbs24:2 They only think about how to cause trouble. They only speak to be cruel. 
Proverbs24:3 —20— It is wisdom that helps a man to build a house. The house will have a strong foundation if he understands what is right. 
Proverbs24:4 Knowledge will help him to fill its rooms with beautiful and valuable things. 
Proverbs24:5 —21— A wise man is better than a brave soldier. If a man learns knowledge, he will become stronger." 
Proverbs24:6 If you receive good advice before you fight a battle, you will win against your enemy." 
Proverbs24:7 —22— A fool cannot understand wisdom. He has nothing to say when leaders meet. 
Proverbs24:8 —23— If anyone has ideas to do evil things, people will know that he always causes trouble." 
Proverbs24:9 If you decide to do something foolish, that is a sin. People hate anyone who laughs at others." 
Proverbs24:10 —24— If you stop trying in times of trouble, you are really very weak." 
Proverbs24:11 —25— You should rescue people who are in danger of death. 
Proverbs24:12 You may say, ‘We did not know what was happening.’ But God knows your thoughts. He carefully watches your life and he knows what you are doing. He will pay back to you whatever you deserve." 
Proverbs24:13 —26— My child, honey is good for you, so eat it. It is sweet on your tongue when you taste it." 
Proverbs24:14 In the same way, wisdom is also good for you. If you find wisdom, it will help you in life. The things that you hope for in the future will surely happen." 
Proverbs24:15 —27— Do not be like wicked people who attack righteous people. Do not try to rob the homes of honest people. 
Proverbs24:16 If an honest person falls down seven times, he will still stand up again. But when trouble comes to a wicked person, that is the end of him." 
Proverbs24:17 —28— Do not shout with joy when your enemy falls down. Do not be happy when his foot slips. 
Proverbs24:18 The Lord will know what you are thinking, and he will not be happy. He may decide not to punish your enemy." 
Proverbs24:19 —29— Do not have trouble in your mind because of evil people. Do not be jealous of them. 
Proverbs24:20 A wicked person has nothing to hope for in the future. His life will end suddenly. 
Proverbs24:21 —30— My child, respect and obey the Lord, and the king too. Do not be friends with people who turn against them." 
Proverbs24:22 Both the Lord and the king have the power to give strong punishment. In a moment they can destroy people who turn against them. 
Proverbs24:23 These are more things that wise people have said: When you judge people, be fair. It is not good to respect some people more than others." 
Proverbs24:24 A judge must not say to a guilty person, ‘You are not guilty.’ If he does say that, everyone will curse him. People of all nations will say that he is bad." 
Proverbs24:25 When judges decide to punish a guilty person, they will be happy, because God will bless them." 
Proverbs24:26 Somebody who gives you an honest answer is your true friend. 
Proverbs24:27 Finish your work outside and prepare your fields. After that, you can build your house." 
Proverbs24:28 If you do not know what is true, do not speak against your neighbour in court. Do not deceive people with what you say." 
Proverbs24:29 Do not say, ‘I will do to him the same thing that he did to me. I will punish him because of what he did.’" 
Proverbs24:30 I walked past the field of a lazy person. And I walked past the vineyard of a stupid person. 
Proverbs24:31 There were weeds and thorn bushes over all the ground. The wall of stones around the field had fallen down. 
Proverbs24:32 I looked at this and I thought about it carefully. I learned a lesson from the things that I had seen: 
Proverbs24:33 You may say, ‘I will have a short sleep. I will rest quietly for a while.’" 
Proverbs24:34 But while you sleep you will suddenly become poor. You will have nothing, as if someone has robbed you." 
Proverbs25:1 These are more of Solomon's proverbs. Hezekiah's men wrote them down when Hezekiah was king of Judah. 
Proverbs25:2 God hides things because he is great. But great kings can explain things. 
Proverbs25:3 You can never know all the thoughts of a king. They go high above the sky and deep below the earth. 
Proverbs25:4 If you remove dirt from silver, a worker can use it to make a beautiful thing." 
Proverbs25:5 In the same way, you should keep wicked people away from the king. Then he will rule in a right way." 
Proverbs25:6 When you stand in front of the king, do not be proud. Do not stand where the important people stand." 
Proverbs25:7 Then it will be good if the king says to you, ‘Come and sit up here, near me.’ That would be better than if he sends you away while his officers watch." 
Proverbs25:8 If you see something bad happen, do not quickly go and tell a judge. Your neighbour may show that you are wrong. Then you will be ashamed. You will not know what to do." 
Proverbs25:9 If you argue with your neighbour, do not tell his secrets to other people." 
Proverbs25:10 If you do that, everyone will know about it. Then you will be ashamed for your whole life." 
Proverbs25:11 A wise word that you speak at the right time is a beautiful thing. It is like a gold apple on a silver plate. 
Proverbs25:12 When a wise person warns you, that is also a beautiful thing. It is like a gold ear-ring or a gold necklace." 
Proverbs25:13 When a faithful servant takes a message for his master, his master will have peace in his mind. It will keep him cool, like snow in the middle of summer." 
Proverbs25:14 Some people promise things, but they never do anything. Those people are like clouds and wind that do not bring any rain." 
Proverbs25:15 If you are patient, you may make a ruler change his mind. If you speak a quiet word, you can remove a difficult problem." 
Proverbs25:16 When you find honey, never eat more than you need. If you eat too much, you will become very sick." 
Proverbs25:17 Do not visit your neighbour's house too often. He may see you too much and he will start to hate you. 
Proverbs25:18 Some people may tell lies about their neighbour in court. Those people are like dangerous weapons, like sharp swords or arrows." 
Proverbs25:19 If you are in trouble and you trust someone who is not honest, it will not help you. He will be as useless as a bad tooth or a broken leg." 
Proverbs25:20 If you sing to a very sad man to make him happy, it only gives him more pain. It is like you are taking away his coat on a cold day, or you are putting vinegar on his wound." 
Proverbs25:21 If your enemy is hungry, give him something to eat. If he is thirsty, give him some water to drink." 
Proverbs25:22 If you help him, he will become ashamed, and the Lord will bless you with good things." 
Proverbs25:23 When the wind blows from the north, it brings rain. In the same way, when somebody tells secrets, it brings anger." 
Proverbs25:24 It is better to live on the roof of your house than to live with a wife who always argues. 
Proverbs25:25 If you receive good news from a far away country, it is like cool water when you are tired and thirsty." 
Proverbs25:26 If you put dirt in a well, its good water becomes bad. It is the same with a righteous person who agrees to do wicked things." 
Proverbs25:27 It is bad for you to eat too much honey. If you always want people to praise you, it is also bad for you." 
Proverbs25:28 Somebody who cannot control his anger is in danger. He is like a city that no longer has a strong wall round it. 
Proverbs26:1 It is not right to give honour to a fool. It is as silly as snow that falls in summer, or rain that falls at the time of harvest." 
Proverbs26:2 If someone curses you for no reason, it will not stay with you. Their words will be like birds that never stop to rest." 
Proverbs26:3 There are right ways to punish a horse or a donkey. The right way to punish a fool is to beat him with a stick. 
Proverbs26:4 If someone asks you a silly question, do not give him a silly answer. Be careful that you do not become as silly as he is." 
Proverbs26:5 If someone asks you a silly question, give him a silly answer. Then he will know that he is not as wise as he thinks he is." 
Proverbs26:6 If you send a message with a fool, there will be trouble. It would be better to cut off your own feet!" 
Proverbs26:7 A lame person cannot use his legs properly. A fool cannot use a proverb properly. 
Proverbs26:8 If you tie a stone into a sling, it will be a useless weapon. It is also useless to give honour to a fool." 
Proverbs26:9 A fool who speaks a proverb is like a drunk person with a thorn in his finger. He does not know what to do with it. 
Proverbs26:10 A soldier who shoots his arrows everywhere is useless. It is the same if you ask a stupid person to do work for you. 
Proverbs26:11 A sick dog goes back to eat what it could not keep in its stomach. A fool goes back and makes the same mistakes again. 
Proverbs26:12 Some men think that they are already wise. A fool is more likely to learn something than they are. 
Proverbs26:13 A lazy person does not go out of his house. He says, ‘There is a lion outside in the street!’" 
Proverbs26:14 A lazy person turns over in his bed, like a door that continues to open and close." 
Proverbs26:15 A lazy person pushes his hand into his bowl of food. But he is too tired to lift his hand up to his mouth. 
Proverbs26:16 A lazy person thinks that he is very wise. He thinks that he is wiser than seven people who can answer questions well. 
Proverbs26:17 When strangers are arguing, only a fool joins the argument. It would be better if he took hold of a wild dog's ears!" 
Proverbs26:18 A crazy man may shoot sharp arrows to kill people. 
Proverbs26:19 If a person deceives his friend and then laughs about it, he is as bad as that crazy person." 
Proverbs26:20 Without wood, a fire stops burning. When people do not tell their friends' secrets, quarrels stop." 
Proverbs26:21 But when a fire has wood, it continues to burn. When people love to quarrel, there will always be arguments." 
Proverbs26:22 We love to hear other people's secrets. They seem like good food that we can really enjoy. 
Proverbs26:23 When a hypocrite says nice words, that is like a cheap pot with silver paint." 
Proverbs26:24 A hypocrite can say nice things to hide his thoughts, but he is still thinking about ways to hurt people." 
Proverbs26:25 Do not believe him when he speaks kind words. His mind is still full of evil things. 
Proverbs26:26 He may not seem to hate people, but he is telling lies. In a public meeting, everyone will recognize his sins." 
Proverbs26:27 If a man digs a deep hole as a trap, he will fall into it himself. If a man pushes a stone to fall on someone, it will fall back on him." 
Proverbs26:28 If you tell lies, it shows that you hate other people. If you deceive people with sweet words, you will destroy them." 
Proverbs27:1 Do not boast about what you will do tomorrow. You do not know what might happen. 
Proverbs27:2 Let other people praise you. Do not boast about yourself. 
Proverbs27:3 A stone is heavy to carry and sand also weighs a lot. But the silly acts of a fool give more pain than both of those. 
Proverbs27:4 An angry person does cruel things that can destroy people. But a jealous person is much worse. 
Proverbs27:5 When a friend is not afraid to warn you that you are wrong, it shows that he really loves you." 
Proverbs27:6 You can trust a friend when he says things that hurt you. But when an enemy kisses you, he is deceiving you." 
Proverbs27:7 A person who has eaten enough food will refuse honey. But even bitter food seems sweet to a hungry person. 
Proverbs27:8 A person who travels away from his home is like a bird that flies away from its nest. 
Proverbs27:9 Beautiful oil and perfume may give you joy. But good advice from a friend is even better. 
Proverbs27:10 Do not forget your friends or your father's friends. If you are in trouble, do not ask your relatives to help you. A friend who is a neighbour will be more help than a relative who lives far away." 
Proverbs27:11 My son, if you are wise, I will be happy. I will be able to answer anyone who insults me." 
Proverbs27:12 A careful person can see danger, and he will hide himself. But a silly person never stops, and he walks into trouble." 
Proverbs27:13 If someone promises to pay the debts of a stranger, take his coat as a guarantee that he will pay." 
Proverbs27:14 If you shout a blessing to your neighbour too early in the morning, he will think it is no better than a curse." 
Proverbs27:15 A wife who is always arguing with you is as bad as rain that never stops falling. 
Proverbs27:16 Can you catch the wind? Can you hold oil in your hand? No! And you cannot keep that woman quiet. 
Proverbs27:17 People learn from each other, as one iron tool can make another one sharp." 
Proverbs27:18 If you take care of a fig tree, it will give you fruit to eat. If you take care of your master, he will give you honour." 
Proverbs27:19 A man can see his face in a mirror. But his thoughts show what he is really like. 
Proverbs27:20 The deep hole of death always wants more dead people to fill it. In the same way, a person wants to have everything that he sees." 
Proverbs27:21 You need a hot fire to see if silver and gold are pure. In the same way, when people praise you, they can see what you are really like." 
Proverbs27:22 Even if you beat a fool with a big stick, as hard as you beat grain, you will never remove all his silly ideas." 
Proverbs27:23 Always take care of your sheep and your goats, as well as your cows." 
Proverbs27:24 Your riches will not be there for ever. One family does not rule a kingdom for ever. 
Proverbs27:25 One day you will cut the grass in your fields and then new grass will grow. You will store the grass that has grown on the hills. 
Proverbs27:26 Then you will use the wool from your sheep to make clothes. You will sell your goats, and you will buy a field." 
Proverbs27:27 You will have enough milk from your goats to feed yourself, your family and your female servants." 
Proverbs28:1 A wicked person runs away even when nobody is chasing him. But a righteous person is as brave as a lion. 
Proverbs28:2 When the people in a country refuse to obey the law, they will have many rulers. But if a country has a wise ruler who understands what is right, it will continue to be strong." 
Proverbs28:3 A poor person who is cruel to helpless people is like a storm that destroys crops. 
Proverbs28:4 People who do not obey the law praise wicked people. But people who obey the law speak against wicked people. 
Proverbs28:5 Evil people do not understand justice. But people who serve the Lord understand all about it. 
Proverbs28:6 It is better to be poor and live in an honest way than to be a rich hypocrite. 
Proverbs28:7 If you obey the law, you are a wise child. But if you make friends with greedy people, you will make your parents ashamed." 
Proverbs28:8 If you make people pay more when you lend money to them, you may become rich. But someone else will enjoy your riches. They will go to someone who is kind to poor people." 
Proverbs28:9 If you refuse to listen to God's law, God will refuse to listen to your prayers." 
Proverbs28:10 If you cause a good person to do evil things, your own evil trap will catch you. But people who do nothing wrong will receive good things." 
Proverbs28:11 A rich person thinks that he knows everything. But a poor person who understands people knows what he is really like. 
Proverbs28:12 When righteous people have power, everybody is happy. But when wicked people have power, good people run away to hide." 
Proverbs28:13 Anyone who hides his sins will never do well. But God will forgive somebody, if he agrees that he has done wrong things, and if he turns away from his sins." 
Proverbs28:14 If you are afraid to do wrong things, God will bless you. But trouble will happen to anyone who refuses to obey." 
Proverbs28:15 A wicked ruler brings danger to poor people. He is as dangerous as an angry lion or a hungry bear. 
Proverbs28:16 If a ruler is cruel, it shows that he is not wise. But a ruler who refuses bribes will rule for a long time." 
Proverbs28:17 Someone who is guilty of murder will be running until he dies. Nobody should help him to escape. 
Proverbs28:18 If you live in an honest way, you will be safe. But hypocrites will suddenly fall into trouble." 
Proverbs28:19 A farmer who works hard will have plenty of food to eat. But anyone who works only on useless things will always be poor. 
Proverbs28:20 A faithful person will receive many blessings. But anyone who hurries to become rich will only receive punishment. 
Proverbs28:21 When you judge people, you must always be fair. That is the right thing to do. But even a small bribe can make some people do the wrong thing." 
Proverbs28:22 Greedy people hurry to become rich. They do not know that they will soon be poor. 
Proverbs28:23 If you warn someone that he has done a wrong thing, he will thank you in the end. He will like you more than if you only say sweet words to him." 
Proverbs28:24 If anyone cheats his parents, he may say that he has done nothing wrong. But a person like that is as bad as a robber." 
Proverbs28:25 Greedy people cause a lot of trouble. But someone who trusts the Lord will enjoy many good things. 
Proverbs28:26 If you trust your own thoughts, you are a fool. But if you live in a wise way, you will be safe from danger." 
Proverbs28:27 If you give things to poor people, you will still have enough for yourself. But everyone will curse you if you refuse to help poor people." 
Proverbs28:28 When wicked people become powerful, everyone runs away to hide. But when wicked people lose their power, righteous people do well again." 
Proverbs29:1 You may warn a proud person many times, but he will not listen to you. Trouble will suddenly happen to him and he will not escape." 
Proverbs29:2 When righteous people are doing well, everyone is happy. But when wicked people rule, everyone is sad." 
Proverbs29:3 A man who loves wisdom makes his father happy. But anyone who is a friend of prostitutes is wasting his father's money. 
Proverbs29:4 A king who rules with justice makes his country strong. But a king who takes lots of taxes destroys his country. 
Proverbs29:5 If you always praise your friends with sweet words, that will be a trap that you walk into yourself." 
Proverbs29:6 The sin of an evil person becomes a trap that catches him. But a righteous person sings with joy. 
Proverbs29:7 Righteous people want poor people to receive justice. But wicked people do not understand things like that. 
Proverbs29:8 People who insult their friends bring trouble to a city. But wise people stop arguments. 
Proverbs29:9 If a wise person accuses a foolish person in court, there will be no agreement. The fool will only laugh or he will become angry." 
Proverbs29:10 Murderers hate honest people. They try to kill any good person. 
Proverbs29:11 Foolish people cannot control their anger. But wise people are patient. 
Proverbs29:12 When a ruler listens to lies, all his officers will be wicked." 
Proverbs29:13 The Lord gives light to all people so that they can see. He does that for poor people and also for those who are cruel to them. 
Proverbs29:14 If a king judges poor people in a true way, he will always have the power to rule." 
Proverbs29:15 If you want your children to be wise, warn them and punish them when they do wrong things. If you let them do anything that they want to do, they will make their mother ashamed." 
Proverbs29:16 When wicked people receive more power, there is also more sin. But those wicked people will fall while righteous people watch." 
Proverbs29:17 Warn your children when they do wrong things, so that you have peace in your mind. They will make you very happy." 
Proverbs29:18 If people do not hear God's message, there is no law to control them. But if someone obeys God's law, he is in a happy place." 
Proverbs29:19 You must use more than words to show a servant what is right. Even if he understands what you say, he will not obey you." 
Proverbs29:20 Do you know anyone who speaks before he thinks? A foolish person is more likely to become wise than that person. 
Proverbs29:21 You may always give a servant everything that he wants. But if you do that, he will be useless in the end." 
Proverbs29:22 An angry person causes arguments. When he is angry, he causes many sins to happen." 
Proverbs29:23 A person's pride will bring shame to him. But a humble person will receive honour. 
Proverbs29:24 If you help a robber, you are bringing punishment on yourself. If you tell the truth in court, or if you keep quiet, you will receive your punishment." 
Proverbs29:25 If you are afraid of what people think about you, you will never feel safe. But if you trust in the Lord, he will keep you safe." 
Proverbs29:26 Many people want the king to be their friend. But only the Lord can give you true justice. 
Proverbs29:27 Righteous people hate wicked people. Wicked people also hate people who live in a good way. 
Proverbs30:1 These are the words of Jakeh's son, Agur. It is an important message. The man says this to Ithiel: God, I am weak and tired. I cannot continue to stand." 
Proverbs30:2 I feel more stupid than any other person. I do not understand things as other people do. 
Proverbs30:3 I have never learned wisdom. I do not know anything about God, the Holy One." 
Proverbs30:4 No one has gone up to heaven and then come back. No one has held the wind in his hands. No one has tied his coat around the seas. No one has fixed the borders of the earth. If anyone has done this, tell me his name. Tell me his son's name. Tell me, if you know." 
Proverbs30:5 Everything that God says is completely true. If you trust him, he will protect you like a soldier's shield." 
Proverbs30:6 Do not add anything to what God has said. If you do that, he will warn you. He will show that you are someone who tells lies." 
Proverbs30:7 God, I ask you to do two things for me. Please do them before I die:" 
Proverbs30:8 Do not let me ever deceive people with lies. Do not let me be too rich or too poor. Give me only as much food as I need each day. 
Proverbs30:9 If I have more than enough, I might say that I do not know you. I might say, ‘Who is the Lord?’ But if I am poor, I might rob people. That would insult my God's good name." 
Proverbs30:10 Do not say bad things about a servant to his master. If you do, the servant may curse you, and then you will be guilty." 
Proverbs30:11 There are some people who curse their fathers. They do not bless their mothers. 
Proverbs30:12 There are some people who think that they are perfect. But they are still dirty inside. 
Proverbs30:13 There are some people who are very proud. They look down on everyone else. 
Proverbs30:14 There are some people who are very cruel. Their teeth are like swords and sharp knives. They want to eat up all the poor and helpless people, so that they disappear from the earth." 
Proverbs30:15 A greedy leech has two daughters. They are always saying, ‘Give me more!’ There are three things that never have enough for themselves, even four things:" 
Proverbs30:16 The deep hole of death. A wife who has no children. Dry ground that needs rain. A fire that burns strongly. 
Proverbs30:17 Punishment will come to anyone who insults his father, or who refuses to listen to his mother. Wild birds will pick out his eyes and vultures will eat his body." 
Proverbs30:18 There are three things that are too difficult for me to understand, even four things:" 
Proverbs30:19 How an eagle flies high in the sky. How a snake moves across a rock. How a ship sails on the sea. How a man starts to love a young woman. 
Proverbs30:20 A woman who is not faithful to her husband does this: When she has sex with another man, she thinks it is like a meal that she has eaten. Then she washes herself and she says, ‘I have not done anything wrong.’ That is something else that I cannot understand." 
Proverbs30:21 There are three things that make the earth shake, even four things:" 
Proverbs30:22 A slave who becomes a king. A fool who eats too much. 
Proverbs30:23 A woman that nobody loves who marries a husband. A female servant who takes the place of the woman that she has served. 
Proverbs30:24 There are four things that live on the earth which are very small, but they are also very wise:" 
Proverbs30:25 Ants are not very strong, but they prepare their food in the summer." 
Proverbs30:26 Rock badgers are weak animals, but they make their homes among the rocks." 
Proverbs30:27 Locusts have no king to lead them, but they all fly together as one." 
Proverbs30:28 Lizards are easy to catch with your hand, but you will see them in kings' palaces." 
Proverbs30:29 There are three things that seem great as they walk around, even four things:" 
Proverbs30:30 Lions are the strongest of all animals, and they are not afraid of anything." 
Proverbs30:31 Cockerels that shout proudly. Male goats. A king who has his army with him. 
Proverbs30:32 You may be foolish and too proud of yourself. You may have ideas to do evil things. If that is true, stop yourself! Do not say a word!" 
Proverbs30:33 If you beat milk for a long time, it will become butter. If you hit someone's nose, it will bleed. In the same way, if you make people angry, it will cause trouble." 
Proverbs31:1 These are the words that King Lemuel's mother said to him. It is an important message: 
Proverbs31:2 Be careful, my dear son. God answered my prayers when I gave birth to you. Please listen carefully!" 
Proverbs31:3 Do not chase after women and lose your strength. Women like that have destroyed kings. 
Proverbs31:4 Listen, Lemuel. Kings should not drink lots of wine. They should not want strong drink." 
Proverbs31:5 When kings drink alcohol, they forget to obey the law. They take away justice for helpless people." 
Proverbs31:6 Give strong drink to people who are dying. Give wine to people who are very upset. 
Proverbs31:7 Then they can forget how poor they are, or how sad they are." 
Proverbs31:8 Speak on behalf of people who cannot speak for themselves. Help helpless people to receive justice. 
Proverbs31:9 Speak clearly to help them. Judge people in a way that is fair and right. Help poor and helpless people to receive justice. 
Proverbs31:10 How difficult it is to find a wife who is truly wise! She is worth much more than valuable jewels. 
Proverbs31:11 Her husband trusts her to help him. He will have everything that he needs. 
Proverbs31:12 She does good things for him every day of her life. She never tries to hurt him. 
Proverbs31:13 She is happy to work with her own hands to make clothes with wool and linen. 
Proverbs31:14 She brings special food from far away, like a ship that travels across the sea." 
Proverbs31:15 She gets up while it is still night and she prepares food for her family. She also gives some to her female servants. 
Proverbs31:16 She looks carefully at a field, and she decides to buy it. She uses her own money to plant a vineyard." 
Proverbs31:17 She is strong and she always works hard. 
Proverbs31:18 She knows how to make money as she buys and sells things. Even at night, she is still working." 
Proverbs31:19 She knows how to make cloth. 
Proverbs31:20 She gives money to poor and helpless people. 
Proverbs31:21 All her family have warm clothes to wear. She is not afraid when cold weather comes. 
Proverbs31:22 She makes beautiful cloths to cover the beds. Her own clothes are made with valuable linen and purple cloth. 
Proverbs31:23 People in the city respect her husband. He meets with the other leaders at the city's gate. 
Proverbs31:24 She uses linen to make clothes and she sells them. She makes belts to sell to the traders. 
Proverbs31:25 She shows her strength and people respect her. She is not afraid of what will happen in the future. 
Proverbs31:26 When she speaks, she says wise words. She is kind as she teaches people what is right." 
Proverbs31:27 She always works hard and she takes care of her family. 
Proverbs31:28 Her children all agree to thank her. Her husband also praises her. 
Proverbs31:29 He says, ‘Many women are wise and they work well, but you are better than all of them.’" 
Proverbs31:30 A woman may seem to be beautiful, but that can deceive people. Her body will not be beautiful for ever. But a woman who respects the Lord with fear will receive honour." 
Proverbs31:31 Praise her for everything that she has done. Everyone in the city should know about her, and they should praise her as she deserves." 
Ecclesiastes1:1 These are the words of the Teacher, David's son, who ruled as king in Jerusalem." 
Ecclesiastes1:2 The Teacher says, ‘Nothing has a purpose. Nothing that ever happens has a purpose.’" 
Ecclesiastes1:3 People work very hard while they live on the earth. But in the end, what do they receive in return for their work?" 
Ecclesiastes1:4 Old people die and then their children live after them. But the earth continues and it never changes. 
Ecclesiastes1:5 The sun rises in the morning and it disappears in the evening. Then it quickly moves to rise again the next morning. 
Ecclesiastes1:6 The wind blows to the south. Then it turns to the north. It blows in every direction. Then it starts again. 
Ecclesiastes1:7 All rivers pour water into the sea, but the sea does not become full. The water returns to the rivers and it all happens again." 
Ecclesiastes1:8 Everything continues in the same way. There is nothing important to talk about. Nothing that we see is enough to make us happy. There are always more things that we want to hear. 
Ecclesiastes1:9 Things that are happening now will continue to happen in the future. What people have done before other people will do again. There is nothing truly new anywhere on the earth. 
Ecclesiastes1:10 People may say, ‘Look! Here is something new!’ But really it happened long ago, before we were born." 
Ecclesiastes1:11 People do not remember things that happened in the past. In the future, people will not remember what has happened either." 
Ecclesiastes1:12 I, the Teacher, ruled Israel as king in Jerusalem." 
Ecclesiastes1:13 I decided to study everything that happens on the earth. I used wisdom to try to understand these things. I realized that God has given people hard work to do, which causes them to suffer." 
Ecclesiastes1:14 I thought about all the things that people do on the earth. I realized that all these things have no purpose. It is like somebody who tries to catch the wind. 
Ecclesiastes1:15 If someone has bent something, you cannot always make it straight again. You cannot count things, if they are not there." 
Ecclesiastes1:16 I said to myself, ‘Listen! I have become very wise! I am much wiser than any of the kings who ruled in Jerusalem before me. I know a lot more things than they ever did!’" 
Ecclesiastes1:17 So I decided to study how much wisdom and knowledge really help a person. I wanted to learn if it was better than someone who only does foolish things. But this was also useless, like somebody who tries to catch the wind." 
Ecclesiastes1:18 The more wisdom you have, the more you will worry. The more you learn, the more you suffer." 
Ecclesiastes2:1 I said to myself, ‘I will enjoy the good things of life. I will see if that helps me to be happy.’ But I realized that this too had no purpose." 
Ecclesiastes2:2 I said, ‘It is foolish to laugh all the time. If I only try to please myself, it does not really help me.’" 
Ecclesiastes2:3 I thought about wine. If I drink a lot of wine, I thought that might make me happy. I might enjoy foolish things. I used wisdom to think about this. People only live for a short time on the earth. I thought this might be the best way for people to enjoy life." 
Ecclesiastes2:4 I also did a lot of great things for myself. I built houses. I planted vineyards. 
Ecclesiastes2:5 I made gardens and fields of trees. I planted many different kinds of fruit trees in them. 
Ecclesiastes2:6 I made large pools of water. I used the water to help my trees to grow well. 
Ecclesiastes2:7 I bought male slaves and female slaves. Their children became my slaves too. I had many animals, including sheep, goats and cows. I had more animals than any of the rulers in Jerusalem who lived before me." 
Ecclesiastes2:8 I stored a lot of silver and gold for myself. Other kings and rulers paid me with many valuable things. I had men and women who would sing for me. I had many beautiful slave wives to give me as much pleasure as any man could want. 
Ecclesiastes2:9 As a result, I was greater than anyone who had ever lived in Jerusalem before me. And I continued to follow the way of wisdom." 
Ecclesiastes2:10 If I saw something that I wanted I took it for myself. If something would give me pleasure, I did it. So all my work made me very happy. My hard work gave me things to enjoy." 
Ecclesiastes2:11 Then I thought about everything that I had done, and all my hard work. After all that, I realized that none of these things had a purpose. I was like somebody who tries to catch the wind. None of the things on earth have any value." 
Ecclesiastes2:12 Then I decided to think about wisdom. I also thought about foolish ways to live. I thought, ‘The next king will not do any more than I have already done.’" 
Ecclesiastes2:13 I realized that it is better to be wise than foolish. In the same way, the light is better than the dark." 
Ecclesiastes2:14 Wise people can see where they are going. Foolish people walk in the dark. But at the end of their lives, there is no difference. They both die." 
Ecclesiastes2:15 Then I thought, ‘I will also die, as foolish people do. So what value have I received from my great wisdom?’ I said to myself, ‘Wisdom too has no purpose.’" 
Ecclesiastes2:16 People forget about wise people as quickly as they forget about fools. One day, nobody will remember any of them. It is true! As fools all have to die, wise people will also die." 
Ecclesiastes2:17 So I hated life. Everything that happens on the earth only brings me trouble. Nothing has any purpose. It is as useless as somebody who tries to catch the wind. 
Ecclesiastes2:18 I thought about all the hard work that I have done here on the earth. When I die, all the things that I worked so hard to get will belong to the next king. So I hated all my hard work." 
Ecclesiastes2:19 The next king may be a wise man, or he may be a foolish man. Nobody knows! But all the things that I used my wisdom and hard work to get will belong to him. All this has no purpose." 
Ecclesiastes2:20 So I was very upset when I thought about all my hard work on the earth. 
Ecclesiastes2:21 Some people are very wise and clever. They use their knowledge to provide good things for themselves. But after they die, someone else will have all their things. Their good things will belong to someone who did not have to work to get them. This also has no purpose. It only brings trouble." 
Ecclesiastes2:22 People have to do a lot of hard work on this earth and it causes them to worry. But in the end, they have nothing." 
Ecclesiastes2:23 Every day, their work causes their bodies to suffer. At night, their minds do not have any rest. All this has no purpose." 
Ecclesiastes2:24 So I decided what is best for us to do. We should be happy to eat and to drink. And we should enjoy our work. I realized that all these things are gifts from God. 
Ecclesiastes2:25 Without God's help, nobody can eat anything or enjoy anything." 
Ecclesiastes2:26 God gives wisdom, knowledge and joy to people who please him. Wicked people may work hard and become rich. But God takes away their valuable things and he gives them to someone who pleases him. So their hard work has no purpose. It is like somebody who tries to catch the wind." 
Ecclesiastes3:1 There is a right time for everything. Everything that we do on the earth has a proper time. 
Ecclesiastes3:2 There is a time to be born, and there is a time to die. There is a time to plant seeds. There is a time to pull the plants out of the ground." 
Ecclesiastes3:3 There is a time to kill people. There is a time to make people well. There is a time to destroy things. There is a time to build things. 
Ecclesiastes3:4 There is a time to weep. There is a time to laugh. There is a time to be sad. There is a time to dance. 
Ecclesiastes3:5 There is a time to throw stones away. There is a time to pick them up and use them. There is a time to hug people. There is a time to turn away from people. 
Ecclesiastes3:6 There is a time to look for things that you have lost. There is a time to accept that you have lost them. There is a time to keep things. There is a time to throw things away. 
Ecclesiastes3:7 There is a time to tear our clothes. There is a time to mend them. There is a time to say nothing. There is a time to speak. 
Ecclesiastes3:8 There is a time to love. There is a time to hate. There is a time for war. There is a time for peace. 
Ecclesiastes3:9 People work very hard, but what do they receive in return?" 
Ecclesiastes3:10 I have seen the difficult work that God has given people to do. He has caused them to be very busy. 
Ecclesiastes3:11 God has chosen a good time for all things to happen. He has caused people to think about things that will continue for ever. But nobody can completely understand everything that God has done, from the beginning of their lives to the end." 
Ecclesiastes3:12 So I realized that people should be happy. They should enjoy good things as long as they live. There is nothing better for people to do than that. 
Ecclesiastes3:13 People should be happy to eat and to drink. They should enjoy the work that they do. All these things are gifts from God. 
Ecclesiastes3:14 I know that everything that God does continues for ever. Nobody can add anything to it. Nobody can take anything away from it. God does these things so that people will respect his authority. 
Ecclesiastes3:15 Whatever is happening now has happened before. Everything that will happen in the future has already happened. God causes the same things to happen again and again. 
Ecclesiastes3:16 I saw something else that happens on the earth. Judges should choose what is right, but instead they choose what is wicked. They should decide what is fair, but they do evil things." 
Ecclesiastes3:16 I saw something else that happens on the earth. Judges should choose what is right, but instead they choose what is wicked. They should decide what is fair, but they do evil things." 
Ecclesiastes3:17 I said to myself, ‘One day, God will judge everyone, righteous people and wicked people. He has chosen a time for everything. So there is a right time when he will judge people.’" 
Ecclesiastes3:18 I also thought, ‘God wants people to know that they are like animals. That is why he tests us." 
Ecclesiastes3:19 The same thing happens to humans as happens to animals. We all breathe for a time and then we die. Humans are no different to animals. Life has no purpose. 
Ecclesiastes3:20 All living things finally go to the same place. We all come from the dust of the ground. And we all go back to the dust when we die. 
Ecclesiastes3:21 Do the spirits of humans go up into the sky when we die? Do the spirits of animals go down into the ground? Nobody really knows.’ 
Ecclesiastes3:22 So I realized that people should enjoy the work that they do. That is the best thing for us to do. It is what God has provided for us. I think that is best, because nobody can show us what will finally happen to us." 
Ecclesiastes4:1 I saw again all the ways that people are cruel on the earth. I saw some people who were crying because cruel people were hurting them. There was nobody who could help them. Nobody could rescue them from those cruel people. 
Ecclesiastes4:2 I thought about people who are already dead. I decided that they are happier than the people who are still alive. 
Ecclesiastes4:3 But people who have not yet been born are even happier! They have not seen the evil things that happen on the earth. 
Ecclesiastes4:4 I also thought about the clever work that people do. I saw that people work hard because they are jealous of each other. They want to do better than other people. I realized that this has no purpose. It is like somebody who tries to catch the wind. 
Ecclesiastes4:5 Foolish people refuse to work. They sit and they do nothing. So they become hungry and they die. 
Ecclesiastes4:6 It is good to have only a little food and be happy. It is better than too much hard work that gives you a lot of food. That is as useless as somebody who tries to catch the wind. 
Ecclesiastes4:7 I thought about something else on the earth that has no purpose. 
Ecclesiastes4:8 There are people who live alone. They have no friends, children or brothers. They work hard every day. They want to get more riches for themselves. But they are never happy with the things that they have. They should ask themselves, ‘Why am I working so hard? Am I helping anybody? I am not doing things that make me happy.’ Their work has no purpose. It only brings trouble to their lives." 
Ecclesiastes4:9 Two people who work together are better than one person who works alone. They can help each other to work well. 
Ecclesiastes4:10 If one of them falls down, his friend can help him to get up. But it is terrible if you fall down when you are alone. There is nobody who can help you to stand up again." 
Ecclesiastes4:11 Also, if two people sleep together, they help each other to be warm. But if you sleep alone, it is difficult to be warm." 
Ecclesiastes4:12 If you are alone, one person might attack you and hurt you. But two people together can help each other to win the fight. If you use three strings to make a rope, it is difficult for anyone to break it." 
Ecclesiastes4:13 A young man may be very poor. But if he is wise, he is better than a king who is foolish. When the king is old, he may not listen to his friends' advice." 
Ecclesiastes4:14 A young man who is wise may even become king himself one day. He may have been in prison. He may have been born in a poor family in that kingdom. But he may later rule there as king. 
Ecclesiastes4:15 I thought about all the people who live on the earth. I realized that one of them would also become king one day. He would rule instead of the other young man who became king. 
Ecclesiastes4:16 Large crowds of people give him honour as their king. But in future years, nobody will praise him. I realized that this has no purpose. It is like somebody who tries to catch the wind." 
Ecclesiastes5:1 When you go to God's temple, be careful what you do. Listen carefully when you come near to God. Do not offer sacrifices in the way that foolish people do. They do not even know that they are doing something bad." 
Ecclesiastes5:2 You should not speak too soon. Think carefully before you make a promise to God. God is in heaven and you are here on the earth. So do not say too much. 
Ecclesiastes5:3 If you worry about many things, you will have many dreams. If you talk too much, you will say foolish things." 
Ecclesiastes5:4 If you make a promise to God, quickly do what you have promised. God is not pleased with foolish people. So give what you have promised to give." 
Ecclesiastes5:5 It is better not to promise anything than to promise something and then not do it. 
Ecclesiastes5:6 Do not say things that cause you to do something wrong. Do not say to the priest, ‘My promise was a mistake.’ That would make God angry with you. He might destroy everything that you have worked to get for yourself." 
Ecclesiastes5:7 If you dream all the time or if you talk all the time, that has no purpose. Instead, respect God and obey him." 
Ecclesiastes5:8 You may see a place where poor people are suffering. Powerful people may be hurting them. Do not be surprised if you see that. The judges may not be doing what is right and fair. That happens because the government's officers have to obey people who are more important than them. 
Ecclesiastes5:9 All of them take something for themselves from the land. The king himself receives his share of the crops. 
Ecclesiastes5:10 People who love money never have enough. They may get more and more valuable things, but they are never happy. This also has no purpose." 
Ecclesiastes5:11 As a person's money becomes more, there are more people who want a share of it. Money does not help the people who have a lot of it. They see it, but it quickly disappears." 
Ecclesiastes5:12 Someone who has worked hard all day will sleep well at night. That is true even if they have not had much food to eat. But the rich man worries about his riches. So he does not sleep well. 
Ecclesiastes5:13 I have seen another terrible thing that happens on the earth. Some people may store their riches, but it does not help them in a time of trouble." 
Ecclesiastes5:14 Something may happen in the future that causes their money to disappear. After they die, no money remains for their children." 
Ecclesiastes5:15 When people are born, they bring nothing with them. When they die, they take nothing away with them. All their hard work finally leaves them with nothing." 
Ecclesiastes5:16 This is also a terrible thing to happen. People leave this earth with nothing, as they came into it with nothing. All their hard work has been useless, like someone who tries to catch the wind." 
Ecclesiastes5:17 Even if people are rich, they do not enjoy their food. They suffer all through their lives. They are upset, angry and sick." 
Ecclesiastes5:18 But I realized that there is one good thing for people to do. We should be happy to eat and to drink. And we should enjoy the hard work that we do on the earth. That is what God wants us to do during the short time that he has given us on this earth. 
Ecclesiastes5:19 God gives some people a lot of money and valuable things. He helps them to enjoy those things and to be happy with their work. All of this is a gift from God. 
Ecclesiastes5:20 People like that do not think a lot about what has happened in their lives. God helps them to be happy as they are busy with their work. 
Ecclesiastes6:1 I have seen another terrible thing that happens on the earth. It causes people to have a lot of trouble. 
Ecclesiastes6:2 God may give someone lots of money and valuable things. People also respect that person. He has everything that he wants. He has worked hard to get them. But God does not allow him to enjoy those things. Instead, a stranger enjoys all that person's things. This has no purpose. It is a terrible thing to happen to someone." 
Ecclesiastes6:3 Someone may have many children and he may live for a long time. But even if he lives until he is very old, he may not enjoy a good life. After he dies, people may not bury him with honour. His life would be useless. Even a child that is dead at birth is happier than that person. That is what I think." 
Ecclesiastes6:4 The child's birth has no purpose. He immediately goes to a dark place. Nobody ever speaks his name. 
Ecclesiastes6:5 He never sees the light of day. He never knows anything. But he enjoys more rest than that rich person. 
Ecclesiastes6:6 A rich person might live for 2,000 years. But if he never enjoys his riches, it would be better if he died at birth. Remember that after death, we all go into our graves." 
Ecclesiastes6:7 The reason people work so hard is to get food. But they never have enough to eat. 
Ecclesiastes6:8 Does a wise person have a better life than a foolish person? No, he does not! Does it help a poor person if he knows how to live well? No!" 
Ecclesiastes6:9 It is good to enjoy the things that we have. That is better than to want more things all the time. If you always try to get more things, that has no purpose. It is like somebody who tries to catch the wind." 
Ecclesiastes6:10 Everything that is here today already has its name. Everyone knows what we humans are like. It is useless to argue with someone who is more powerful than we are. 
Ecclesiastes6:11 If we talk too much, we will say silly things. So it will not help anyone to talk with many words." 
Ecclesiastes6:12 Nobody knows the best way for us to live our lives. We live for only a few years and our lives seem to have no purpose. Our lives quickly disappear, like a shadow. Nobody can tell us what will happen on the earth after our death." 
Ecclesiastes7:1 If people respect you as a good person, that is better than expensive perfume. The day of your death is better than the day of your birth." 
Ecclesiastes7:2 If you go to a house where there is a funeral, that is better for you than to go to a party. Everyone will die one day. People should think about death while they are still alive." 
Ecclesiastes7:3 If you are sad, that is better for you than to laugh all the time. We learn more about ourselves when we are sad." 
Ecclesiastes7:4 A wise person thinks about funerals and what they mean. A foolish person thinks about how to enjoy a party. 
Ecclesiastes7:5 If a wise person warns you, listen to him. That is better for you than to listen to the songs of a foolish person." 
Ecclesiastes7:6 If you use thorn bushes to make a fire, they make a lot of noise but they burn too quickly. When a foolish person laughs, their noise also has no purpose." 
Ecclesiastes7:7 If a wise person cheats people, he becomes a fool. If you accept a bribe, you will no longer think properly." 
Ecclesiastes7:8 If you finish some work, that is better than to start something new. It is better to be patient than to be proud." 
Ecclesiastes7:9 Control your angry thoughts. Only fools allow their anger to continue. 
Ecclesiastes7:10 Do not say, ‘Everything was a lot better in the past.’ Those are not wise thoughts." 
Ecclesiastes7:11 It is good to have wisdom, like money that you receive from your father. Wisdom helps everyone who lives." 
Ecclesiastes7:12 Both wisdom and money can keep you safe. But wisdom is better. If you are wise, your knowledge can save your life." 
Ecclesiastes7:13 Think about the things that God has done. If God has bent something, nobody can make it straight again." 
Ecclesiastes7:14 If your life is good, you should be happy. But if you have trouble, think about this: God causes both joy and trouble in our lives. We do not know what will happen next." 
Ecclesiastes7:15 In my short life on the earth I have seen these things which have no purpose: Sometimes righteous people may die when they are still young. They did good things, but they died. And sometimes wicked people continue to live for a long time. They did evil things, but they continued to live." 
Ecclesiastes7:16 So do not try to be too good or too wise. That might cause you to have trouble. 
Ecclesiastes7:17 But do not be too wicked. Do not be a fool. That might cause you to die when you are still young. 
Ecclesiastes7:18 Remember both these things. Do not forget either of them. You can do that if you respect God and you obey him. 
Ecclesiastes7:19 Wisdom makes a wise person more powerful than ten rulers in a city. 
Ecclesiastes7:20 There is nobody on the earth who is so righteous that they always do what is right. There is nobody who never does a wrong thing. 
Ecclesiastes7:21 Do not listen to all the things that people say about you. You might hear your servant when he is cursing you! 
Ecclesiastes7:22 Do not forget that you also have often cursed other people. 
Ecclesiastes7:23 I have used wisdom to study all these things. I tried very much to understand everything that happens. But I could not do it. 
Ecclesiastes7:24 People cannot understand these things. The meaning of life is too difficult for anyone to understand. 
Ecclesiastes7:25 I decided to study many things so that I would become wise. I wanted to understand the reason why things happen. I also wanted to know why it is stupid to be wicked, and why it is crazy to do foolish things." 
Ecclesiastes7:26 I learned this: Some women are like a trap that catches animals. Women like that are more dangerous than death. They may pretend to love you. They may hold you in their arms. But really their arms are like chains. They want to catch you, as hunters catch animals. Women like that will easily catch a man who has turned away from God. But a man who pleases God will escape from them." 
Ecclesiastes7:27 This is what I, the Teacher, have learned. I studied everything very carefully. I wanted to know the reason why things happen." 
Ecclesiastes7:28 I continued to try to learn more and more. But I could not find the answers. Among one thousand people, I found one good man. But among them all, I did not find a good woman." 
Ecclesiastes7:29 I did learn this: God made people to do what is right. But people have chosen their own way to do things. 
Ecclesiastes8:1 This is what I know about people who are truly wise. They know how to explain things. Wisdom helps a person to be happy. It causes them to smile even when they have trouble. 
Ecclesiastes8:2 You promised God that you would serve the king faithfully. So obey the king's commands. 
Ecclesiastes8:3 If you are with the king, do not leave in a hurry. Do not join with people who plan to hurt him. Remember that the king can do anything that he wants to do." 
Ecclesiastes8:4 The king's command has complete power. Nobody can tell him that he is wrong. 
Ecclesiastes8:5 Trouble will not come to anyone who obeys the king's command. A wise person knows the right time to do things. He also knows the right way to do them. 
Ecclesiastes8:6 There is a right time for things to happen. There is a right way to do things. But trouble comes to people anyway. 
Ecclesiastes8:7 Nobody knows what will happen in the future. Nobody can tell us about it. 
Ecclesiastes8:8 Nobody has the power to control the wind. Also, nobody has the power to decide the day of their death. Soldiers are not allowed to leave a battle. Also, if people do wicked things, that will not rescue them." 
Ecclesiastes8:9 I saw all these things that happen on the earth. I thought about them a lot. I thought about the things that happen on the earth. I saw that people sometimes use their power to hurt other people. 
Ecclesiastes8:10 I also saw that some wicked people receive honour after their death. Those wicked people had gone in and out of the holy place. People praised them in the city where they had done evil things. This also is difficult to understand. 
Ecclesiastes8:11 People who are guilty should receive their punishment quickly. If that does not happen, other people also want to do evil things." 
Ecclesiastes8:12 People who do lots of wicked things may live for a long time. But if someone respects and obeys God, they will surely enjoy a good life." 
Ecclesiastes8:13 Wicked people will surely not enjoy a good life. Their lives will be like a shadow that quickly disappears. They do not respect God, so they will not live for a long time." 
Ecclesiastes8:14 But this is something else that is difficult to understand: On this earth, sometimes righteous people suffer in the way that wicked people deserve. And sometimes wicked people enjoy the good things that righteous people deserve. I think that this is difficult to understand." 
Ecclesiastes8:15 So I think that we should enjoy our lives. People should be happy to eat, drink and enjoy their lives. That is the best thing for them to do. It will help them to enjoy the work that they do during their lives. That is the life which God has given them on the earth." 
Ecclesiastes8:16 I tried very much to become wise. I wanted to understand the things that people do on the earth. People work in the day and in the night and they do not sleep. 
Ecclesiastes8:17 I thought about everything that God has done. I realized that nobody understands everything that happens on the earth. Even if they try very much, they will not know everything. A wise person may say that he understands all these things. But really that is not possible." 
Ecclesiastes9:1 I thought about all these things so that I could understand them. I realized that God controls what happens to people. That includes righteous people and wise people. God decides the things that they do. Nobody knows what will happen in their lives. Other people may love them, or they may hate them." 
Ecclesiastes9:2 But there is something which happens to everyone. It happens to righteous people and it happens to wicked people. It happens to good people and it happens to bad people. It happens to people who are clean in front of God and it happens to people who are unclean. It happens to people who offer sacrifices to God and it happens to people who do not do that. It happens to good people and to people who turn away from God. It happens to people who make promises to God. It also happens to people who are afraid to do that. 
Ecclesiastes9:3 Finally, the same thing happens to everyone on the earth. That seems to be a terrible thing. People choose to do evil things. While they are alive, they choose to live like fools. And after that, they die." 
Ecclesiastes9:4 Anyone who is alive in the world has some hope for good things in the future. It is better to be a dog that is alive than to be a lion that is dead. 
Ecclesiastes9:5 People who are alive know that they will die one day. But dead people do not know anything. No more good things can happen to them. Nobody remembers them. 
Ecclesiastes9:6 Everything that they did in the world has finished. If they loved people, if they hated people, if they were jealous of people, all that has finished. They no longer have anything to do with the things that happen on the earth." 
Ecclesiastes9:7 So be happy as you eat your food. Be happy as you drink your wine. God is pleased with you as you do these things. 
Ecclesiastes9:8 Always dress yourself well in good clothes. Use as much sweet oil as you need on your head. 
Ecclesiastes9:9 Love your wife and enjoy your life together with her. God has given you your life. It is a short life and it is difficult to understand everything that happens. God wants you to enjoy these things as you do hard work during your life on the earth. 
Ecclesiastes9:10 Use all your strength to do the work that you are doing. One day you will die and you will go into your grave. Then you will not have any work, or ideas, or knowledge or wisdom. So do your work well while you are alive." 
Ecclesiastes9:11 I have seen another thing that happens here on the earth. The runner who runs fastest does not always win the race. The strongest soldiers do not always win the battle. Very wise people do not always have food to eat. Very clever people do not always become rich. People who have learned many things are not always successful. Yes, anything may happen to anyone at any time." 
Ecclesiastes9:12 Nobody knows the time when trouble may come to them. A fish does not know when somebody will catch it in a net. A bird does not know when somebody will catch it in a trap. In the same way, terrible trouble suddenly happens to people when they do not expect it." 
Ecclesiastes9:13 I saw something else that happens on the earth. It is a good example of what wisdom is like. 
Ecclesiastes9:14 There was a small city and only a few people lived in it. A powerful king came to attack that city. His army made their camp around the city. They built heaps of earth all around the city. 
Ecclesiastes9:15 There was a man who lived in the city. He was poor but he was also wise. Because he was wise, he knew how to save the city. But after he saved it, nobody remembered that poor man." 
Ecclesiastes9:16 So I realized that wisdom is better than power. But if you are poor, nobody accepts that you are also wise. People soon forget what you said." 
Ecclesiastes9:17 A wise person speaks quietly. But it is good to listen carefully to him. His words have more value than a king who is shouting to a crowd of fools. 
Ecclesiastes9:18 Wisdom is better than weapons that are used to fight a war. But one bad person can destroy many good things. 
Ecclesiastes10:1 A few dead flies in a bottle of perfume cause it to have a bad smell. In the same way, one foolish thing can destroy a lot of wisdom." 
Ecclesiastes10:2 If you are wise, you know the right way to go. But a fool is stupid and he goes the wrong way." 
Ecclesiastes10:3 Even when fools walk along the road, they show that they are stupid. Everyone can see that they are not wise." 
Ecclesiastes10:4 If your master becomes angry with you, do not leave your place. Be patient and answer him quietly. Then he will forgive your mistakes." 
Ecclesiastes10:5 I have seen another terrible thing that happens on the earth. It happens when a ruler does a silly thing. 
Ecclesiastes10:6 A ruler may give fools too much authority. At the same time, rich people have no authority." 
Ecclesiastes10:7 Slaves ride on horses, as important people do. At the same time, princes have to walk, as slaves do." 
Ecclesiastes10:8 If you dig a deep hole, you might fall into it. If you knock down a wall, a snake might bite you." 
Ecclesiastes10:9 If you cut stones out of the ground, a stone might hurt you. If you cut wood into pieces, a piece of it might hurt you." 
Ecclesiastes10:10 If your axe is not sharp, you will need to be very strong to use it. If you are wise, you will make the axe's edge sharp again. That is how wisdom helps you to do things well." 
Ecclesiastes10:11 Someone may have power over dangerous snakes. But that will not help him if the snake bites him first. 
Ecclesiastes10:12 People respect a wise person, because of the things that he says. But the words of a fool will destroy him." 
Ecclesiastes10:13 When a fool starts to speak, he says silly things. When he finishes, he is saying crazy things that are wicked." 
Ecclesiastes10:14 But he never stops talking. Nobody knows what will happen in the future. Nobody can tell us what will happen after we die. 
Ecclesiastes10:15 When a fool does any work, he quickly becomes tired. He is so tired that he forgets the way to town." 
Ecclesiastes10:16 A country is in terrible trouble if its ruler is young and foolish. If its leaders go to parties all day, a country is in trouble." 
Ecclesiastes10:17 But if a country's ruler belongs to a good family, that country will be a happy place. Its leaders only enjoy parties at the proper time. They control themselves and they do not become drunk." 
Ecclesiastes10:18 If a man is too lazy to work on his house, its roof will fall down. Rain will make his rooms wet." 
Ecclesiastes10:19 Good food and wine help us to laugh and to be happy. But you need to have money to buy everything. 
Ecclesiastes10:20 Do not say bad things about the king. Do not even think about it! Even when you are in your bedroom, do not say bad things about rich people. A little bird might hear you. It might tell people what you have said." 
Ecclesiastes11:1 Freely give your things to other people. If you do that, one day you will receive your things back again." 
Ecclesiastes11:2 Share your things with several other people. You do not know when trouble will come. Then those people can help you. 
Ecclesiastes11:3 When clouds are full of water, rain will fall on the earth. If a tree falls to the ground, it will stay there, in the same place." 
Ecclesiastes11:4 A farmer who waits for the right wind will never plant any seeds. If he is always looking at the clouds, he will never bring in his crops." 
Ecclesiastes11:5 We do not know the path that the wind blows along. Nor do we know how a baby's body grows inside a pregnant woman. So nobody can explain the things that God does. He is the one who has made everything. 
Ecclesiastes11:6 Plant your seeds in the morning, and continue to work until the evening. You do not know which seeds will become strong plants. Perhaps only some of them will grow. Perhaps they will all grow well." 
Ecclesiastes11:7 Light makes people happy. It is good to see the sun rise in the morning. 
Ecclesiastes11:8 People may live for many years, and they should happily enjoy every day. But they should remember that their lives will end in death. There will be many days of trouble ahead. We cannot understand everything that will happen to us in the future." 
Ecclesiastes11:9 Young people, enjoy your life while you are young. Do the things that you think are good. Enjoy the things that you see. But remember that God will judge you for all the things that you do." 
Ecclesiastes11:10 Do not worry about things. Do not let your body cause you to have pain. You will not be young and strong for very long. We all become old too quickly. 
Ecclesiastes12:1 Remember to serve God while you are young. He is the one who made you. Your life will have many troubles in the future. During those years, you will say, ‘I do not enjoy my life any more.’" 
Ecclesiastes12:2 When you are old, the light from the sun will not seem to be bright. You will not see the moon or the stars. There will always be dark clouds after the rain." 
Ecclesiastes12:3 Your arms that have kept you safe will shake. Your legs will become weak. You will have only a few teeth to eat with. Your eyes will no longer see very well. 
Ecclesiastes12:4 Your ears will not hear noises outside in the streets. You will not hear the sound of people as they work. You will not hear the sound of people as they sing songs. But a bird's song will wake you when you want to sleep. 
Ecclesiastes12:5 You will be afraid to stand on high places. You will worry about danger in the streets. When you are old, your hair will become white, like the flowers on an almond tree. You will feel too tired to move yourself, like an old grasshopper. You will not want to have sex. Finally, we will all die and go to our home in the ground. Many people will weep at our funeral." 
Ecclesiastes12:6 Remember to serve God while you are young, because one day your life will finish. It will be like a silver chain that breaks; like a gold bowl that breaks; like a water pot at the well that breaks into pieces; like a rope at the well that breaks apart." 
Ecclesiastes12:7 Our bodies go back into the ground as dust. The breath of our life goes back to God, who gave it to us." 
Ecclesiastes12:8 So I, the Teacher, say, ‘All these things have no purpose. We cannot understand why they happen.’" 
Ecclesiastes12:9 The Teacher was a wise man. He also taught the people to understand things. He studied many proverbs and he wrote them down carefully. 
Ecclesiastes12:10 The Teacher tried to find the right words, so that he could show the true meaning of what he wrote." 
Ecclesiastes12:11 The words of wise people are like sharp sticks that a farmer uses to move his animals along. Their messages are like strong nails in a piece of wood. It is God, our one Shepherd, who gives these messages to us." 
Ecclesiastes12:12 My son, I warn you to be careful about any other teaching. There will always be more and more books to read. If you try to study everything, you will become very weak and tired." 
Ecclesiastes12:13 Now I have heard everything and this is what I have decided: Respect God and obey his commands. That is God's purpose for all people. 
Ecclesiastes12:14 Remember that God will judge everything that we do, to see if it is good or it is bad. He knows even the things that we do secretly." 
SongOfSongs1:1 This is Solomon's most beautiful song. 
SongOfSongs1:2 Please kiss me with your lips! Your love makes me happier than wine does. 
SongOfSongs1:3 You have put perfume on your body. It has a lovely smell. The sound of your name causes pleasure everywhere, like sweet perfume. All the young women love you!" 
SongOfSongs1:4 Take me away with you. Come quickly. I want the king to take me into his rooms. We are very happy! You make us happy. We praise your love, because it is better than wine. I agree! The young women are right to praise you like that." 
SongOfSongs1:5 Young women of Jerusalem, my skin is dark but I am beautiful. My skin is dark, like the tents of Kedar. It is beautiful, like the curtains of King Solomon's tent." 
SongOfSongs1:6 The sun has caused my skin to become dark. Please do not look at me as if I am strange. My brothers were angry with me. They caused me to work outside in the sun. I took care of the vineyards, and I could not take care of my own vineyard, my body." 
SongOfSongs1:7 I love you, my dear one. Tell me where you take your sheep to eat grass. Where will you take them to rest at midday? I do not want to look for you everywhere among the sheep of your friends. They might not understand what I am doing." 
SongOfSongs1:8 You are the most beautiful woman of all. If you do not know where to find me, follow the marks from the feet of my sheep. Take your young goats to eat grass among the tents of the shepherds." 
SongOfSongs1:9 My dear friend, you are very beautiful. You seem to me like a beautiful horse that pulls one of Pharaoh's chariots." 
SongOfSongs1:10 Your face is beautiful with jewels. A necklace makes your neck beautiful too. 
SongOfSongs1:11 We will use gold to make ear rings for you, and we will add pieces of silver." 
SongOfSongs1:12 While the king was eating a meal, the sweet smell of my perfume was in the air." 
SongOfSongs1:13 My lover is like a bag of myrrh that lies between my breasts. 
SongOfSongs1:14 He is like a group of henna flowers that grow in the vineyards at En Gedi. 
SongOfSongs1:15 My dear friend, I see that you are very beautiful! Yes, you are beautiful and your eyes are like doves." 
SongOfSongs1:16 My lover, I see that you are very handsome! Yes, you are lovely! This field of fresh, green grass is our comfortable bed." 
SongOfSongs1:17 The cedar trees above us are the beams of our bedroom. The pine trees cover us like a roof. 
SongOfSongs2:1 I am like a wild flower of Sharon. I am a lily from the valleys. 
SongOfSongs2:2 Among the other young women, my dear friend is like a lily that grows among thorn bushes." 
SongOfSongs2:3 Among the other young men, my lover is like an apple tree that grows among the trees of the forest. I love to sit in his shade. His fruit is sweet when I taste it." 
SongOfSongs2:4 He has taken me to the room for feasts. Everyone can see that he loves me. 
SongOfSongs2:5 I am weak with love. So give me raisins to make me strong. Give me apples to keep me awake. 
SongOfSongs2:6 His left hand is under my head. His right hand brings me near to him. 
SongOfSongs2:7 Promise this to me, young women of Jerusalem: Do not cause our love to wake up. Do not cause it to become too strong until the time is right. The gazelles and the wild deer will know about your promise." 
SongOfSongs2:8 Listen! I hear the voice of my lover! Look! He is coming! He moves quickly across the mountains. He runs across the hills. 
SongOfSongs2:9 My lover is like a gazelle or a young male deer. Look! There he is! He is standing behind our wall. He is looking through the window. He wants to see into the room. 
SongOfSongs2:10 My lover said this to me: ‘My beautiful friend, I love you. Get up now and come with me." 
SongOfSongs2:11 Look! The winter time has finished. The heavy rains have stopped. 
SongOfSongs2:12 Flowers are appearing everywhere. It is now the season to sing happy songs. We can hear the voices of doves around us. 
SongOfSongs2:13 New fruit is growing on the fig trees. There are flowers on the vines, and their sweet smell is in the air. I love you, my beautiful friend. Please get up now and come with me!’" 
SongOfSongs2:14 My dear friend, you are like a dove that is hiding among the rocks. You hide from me in the mountains. Show your face to me because it is lovely. Let me hear your voice because it has a sweet sound." 
SongOfSongs2:15 Catch the foxes for us! Our vines now have flowers and they will soon give us fruit. So catch the little foxes before they destroy our vineyards. 
SongOfSongs2:16 My lover belongs to me, and I belong to him. He moves among the lilies with his sheep." 
SongOfSongs2:17 Turn back to me, my lover. Stay until dawn comes and the shadows have gone, Be like a gazelle or a young male deer that plays among the mountains' rocks." 
SongOfSongs3:1 All night I lay on my bed. I wanted my lover to come to me. I looked for him but he did not appear. 
SongOfSongs3:2 I thought, ‘I will get up now and I will go into the city. I will look everywhere for my lover. I will look in all the streets. I will look in all the market places.’ So I looked for him, but I did not find him." 
SongOfSongs3:3 The city guards found me as they walked in the streets of the city. I asked them, ‘Have you seen the man that I love?’" 
SongOfSongs3:4 Then, as I left them, I found my lover! I hugged him and I would not let him go. I took him to my mother's house. I took him into my mother's bedroom. That is where my life started, inside my mother's body." 
SongOfSongs3:5 Promise this to me, young women of Jerusalem: Do not cause our love to wake up. Do not cause it to become too strong until the time is right. The gazelles and the wild deer will know about your promise." 
SongOfSongs3:6 Who is this who is coming from the desert? It seems that smoke is rising into the air! There is a lovely smell of myrrh and incense. It is the smell of all the spices that a trader sells. 
SongOfSongs3:7 Look! They are carrying King Solomon on a throne! 60 soldiers are travelling with it. They are Israel's bravest soldiers. 
SongOfSongs3:8 All of them have swords. They all know how to fight well. Their swords are ready for them to use. They are ready for any danger that comes in the night. 
SongOfSongs3:9 King Solomon made the throne for himself. He used wood from Lebanon to make it. 
SongOfSongs3:10 He used silver to make the posts for it. He used gold to make its back. Its seat has valuable purple cloth to cover it. The young women of Jerusalem made it beautiful inside, to show their love." 
SongOfSongs3:11 Young women of Zion, come out to see King Solomon! He is wearing his crown. His mother put the crown on him on his wedding day. It was the happiest day of his life!" 
SongOfSongs4:1 My dear friend, how beautiful you are! Yes, you are very beautiful! Your eyes behind your veil are like doves. Your hair is like a group of goats that are coming down from Mount Gilead." 
SongOfSongs4:2 Your teeth are very white like a group of sheep. They are like sheep after someone has cut off their dirty wool and they are coming from the pool of water. Each tooth is one of a pair. Not one of them is alone. 
SongOfSongs4:3 Your lips are like bright red strings. Your mouth is lovely. The sides of your face are beautiful, like the halves of a pomegranate. I see them through your veil." 
SongOfSongs4:4 Your neck is like the great tower of King David. It is round and strong. Your necklace is like the shields of 1,000 brave soldiers that hang from the stones of the tower." 
SongOfSongs4:5 Your breasts are perfect, like two young gazelles that are twins. They feed themselves among the lilies." 
SongOfSongs4:6 I will go to the mountain of myrrh and the hill of frankincense. I will stay among them until the dawn comes and the shadows go away. 
SongOfSongs4:7 You are completely beautiful, my dear friend. Your body is perfect in every way." 
SongOfSongs4:8 Come with me from Lebanon, my bride. Yes, come with me from Lebanon. Come down from the top of Amana, from the top of Senir. Come down from the highest part of Hermon. Come away from those mountains where lions live, and where there are leopards." 
SongOfSongs4:9 I love you so much that I never want to leave you, my sister and my bride. When you looked at me only once and I saw one jewel in your necklace, I knew that I could never leave you." 
SongOfSongs4:10 Your love for me is wonderful, my sister and my bride. I enjoy your love even more than I enjoy wine. Your perfume has a smell that is more lovely than any spice!" 
SongOfSongs4:11 Your lips taste very sweet to me, my bride. They taste like honey that falls from the honeycomb. Milk and honey are under your tongue. The smell of your clothes is like the cedar trees of Lebanon." 
SongOfSongs4:12 My sister and my bride, you are like a garden for me that is locked to other men. You are like a spring or a fountain that other people may not drink water from." 
SongOfSongs4:13 Your body is like a special garden. It is full of pomegranate trees with their sweet fruit. There are wonderful fruits to enjoy. There are also henna and nard. 
SongOfSongs4:14 There are nard, saffron, calamus, cinnamon and many different spices. There are myrrh, aloes and all the best spices." 
SongOfSongs4:15 You are like a spring of water in a garden. You are like a well that has fresh water. The water runs down from Lebanon's mountains. 
SongOfSongs4:16 Wake up, north wind! Come now, south wind! Blow on my garden! Make the sweet smell of its spices move in the air. May my lover come into his garden now! Let him taste its wonderful fruits!" 
SongOfSongs5:1 I have come into my garden, my sister, my bride. I have taken my myrrh with my spice. I have eaten my honeycomb and my honey. I have drunk my wine and my milk. Eat, friends, and drink, you who love each other! Drink until you can drink no more!" 
SongOfSongs5:2 I slept but my mind was awake. Listen! My lover is knocking on my door! He said, ‘Open the door for me, my dear friend. You are my sister, the perfect one that I love. To me you are like a beautiful dove. Dew from the night air covers my head. My hair is very wet.’" 
SongOfSongs5:3 I said, ‘I have taken off my day clothes. I do not want to dress myself again. I have washed my feet. I do not want them to get dirty again.’" 
SongOfSongs5:4 My lover pushed his hand through the hole in the door. My heart began to beat faster because he was near. 
SongOfSongs5:5 I got up to open the door for my lover. My hands were wet with myrrh. Myrrh dropped from my fingers onto the handle of the door. 
SongOfSongs5:6 I opened the door for my lover, but he had already turned away. He had gone! I was very upset that he had gone away. I looked for him but I did not find him. I called to him but he did not answer me." 
SongOfSongs5:7 The city guards found me as they walked in the streets of the city. They beat me and they hurt my body. Those guards on the city walls took away my robe. 
SongOfSongs5:8 Young women of Jerusalem, please find my lover! Promise me to tell him this, if you find him. Tell him that my love for him has made me weak!" 
SongOfSongs5:9 Tell us this, most beautiful of all women. Why do you think that your lover is better than other men? Why must we promise to do this for you?" 
SongOfSongs5:10 My lover is very handsome and healthy. He is the greatest man among 10,000 men." 
SongOfSongs5:11 His head is like very pure gold. The hairs on his head are like waves. They are black like a raven. 
SongOfSongs5:12 His eyes are like doves beside streams of water. They are like doves that someone has washed in milk. They shine like jewels. 
SongOfSongs5:13 The sides of his face are like a garden with spice trees. Their smell is like perfume. His lips are like lilies with myrrh that falls from them. 
SongOfSongs5:14 His arms are like bars of gold with jewels in them. His body shines like bright ivory, with sapphire jewels to make it more beautiful." 
SongOfSongs5:15 His legs are like pillars of beautiful stone. They stand on feet that are like pure gold. He stands tall like the mountains of Lebanon. He is as handsome as its best cedar trees. 
SongOfSongs5:16 The taste of his mouth is very sweet. Everything about him causes me to love him. I say to you, young women of Jerusalem, this is my lover! This is my true friend." 
SongOfSongs6:1 Tell us this, most beautiful of all women. Where has your lover gone? Which way did he go? Tell us, so that we can look for him with you." 
SongOfSongs6:2 My lover has gone down to his garden. He has gone to his garden of spice trees. He has gone there to walk in the gardens and to pick lilies. 
SongOfSongs6:3 My lover belongs to me, and I belong to him. He moves among the lilies with his sheep." 
SongOfSongs6:4 My dear friend, you are as beautiful as Tirzah. You are as lovely as Jerusalem. You are as wonderful as an army that is waving its flags." 
SongOfSongs6:5 Turn your eyes away from me. They give me pleasure that is too strong for me! Your hair is like a group of goats that are coming down from Mount Gilead. 
SongOfSongs6:6 Your teeth are very white like a group of clean sheep that is coming from the pool of water. Each tooth is one of a pair. Not one of them is alone. 
SongOfSongs6:7 The sides of your face are beautiful, like the halves of a pomegranate. I see them through your veil." 
SongOfSongs6:8 A king may have 60 queens. He may have 80 slave wives. He may have many other young women too. There may be too many for him to count! 
SongOfSongs6:9 But there is only one woman that I want. Nobody is like her in any way. She is my perfect one, as lovely as a dove. She is the special daughter of her mother. Her mother loves her best among all her children. The young women saw her and they praised her. The queens and the slave wives also praised her." 
SongOfSongs6:10 They said, ‘She is like the light that appears at dawn. She is as beautiful as the moon. She is as bright as the sun. She is as wonderful as the stars that shine brightly in their places.’" 
SongOfSongs6:11 I went down to the garden of walnut trees. I wanted to see the new plants that were growing in the valley; to see if the vines had new leaves now; to see if the pomegranate trees had flowers. 
SongOfSongs6:12 I became so happy that I did not understand what was happening. I knew that I wanted to be with her. I felt that I was riding with the king's men in their chariots. 
SongOfSongs6:13 Come back, come back, young woman from Shulam! Yes, come back, so that we can look at you again. Why do you want to look at the young woman from Shulam? Do not look at her as if she is dancing the dance of Mahanaim." 
SongOfSongs7:1 Your feet are very beautiful in sandals, my princess! Your round hips are as beautiful as jewels that a clever worker has made." 
SongOfSongs7:2 Your navel is like a round bowl that is always full of good wine. Your stomach is like a round heap of wheat with lilies around the edge. 
SongOfSongs7:3 Your breasts are like two young gazelles that are twins. 
SongOfSongs7:4 Your neck is like an ivory tower. Your eyes shine like the pools in Heshbon that are near the Bath Rabbim gate. Your nose is like the tower of Lebanon that looks towards Damascus. 
SongOfSongs7:5 Your head stands tall on you, like Mount Carmel. Your long hair hangs down like a royal cloth. It is so beautiful that it can make the king its prisoner!" 
SongOfSongs7:6 You are very beautiful, my dear friend, and I love you. You give a lot of pleasure to me." 
SongOfSongs7:7 You stand like a tall palm tree. Your breasts are like bunches of fruit that hang from the tree. 
SongOfSongs7:8 I said, ‘I will climb the palm tree. I will take hold of its fruit.’ For me, your breasts are like bunches of grapes. Your breath is like the sweet smell of apples." 
SongOfSongs7:9 For me, your mouth has the taste of the best wine. May the wine pour out for my lover. May it pour over his lips and his teeth." 
SongOfSongs7:10 I belong to my lover, and he wants to be with me!" 
SongOfSongs7:11 Come with me now, my lover! Let us go and walk through the fields. We can stay in the villages for the night." 
SongOfSongs7:12 We can get up early in the morning and go to the vineyards. We can see if the vines have started to make new leaves. We can see if their flowers have opened. We can see if the pomegranate trees have flowers. When we are there I will give my love to you. 
SongOfSongs7:13 The mandrake plants send out their sweet smell. At our door, there are many good things to eat. I have stored many good things that are both old and new. I have kept them all for you, my lover." 
SongOfSongs8:1 I would like it if you were my brother who drank milk from my mother's breasts! If you were my brother, if I met you outside, I could kiss you. Nobody would think that I was doing something wrong." 
SongOfSongs8:2 I would lead you to my mother's house. She is the one who has taught me. I would give you wine with spices to drink, the juice from my pomegranates." 
SongOfSongs8:3 His left hand is under my head. His right hand brings me near to him. 
SongOfSongs8:4 Promise this to me, young women of Jerusalem: Do not cause our love to wake up. Do not cause it to become too strong until the time is right." 
SongOfSongs8:5 Who is this who is coming from the desert? Her head is on her lover's shoulder. Under the apple tree, I caused your love to wake. That is the place where your mother became pregnant. In that place too, your mother gave birth to you in pain." 
SongOfSongs8:6 Keep me near to you, like a seal over your heart. Keep me like a seal on your arm. Keep me there always, because love is as powerful as death. It keeps hold of people as strongly as the grave does. Love burns like a hot fire. It burns with bright flames." 
SongOfSongs8:7 Even a flood of water cannot stop the flames. Rivers of water cannot carry it away. A man might try to give all his riches to buy a woman's love. But she would refuse to accept what he offers to her. 
SongOfSongs8:8 We have a younger sister. Her breasts have not yet grown. What will we do to help her when it is the time for her to marry? 
SongOfSongs8:9 If she is a wall, we will use silver to build towers on her. But if she is a door, we will use boards of cedar wood to keep the door shut." 
SongOfSongs8:10 I am a wall. My breasts are like strong towers. So my lover is happy when he looks at me. 
SongOfSongs8:11 King Solomon had a vineyard in Baal Hamon. He allowed other people to take care of it. They each paid him 1,000 silver coins for its fruit." 
SongOfSongs8:12 But my own vineyard belongs to me alone. I take care of it myself. You may keep the 1,000 silver coins, Solomon. And I will give 200 silver coins to those who take care of the fruit." 
SongOfSongs8:13 You have been staying in the garden with your friends who are listening to you. Let me too hear your voice! 
SongOfSongs8:14 Come quickly to me now, my lover! Run like a gazelle or a young deer. Come to the mountains that have sweet spices!" 
Isaiah1:1 This is a vision that God showed to Isaiah, the son of Amoz. It was a message about his country, Judah, and the city of Jerusalem. God showed it to Isaiah at the time when Uzziah, then Jotham, then Ahaz and then Hezekiah were kings of Judah." 
Isaiah1:2 Hear the Lord, those who live in heaven! Listen to him, you people on the earth! Listen carefully because the Lord has spoken! He says, ‘I have helped my children to grow. I took care of them but now they have turned against me!" 
Isaiah1:3 An ox knows its master. A donkey knows the place where its master feeds it. But Israel's people do not know me. My people do not understand me.’ 
Isaiah1:4 Oh! Israel, you are a nation of people who do not obey me. The people are guilty of many evil things. Their sins are like a heavy weight on their backs. They are a family of people who do wicked things. They have turned away from the Lord, the Holy God of Israel. They have turned their backs against him." 
Isaiah1:5 You continue to fight against God. Why do you do that? God will continue to punish you. You are weak and you hurt all over. Your mind and your body have great pain. 
Isaiah1:6 From the bottom of your feet to the top of your head, everywhere hurts! There are wounds all over your body that are still bleeding. Nobody has cleaned your wounds or covered them. Nobody has put olive oil on them to make them better." 
Isaiah1:7 Your land has become useless. Fire has destroyed your towns and cities. Foreign people have taken the crops from your fields, while you stood there and watched. Strangers have destroyed everything in your country." 
Isaiah1:8 Jerusalem is now like a hut in a vineyard or in a field of crops. It stands there alone, with its enemies all around it." 
Isaiah1:9 Unless the Lord Almighty had left some of us alive, we would have become like Sodom. We would have been completely destroyed, like Gomorrah." 
Isaiah1:10 Yes, you are like the rulers of Sodom, so listen to the Lord 's message! You are no better than the people in Gomorrah! So listen to what our God is saying to you." 
Isaiah1:11 The Lord says, ‘All your sacrifices are not important to me. I have received too many sacrifices that you have burned as gifts to me. I have received too many sheep and fat animals. I do not want any more blood from bulls, goats and lambs that you have offered to me as sacrifices. They do not give me any pleasure." 
Isaiah1:12 You come to worship me in my temple. But are you doing what I want? Did I ask you to march round the temple yards with all your animals? 
Isaiah1:13 Do not bring any more useless gifts to offer to me! I do not like your incense. You like to have feasts at new moons, or on Sabbath days. But because of your sins, I hate all your holy meetings." 
Isaiah1:14 I hate your new moon feasts and your holy meetings. They have become like a heavy load for me. I cannot carry it any longer! 
Isaiah1:15 When you lift up your hands to pray to me, I have to look away. Even if you pray very many times to me, I do not listen to you, because your hands are full of blood." 
Isaiah1:16 Wash yourselves and make yourselves clean! Remove your sins, so that I no longer see them. Stop doing evil things!" 
Isaiah1:17 Instead, learn to do what is right. Be honest and fair in what you do. Help people who are in pain. Make sure that widows and children who have no family receive justice.’" 
Isaiah1:18 The Lord says, ‘Please come, so that we talk about this together. Even if your sins are like a red stain, they will become as white as snow. Even if they are bright red, they will become like white wool." 
Isaiah1:19 I will forgive you if you agree to obey me. If you are ready to do that, you will again eat plenty of good food from the land." 
Isaiah1:20 But if you refuse to obey me and you turn against me, you will die in war.’ That is what the Lord himself has said." 
Isaiah1:21 Oh! Jerusalem! Once you loved the Lord, as a wife loves her husband. But now you have become like a prostitute! At one time, the city was full of justice, and honest people lived there. But now the city is full of murderers!" 
Isaiah1:22 Your pure silver has become dirt. You have mixed water with your best wine. 
Isaiah1:23 Your rulers have turned against God. They are friends of robbers. They all accept bribes and they love to receive gifts. But they do not help widows or children who have no family. They do not make sure that they receive justice. 
Isaiah1:24 So the Lord says this. He is the Lord Almighty, Israel's Mighty One. He says, ‘Oh! I will punish my enemies as they deserve. I will pay them back!" 
Isaiah1:25 I will turn against you, Jerusalem. I will make you pure again. But you will be like metal that burns in a very hot fire to remove all the dirt." 
Isaiah1:26 Then I will again give you honest judges, as you had a long time ago. I will also give you wise officers, as you had before. After that, you will be called “The Righteous City” and “The Faithful City”.’" 
Isaiah1:27 God will use justice to make Zion free. He will do what is right for those who return to serve him. 
Isaiah1:28 But he will destroy people who turn against him, and those who continue to do wrong things. People who no longer trust the Lord will live no more." 
Isaiah1:29 You will become ashamed because you trusted special oak trees to help you. You worshipped idols in your special gardens, and you will be ashamed because of that." 
Isaiah1:30 You will be like an oak tree with leaves that have become dry. You will be like a garden that has no water. 
Isaiah1:31 Even your most powerful men will disappear. They will be like a piece of string that burns in a fire. Their sins will be the fire that destroys them. They and their sins will burn together, and nobody will put out the fire." 
Isaiah2:1 This is the message that appeared to Amoz's son, Isaiah, about Judah and Jerusalem." 
Isaiah2:2 In the last days, the mountain of the Lord 's temple will be great. It will stand higher than all other mountains. It will stand above all the hills. Crowds of people from all nations will go there all the time." 
Isaiah2:3 As they come, people from many nations will say, ‘Come! We will go up to the mountain of the Lord, Jacob's God. We will go to worship him at his temple. He will teach us his laws. Then we can live in a way that pleases him.’ Zion will be the place where people learn about God. The Lord 's message will go out from Jerusalem." 
Isaiah2:4 The Lord will judge between many different nations. When they argue together, he will decide who is right. They will take their swords and they will make them into ploughs. Their spears will become knives to cut their vines. Nations will no longer need weapons to attack other nations. They will not prepare to fight wars any more." 
Isaiah2:5 Jacob's family, come now! We need to live in the light that the Lord gives to us." 
Isaiah2:6 Lord, you have gone away from your people. They are Jacob's descendants. They are full of ideas from countries in the east. They use magic to learn about future times, as the Philistines do. They make agreements with foreign people." 
Isaiah2:7 They are very rich and their land is full of silver and gold. They have many horses, and more chariots than you can count." 
Isaiah2:8 But their land is also full of useless idols. They worship things that they have made with their own hands. 
Isaiah2:9 People bend down low in front of their idols. They even lie flat on the ground! Lord, do not forgive them!" 
Isaiah2:10 Go up to the rocks in the hills! Find a hole in the ground where you can hide! Hide from the Lord 's great power, because he is coming to punish you! He rules with great authority!" 
Isaiah2:11 The Lord will bring proud people down low. People who boast will have to stop. On that day, people will see that only the Lord is great." 
Isaiah2:12 Yes! The Lord Almighty will choose his great day. On that day, he will judge all the proud people who think that they are great. He will bring them all down very low." 
Isaiah2:13 The Lord will cut down the great cedar trees in Lebanon, and the oak trees in Bashan." 
Isaiah2:14 He will bring down the high mountains and the highest hills. 
Isaiah2:15 He will knock down all the strong towers and walls. 
Isaiah2:16 He will destroy the great ships that travel across the seas, and all the beautiful boats." 
Isaiah2:17 Like that, the Lord will bring proud people down low. People who boast will have to stop. On that day, people will see that only the Lord is great." 
Isaiah2:18 All the useless idols will be there no more. 
Isaiah2:19 People will run away to the caves in the hills. They will try to hide in holes in the ground. They will try to escape from the great power of the Lord, when he comes to judge everyone. They will see that he rules with great authority. People will be very afraid when he comes to punish the people on earth." 
Isaiah2:20 At that time, people will throw away their silver idols and their gold idols. They made those idols so that they could worship them. But now they will throw them into caves where rats and bats live." 
Isaiah2:21 The people themselves will look for caves and holes in the rocks where they can hide. They will try to escape from the Lord 's punishment. They will see that he rules with great authority. They will be afraid when he comes to judge the people on earth. 
Isaiah2:22 Do not trust people to help you. They are weak and they will all die one day. They are not strong enough to help you. 
Isaiah3:1 Listen to this! I will show you what the Lord, the Almighty Lord, will do. He will remove from Jerusalem and Judah everything that people trust to help them. He will take away even their food and their water." 
Isaiah3:2 He will take away the brave men and the soldiers, the judges and the prophets, their leaders and the people who have visions of future things," 
Isaiah3:3 the army officers and the city officers, the wise advisors, and those who use magic to do clever things." 
Isaiah3:4 The Lord says, ‘I will cause boys to become their leaders who will rule them badly." 
Isaiah3:5 People will be cruel to each other. Men will argue against one another and neighbours will fight each other. Young people will insult older people. And useless people will speak against people that they should respect. 
Isaiah3:6 A man will go to his father's house and he will take hold of his brother. The man will say to him, “Look, you have a coat. So you should be our leader! You can rule over the few buildings that remain in our city!”" 
Isaiah3:7 But the brother will refuse. He will say, “I cannot make things any better! There is no food or clothes in my house. Do not choose me as a leader of the people.” ’" 
Isaiah3:8 Jerusalem is falling down! The towns of Judah are in trouble! The Lord hates the things that their people say and the things that they do. They have turned against the Lord and they insult him. 
Isaiah3:9 Their proud faces show that they are guilty. Their sins are as bad as the sins of Sodom's people. And they do not try to hide it! It will be very bad for them! They have caused great trouble for themselves. 
Isaiah3:10 Tell the righteous people that they are in a good place. They will enjoy the results of the good things that they have done. 
Isaiah3:11 But it will be very bad for the wicked people. They will receive the punishment that they deserve. 
Isaiah3:12 Now children are cruel to my people and women rule over them. My people, your leaders lead you in the wrong direction. They cannot show you what is right." 
Isaiah3:13 The Lord stands up to judge his people. He will decide how to punish them. 
Isaiah3:14 He comes to judge the leaders and rulers of his people. He says to them, ‘You have destroyed my vineyard. You have robbed the poor people and you have stored their things in your own houses." 
Isaiah3:15 What are you leaders doing? You should not hurt my people. You should not be cruel to the poor people, as if you are pushing their faces into the dirt.’ The Lord Almighty has said this." 
Isaiah3:16 The Lord says, ‘ Zion's women are very proud. They walk with their heads up high. They turn their eyes towards the men and they have no shame. They like the men to look at them. They walk with small steps so that the rings on their ankles make a nice sound." 
Isaiah3:17 Because of that, the Lord God will give them sores on their heads. Those beautiful women will be bald!’" 
Isaiah3:18 On that day, the Lord God will take away the beautiful rings that they wear on their ankles. He will remove all the valuable rings and bright stones that they wear on their heads, their necks, their ears, their arms, their fingers and their noses. He will take away their beautiful clothes, their belts, their perfumes and their magic rings." 
Isaiah3:19  
Isaiah3:20  
Isaiah3:21  
Isaiah3:22  
Isaiah3:23  
Isaiah3:24 Instead of a nice smell of perfume, there will be a smell of dead animals. Instead of a beautiful belt, they will tie a rope round themselves. Instead of lovely hair, they will be bald. They will wear rough sackcloth instead of beautiful dresses. They will have the mark of a prisoner on their skin, instead of beauty." 
Isaiah3:25 The men of your city will die in war. Yes, your strong brave men will die in battle." 
Isaiah3:26 The city's gates will see all this and they will weep! The city will be empty. Zion will be like a poor woman who sits on the ground, completely alone." 
Isaiah4:1 In that day, seven women will catch one man and they will hold him. They will say, ‘Please take away our shame. We will buy our own food and we will wear our own clothes. But please, let us belong to you.’" 
Isaiah4:2 In that day, the branch of the Lord will be great and beautiful. The land will give fruit and crops. Those people who remain in Israel will be proud and happy because of the food that the land supplies." 
Isaiah4:3 Everyone who remains in Zion and Jerusalem will be called holy. All their names will be on a list of Jerusalem's people who live there. 
Isaiah4:4 At that time, the Lord God will wash away the dirt from Zion's women. He will make Jerusalem clean from the blood that murderers have left. He will do that as judge, and he will punish people as with fire." 
Isaiah4:5 The Lord himself will be above all of Mount Zion, and over all the people who meet together there. There will be cloud and smoke over them during the day. There will be bright flames of fire at night. The Lord 's glory will cover over them all." 
Isaiah4:6 During the day, it will give people shade from the sun's heat. It will also keep them safe from storms and heavy rain." 
Isaiah5:1 Now I will sing a song for the person that I love. I will sing to him about his vineyard. ‘The one that I love had a vineyard. It was on a hill where the soil is good. 
Isaiah5:2 He dug the ground and he removed the stones. He planted the best vines in it. He built a tower in the middle of the vineyard so that he could watch it. He built a place to squeeze the grapes to make wine. Then he waited for the vines to make sweet grapes. But the vines made only bitter grapes.’ 
Isaiah5:3 So now, listen to me, you people who live in Jerusalem and in Judah. You must be the judge! Who did what was right? Was it me or my vineyard? You decide!" 
Isaiah5:4 I did everything that I could to help my vineyard. I could have done no more! But when I waited to get sweet grapes from the vines, there were only bitter ones! Why was that?" 
Isaiah5:5 Now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will break down its walls, so that it becomes an open field. Then wild animals will go in and they will destroy the vines." 
Isaiah5:6 I will make the land become useless. Nobody will take care of the vines. Nobody will dig the ground. Weeds and thorn bushes will grow there. I will command the clouds, ‘Do not drop any rain on it.’" 
Isaiah5:7 Israel's nation is like the vineyard of the Lord Almighty. Judah's people are his beautiful garden. But when the Lord looked there for justice, he found only murder! When he looked for people who were righteous, he saw that they were cruel." 
Isaiah5:8 It will be very bad for you people who buy many houses for yourselves. You also buy land to join to the land that you already have. Then there is no more land left for anyone else. You are the only people who remain on the land. 
Isaiah5:9 I have heard the Lord Almighty promise this: ‘All these great, beautiful houses will certainly become empty. There will be nobody to live in them." 
Isaiah5:10 Large vineyards will give only a few bottles of wine. If you plant ten bags of seed, you will only get one bag of grain as your harvest.’" 
Isaiah5:11 It will be bad for you people who like to get up early to start drinking. You continue to drink late into the night, until you are very drunk." 
Isaiah5:12 You have wild parties with plenty of music and wine. You make music with your lyres, harps, tambourines and flutes. But you do not understand the things that the Lord is doing. You do not see the things that he has made." 
Isaiah5:13 Because of that, my people will go into exile in countries far away. They do not know God. Their leaders will die because they have nothing to eat. All the other people will have nothing to drink." 
Isaiah5:14 So the deep hole of death will be hungry! It will open wide to eat the people of Jerusalem. The leaders and the people will go down into it. It will eat up those who are happy at their wild parties in Jerusalem. 
Isaiah5:15 So the Lord will bring its people down low. Its proud people will become ashamed. 
Isaiah5:16 But the Lord Almighty will be lifted up high by his justice. People will know that he is holy when he comes as judge. 
Isaiah5:17 Then lambs will find good grass to eat, as they do in their own fields. Fat sheep will find food to eat among the stones of the old houses." 
Isaiah5:18 It will be very bad for you people who are always deceiving others. You cannot leave your sins behind, like someone who pulls a cart with a rope." 
Isaiah5:19 People like that laugh at God. They say, ‘The Lord should do something quickly! We want to see what he can do. The Holy God of Israel should do what he has decided to do. Then we will really know what that is!’" 
Isaiah5:20 It will be very bad for people who call evil things good. And they call good things evil. They say, ‘It is light,’ when it is dark. And they say, ‘It is dark,’ when it is light. They say that bitter things are sweet. And they say that sweet things are bitter." 
Isaiah5:21 It will be very bad for people who think that they are wise. They think that they are very clever. 
Isaiah5:22 It will be very bad for people who think that they are famous because they can drink a lot of wine. They think that they are very brave to mix strong drinks together. 
Isaiah5:23 If people like that receive a bribe, they will not say that wicked people are guilty. They also refuse to say that righteous people are not guilty." 
Isaiah5:24 Because of that, they will come to a bad end. It will be for them like a hot fire that destroys dry grass. Their roots will die and their flowers will blow away like dust. They have refused to obey the laws of the Lord Almighty. They have not listened to the message that the Holy God of Israel has taught them." 
Isaiah5:25 So the Lord has become angry with his people. He is ready to punish them. He has lifted up his hand, so that the mountains shake. Dead bodies of people are lying all over the streets. But that is not enough! The Lord is still angry with them. His hand is ready to punish them even more." 
Isaiah5:26 The Lord will send a message to foreign nations to come and attack. He calls to nations that are far away, and now they are already coming! Their armies march quickly to Jerusalem." 
Isaiah5:27 None of their soldiers are tired. They do not fall down. Nobody rests. Nobody sleeps. They have tied their belts strongly. Their shoes do not break in pieces. 
Isaiah5:28 Their arrows are sharp. Their bows are ready to shoot. Their horses' feet are as hard as stones. The wheels of their chariots go round very fast. 
Isaiah5:29 As they march to fight, they roar like lions. They are like strong young lions that catch other animals to eat. They carry their prisoners away to places where nobody can rescue them." 
Isaiah5:30 On the day that they attack, the enemy will roar over the people that they catch. They will make a noise like a rough sea. If anyone looks across the land, it will be completely dark because of all the trouble. Clouds will make the light of day become dark." 
Isaiah6:1 In the year when King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord God. He was sitting high up, on a throne. The ends of his long coat filled the temple." 
Isaiah6:2 Above him there were seraphs. Each one had six wings. Two wings covered the seraphs' faces. Two wings covered their feet. With the other two wings they were flying. 
Isaiah6:3 The seraphs called out to one another. They said, ‘ Holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty! The whole earth is full of his great glory.’" 
Isaiah6:4 When the seraphs spoke, the foundation of the temple shook. And the temple became full of smoke." 
Isaiah6:5 Then I said, ‘It is bad for me! My life is at an end! I have lips that are unclean. I live among people who have lips that are unclean. With my own eyes I have seen the King, the Lord Almighty.’" 
Isaiah6:6 Then one of the seraphs flew towards me. In his hand was a piece of burning coal. He had used a tool to take it from the altar. 
Isaiah6:7 He touched my mouth with the piece of coal. He said to me, ‘Look! This has touched your lips. It has taken away your sin. You are no longer guilty.’" 
Isaiah6:8 Then I heard the voice of the Lord God. He said, ‘Is there anyone that I can send with my message? Who will go on our behalf?’ I said, ‘I am here. Send me!’" 
Isaiah6:9 The Lord said, ‘Go! Tell my message to those people: “You will continue to listen, but you will never understand! You will continue to look, but you will not see anything!”" 
Isaiah6:10 Make them refuse to understand. Cause their ears to be deaf and their eyes to be blind. If you do not do that, they might use their eyes to see. They might use their ears to listen. They might use their minds to understand. Then they might turn back to me so that I would make them well again.’" 
Isaiah6:11 Then I asked the Lord, ‘For how long will this be, Lord God?’ He replied, ‘It must continue until enemies destroy their cities. Their houses will become a heap of stones and nobody will live in them. Their land will become useless and nothing will remain there." 
Isaiah6:12 I will send all the people far away. The whole land will be empty and useless. 
Isaiah6:13 Even if only one tenth part of the people remain in the land, enemies will continue to destroy it. It will be like they are cutting down a great oak tree. But the base of the tree with its roots will still be there. From the part that remains, a holy branch will grow.’" 
Isaiah7:1 Ahaz became the king of Judah. He was the son of Jotham. Jotham was the son of Uzziah. While Ahaz was Judah's king, King Rezin of Syria and Remaliah's son, King Pekah of Israel, attacked Jerusalem. But they could not get into the city." 
Isaiah7:2 People gave this news to Judah's royal family. They said, ‘The armies of Syria and Ephraim have joined together to attack you.’ When they heard this, Ahaz and his people were very afraid. They shook with fear, like trees in the forest shake in the wind." 
Isaiah7:3 Then the Lord said to Isaiah, ‘Go out and meet Ahaz. Take your son, Shear-Jashub, with you. Go to meet Ahaz at the end of the water stream that comes from the higher pool. That is at the field where people wash clothes." 
Isaiah7:4 Say to Ahaz, “Be careful. Do not be upset or afraid. Do not let King Rezin, his people from Syria and Remaliah's son, King Pekah, make you afraid. They are very angry, but their power will soon be useless, like two bits of wood that remain after a fire." 
Isaiah7:5 The rulers of Syria and Ephraim, as well as Remaliah's son, have made plans to attack you." 
Isaiah7:6 They are saying, ‘We must attack Judah. We will frighten the people and we will take their country for ourselves. We will make the son of Tabeel rule there as king.’" 
Isaiah7:7 But I, the Almighty Lord, say this: That will never happen!" 
Isaiah7:8 The capital city of Syria is Damascus. And the king of Damascus is Rezin. 65 years from now Ephraim will not even be a nation. There will be nothing left! 
Isaiah7:9 The capital city of Ephraim is Samaria. And the king of Samaria is Remaliah's son. If you do not continue to trust me, you will not be strong enough to win.” ’" 
Isaiah7:10 Isaiah also gave this message from the Lord to Ahaz. 
Isaiah7:11 He said, ‘Ask the Lord your God to do a miracle for you. That will show you that what he has said is true. Ask for anything, deep in the earth or high in the sky.’" 
Isaiah7:12 But Ahaz said, ‘I will never ask the Lord to do that. I do not want to test him.’" 
Isaiah7:13 So Isaiah replied, ‘Now listen, you royal family of David! You cause trouble for people like me. That is bad enough. But now you are trying to cause trouble for God himself." 
Isaiah7:14 So the Lord God himself will show you that he speaks a true message. Look, the young woman who has never had sex will become pregnant. She will give birth to a son. She will call his name Immanuel." 
Isaiah7:15 One day he will know how to choose good things and refuse to do evil things. By that time there will be cream and honey for him to eat. 
Isaiah7:16 Even before that, the two kings that you are now afraid of will have no power. Their land will be empty." 
Isaiah7:17 But the Lord will bring even greater trouble to you! It will be very bad for you, for the royal family, and for your people. Nothing as bad will have happened since Ephraim became separate from Judah. Yes, the Lord will bring the king of Assyria to attack you!’" 
Isaiah7:18 At that time, the Lord will call the soldiers of Egypt to come and attack you. And they will come like a crowd of flies! He will call for soldiers to come from Assyria. And they will come like a crowd of bees!" 
Isaiah7:19 They will all come in great crowds. They will come into the valleys, the cliffs, the holes in the rocks, the thorn bushes and the pools of water." 
Isaiah7:20 At that time, the Lord God will use the king of Assyria to make you suffer. He will come from beyond the Euphrates River. He will be like a sharp knife that cuts off all your hair, the hair from your head, your legs and your beard." 
Isaiah7:21 At that time, a farmer will have only one young cow and two goats." 
Isaiah7:22 They will give him a lot of milk. So he will have butter and cream to eat. Everyone who remains in the land will have milk and honey as their food. 
Isaiah7:23 On that day, in every place where there had been 1,000 valuable vines, there will now be only weeds and thorn bushes." 
Isaiah7:24 In the whole land there will be only weeds and thorn bushes. So men will go to shoot wild animals there with their bows and arrows. 
Isaiah7:25 Nobody will go to the fields in the hills, because only thorn bushes grow there. People will be afraid to go there. They will send their cows there to eat grass. Sheep will run over the fields." 
Isaiah8:1 The Lord said to me, ‘Get a large board to write on. Then write clear words on it. Write this name: “Maher-Shalal-Hash-Baz.”" 
Isaiah8:2 I will call Uriah the priest and Jeberekiah's son, Zechariah, to come to see this. They are honest people who will say what is true.’" 
Isaiah8:2 I will call Uriah the priest and Jeberekiah's son, Zechariah, to come to see this. They are honest people who will say what is true.’" 
Isaiah8:3 Then I slept with my wife, the prophetess. She became pregnant and she gave birth to a son. The Lord said to me, ‘Call his name Maher-Shalal-Hash-Baz." 
Isaiah8:4 Before the child knows how to say “my father” or “my mother”, the king of Assyria will attack Damascus and Samaria. His army will carry away the valuable things from those cities. That is why your son's name must be Maher-Shalal-Hash-Baz.’" 
Isaiah8:5 The Lord spoke to me again. 
Isaiah8:6 He said, ‘I have blessed my people, like the quiet stream of Shiloah. But they have not accepted my help. Instead, they are happy that King Rezin and Remaliah's son will help them." 
Isaiah8:7 So I will cause this to happen. I, the Lord God, will bring floods of water from the Euphrates River. That will be the king of Assyria and his powerful armies. They will come like a great river that rises high over its sides." 
Isaiah8:8 Its water will come as a flood into Judah. It will cover the land and it will rise as high as people's necks! He will make his wings very wide to cover all your land, Immanuel.’" 
Isaiah8:9 You foreign nations must listen to this! Join together to fight. Shout as you go to battle. But you will never win! You people from countries that are far away, get ready for war. But you will be completely destroyed!" 
Isaiah8:10 Decide how you will fight the battle, but your plans will fail! What you decide to do will never happen. God is with us!" 
Isaiah8:11 Now the Lord spoke to me with great power. He warned me that I must not be like the other people in Judah. He said," 
Isaiah8:12 ‘Those people are talking about an agreement to turn against the rulers. But do not agree with what they say. Do not be afraid of the things that frighten them. Do not be afraid, as they are." 
Isaiah8:13 Instead, you should understand that the Lord Almighty has all authority. You should respect him as the holy God. You should be afraid of him." 
Isaiah8:14 He will be a safe place for you. But for both nations in Israel he will become like a stone that causes people to fall to the ground. He will be like a rock that makes them fall down. He will take hold of the people who live in Jerusalem, like a trap that catches a bird." 
Isaiah8:15 Many people will fall against that rock. They will fall to the ground and it will hurt them. They will become caught in a trap.’ 
Isaiah8:16 Tie a string around the paper where I have written this. Keep it safe as a true message. Give it to my disciples, to teach them." 
Isaiah8:17 I will wait for the Lord to do what he says. He has turned away from the descendants of Jacob. But I will trust him to do what is right. 
Isaiah8:18 Look! Here I am, with the children that the Lord has given to me. We are messages from the Lord Almighty who lives on Mount Zion. We are messages to Israel's people." 
Isaiah8:19 They will say to you, ‘Go to the people who speak to the spirits of dead people. Go to the magicians who speak magic words. They will tell you what you should do. People should ask their gods and spirits to give them messages. People who are alive should ask the spirits of dead people to help them.’" 
Isaiah8:20 When they say that to you, remember my teaching. Tell them what I have said will happen. People who talk like that are completely in the dark. There is no truth in what they say." 
Isaiah8:21 Then the people will travel through the land, and they will be sad and hungry. Because they are hungry, they will become angry. They will curse their king and their God, as they look up to the sky." 
Isaiah8:22 They will look down at the earth, but they will only see trouble. Everywhere will be dark and people will have no hope. Then they will fall into complete darkness." 
Isaiah9:1 But the darkness will not continue for ever. Those who had no hope will no longer be afraid. In past times, God let trouble happen to the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali. But in future years, he will cause the people of that region to receive great honour. Those are the places near the sea, places beyond the Jordan River, and the region of Galilee where people from other nations live." 
Isaiah9:2 The people who walk in the dark now see a bright light! Light is shining on those people who live in a land of complete darkness. 
Isaiah9:3 You, Lord, will make your nation stronger. You will cause your people to be very happy. They will be happy because you are with them. They will be like people who are happy at the time of harvest. They will be happy like soldiers who have won a battle, and who share their enemy's valuable things among themselves." 
Isaiah9:4 They are happy because you have removed the power of their cruel enemies. They no longer have to carry a heavy load, as slaves. You have rescued them from their enemies, in the same way that you won against Midian's army." 
Isaiah9:5 Fire will destroy every shoe that the soldiers wore to march into the battle. Their clothes which have the blood of war on them will also burn in the fire. 
Isaiah9:6 Yes, your people are happy! A child has been born for us. We now have a son with the authority to rule. His names will be: Wonderful Advisor, Mighty God, Father for Ever, Ruler who brings Peace." 
Isaiah9:7 His authority to rule will be very great. The peace that he brings will never have an end. He will rule as king over David's kingdom. He will make it strong and safe, because he will do what is right and fair. He will rule like that now and for ever. The Lord Almighty will make those things happen, because he loves his people." 
Isaiah9:8 The Lord God has spoken a message to warn Jacob's descendants, the kingdom of Israel." 
Isaiah9:9 All the people who live in Ephraim and in the city of Samaria know about it. But they are proud and they boast," 
Isaiah9:10 ‘We built houses with bricks and they fell down. But we will build them again with strong stones. People have cut down our fig trees, but we will plant great cedar trees instead.’" 
Isaiah9:11 But the Lord caused Rezin's enemies, and other nations to attack Israel." 
Isaiah9:12 Syria's army came from the east. The Philistines' army came from the west. They destroyed Israel's land, like a hungry animal. But the Lord is still angry. His hand is ready to hit them again." 
Isaiah9:13 The people did not turn back to the Lord Almighty, who had punished them. They did not ask for his help." 
Isaiah9:14 So, in one day, the Lord will destroy Israel, both its head and its tail. He will cut down both palm branch and reed." 
Isaiah9:15 The head is their leaders and important people. The tail is the prophets who teach lies. 
Isaiah9:16 The leaders of this nation lead them away from what is true. They confuse the people that they are leading. 
Isaiah9:17 So the Lord God is not pleased with their young men. He will not help their widows or their children who have no family. Nobody respects God and they all do evil things. They only speak about foolish things. But the Lord is still angry. His hand is ready to hit them again. 
Isaiah9:18 The evil things that the people do destroy everything. They are like a fire that destroys thorn bushes. They burn up all the bushes in the forest. Clouds of smoke rise up from a great fire. 
Isaiah9:19 The Lord Almighty is very angry. He punishes the land of Israel, like a fire that burns everything. The people are like wood that makes the fire burn well. None of them try to help each other." 
Isaiah9:20 People eat whatever food they can get, on their right side or their left side. But they are still hungry. They even eat their own family!" 
Isaiah9:21 Manasseh's tribe and Ephraim's tribe fight against each other. Then they join together to attack Judah. But the Lord is still angry. His hand is ready to hit them again. 
Isaiah10:1 It will be very bad for people who make cruel laws that are not fair. 
Isaiah10:2 They stop poor people from receiving what they should have. They do not let helpless people receive justice. They rob widows of all their things. They take things that belong to children who have no family. 
Isaiah10:3 It will be bad for you on the day when God comes to judge people. You will not escape the punishment that he will bring from far away. There will be nobody to help you. There will be no safe place to hide your valuable things. 
Isaiah10:4 You will have to join the people who are in prison. Or you will die with those that the enemy kills in war. But the Lord is still angry. His hand is ready to hit his people again. 
Isaiah10:5 It will be very bad for Assyria! I will use its army to punish my people, because I am angry with them. Assyria will be like a stick that I use to beat my people. That is how I will show them my anger." 
Isaiah10:6 I send Assyria's army against a nation that does not serve God. I command them to attack the people who cause me to be angry. I tell them to take that nation's valuable things for themselves. I tell them to walk all over them, as if they were walking on dirt in the streets." 
Isaiah10:7 But Assyria's ruler has other ideas. He does not understand that he is my weapon. He wants his army to destroy many nations, so that they have no power." 
Isaiah10:8 He boasts, ‘All my army's officers are like kings!" 
Isaiah10:9 We destroyed Calno as we destroyed Carchemish. We destroyed Hamath as well as Arpad. We destroyed Samaria as well as Damascus. 
Isaiah10:10 The idols of those cities were greater than those in Jerusalem or Samaria. But we won against them all! 
Isaiah10:11 So I will destroy Jerusalem and its idols, in the same way that I destroyed Samaria and its idols.’" 
Isaiah10:12 The Lord God will come to punish Mount Zion and Jerusalem. But when he has done that, he says, ‘Now I will punish the king of Assyria. He boasts in his mind and his eyes show how proud he is.’" 
Isaiah10:13 The king of Assyria says this: ‘I have won these battles because of my own strength. I have been very wise and clever. I have marched into nations as if they had no borders. I have taken their valuable things for myself. Like a wild bull, I have removed kings from their thrones." 
Isaiah10:14 I robbed them of their riches, like a person who takes eggs from a bird's nest. I was able to bring all the nations under my power. None of them could stop me. No bird could shake its wing at me, or open its mouth to cry at me!’" 
Isaiah10:15 The Lord says this: ‘An axe has no more power than the person who uses it. A saw is not more important than the person who cuts with it. A stick cannot lift up the man who holds it. No, it is the man who lifts up the stick!’" 
Isaiah10:16 So the Lord, the Almighty Lord, will punish Assyria's soldiers. They are now fat and healthy, but they will become thin! It will be like a fire that burns them, with all their proud strength." 
Isaiah10:17 The holy God, who is the Light of Israel, will become like a fire. Assyria's soldiers will be like weeds and thorn bushes and the fire will destroy them in one day." 
Isaiah10:18 The Lord will completely destroy Assyria's great forests and its good fields. It will seem like a bad disease is taking away their life. 
Isaiah10:19 Only a few trees will remain in the forests. Even a child will be able to count them! 
Isaiah10:20 At that time, only a few people will remain in Israel. Only a few descendants of Jacob will still be alive. They will no longer expect to receive help from a foreign ruler who is cruel to them. Instead, they will trust the Lord, the Holy God of Israel, to help them." 
Isaiah10:21 A few of Jacob's descendants will remain, and they will return to serve the mighty God." 
Isaiah10:22 Israel's people are now very many, as many as the sand on the shore of the sea. But only a few will remain to return. The Lord has decided to destroy you, people of Israel. His punishment is fair and right." 
Isaiah10:23 The Lord Almighty will destroy the whole land. He is ready to do that, as he has promised." 
Isaiah10:24 So this is what the Lord Almighty says: ‘My people who live in Zion, do not be afraid of the Assyrian army. They will hurt you, like someone who hits you with a heavy stick. They will be cruel to you like the people in Egypt were long ago." 
Isaiah10:25 But soon I will be angry with you no longer. Instead, I will be angry with the Assyrians, and I will be ready to destroy them.’" 
Isaiah10:26 Yes, the Lord Almighty will punish the Assyrians, like someone who uses a whip to beat them. That is how he destroyed the Midianites at the Rock of Oreb. He will hold his stick over the sea. He will lift it up as he did in Egypt." 
Isaiah10:27 At that time, the Lord will remove the heavy load that is on your shoulders. He will destroy the yoke that is on your neck. You will no longer be their slaves. The Lord will bless you and make you fat." 
Isaiah10:28 Assyria's army attacks Aiath! It marches through Migron. They store their things at Michmash. 
Isaiah10:29 They go across the hills. They stay at Geba for a night. The people in Ramah are afraid! The people in Gibeah of Saul run away. 
Isaiah10:30 People in Gallim, shout for help! Listen carefully, people in Laishah. Answer them, people in Anathoth." 
Isaiah10:31 The people in Madmenah run away. Those who live in Gebim run to a safe place. 
Isaiah10:32 Today, the enemy has reached Nob and it stops there. He shakes his fist angrily at the people who live on Mount Zion in the city of Jerusalem." 
Isaiah10:33 But look! The Lord Almighty is ready to use his great power to destroy Assyria's strong army. He will cut it down, like a tall tree. He will cut off all the branches and knock all the trees down to the ground." 
Isaiah10:34 The Lord will take his axe and he will cut down the trees of that great forest. Even the best trees of Lebanon must fall down! 
Isaiah11:1 A descendant of Jesse will appear, like a new branch that grows from a tree stump. The roots of the tree will produce new fruit!" 
Isaiah11:2 The Spirit of the Lord will be with him. The Spirit will make him wise, so that he understands things. The Spirit will show him what is right, and he will have the power to do it. The Spirit will cause him to know the Lord and to serve him truly." 
Isaiah11:3 To obey the Lord will make him very happy. He will not judge people because of what he sees with his eyes. He will not judge them because of what his ears hear about them. 
Isaiah11:4 But he will judge poor people with true justice. He will decide to do what is right for all the helpless people. He will have authority everywhere in the land. The words that he speaks will bring death to wicked people. 
Isaiah11:5 He will wear justice like a belt around his clothes. He will always be honest and true. 
Isaiah11:6 When he is king, wolves will live beside lambs! Leopards will lie down with young goats! Young cows and lions will feed together, and a young child will take care of them!" 
Isaiah11:7 Cows and bears will feed together. Even their children will lie down side by side. Lions will eat grass, as cows do." 
Isaiah11:8 If a baby plays near the hole where a snake lives, he will be safe. A young child may even put his hand into the hole of a dangerous snake." 
Isaiah11:9 Nothing will hurt or destroy anything else anywhere on my holy mountain. Instead, people will know the Lord all over the earth, as water fills the whole sea." 
Isaiah11:10 On that day, King David's descendant, the root of Jesse, will appear. He will be like a clear sign to all nations. They will come to him, so that he leads them. The place where he lives as king will be wonderful." 
Isaiah11:11 And on that day, the Lord God will bring his people back once again. He will lift up his powerful hand to rescue his people who are still alive. He will bring them back from Assyria, Egypt, Pathros, Cush, Elam, Babylonia, Hamath and from countries near the sea." 
Isaiah11:12 The Lord will lift up a clear sign for the nations to see. He will bring together Israel's people that their enemies took away. Yes, he will bring back Judah's exiles from all over the earth." 
Isaiah11:13 Ephraim will no longer be jealous of Judah. Judah will no longer be Ephraim's enemy. 
Isaiah11:14 But they will join together to attack the Philistines in the west. They will also attack the nations to the east of Israel. They will take their valuable things for themselves. They will win against the people of Edom and Moab. They will rule over the Ammonites. 
Isaiah11:15 The Lord will make the Sea of Egypt become dry. He will lift up his hand and he will send a strong wind to divide the Euphrates River. The river will become seven small streams. Then people can walk across it easily. 
Isaiah11:16 There will be a good road that comes from Assyria. The Lord 's people who remain will travel back home on it. It will be like the road that Israel's people travelled on when they left Egypt. 
Isaiah12:1 At that time, you will say, ‘I praise you, Lord. You were angry with me. But now you are no longer angry. Now you have been kind to me." 
Isaiah12:2 Listen! God is the one who saves me! I will continue to trust him. I will not be afraid because the Lord himself makes me strong. He keeps me safe. He rescues us from our enemies.’ 
Isaiah12:3 When God does that, it will make you very happy. You will be safe, like someone who gets plenty of good water from a well to drink." 
Isaiah12:4 At that time, you will say, ‘Praise the Lord! Thank him for his help! Tell all the nations about the great things that God has done. Tell them that he is very great!" 
Isaiah12:5 Sing songs to praise the Lord, because he has done wonderful things! Cause everyone in the world to know it!" 
Isaiah12:6 Everyone who lives in Zion, shout aloud and sing with joy! The Holy God of Israel is great, and he lives among you.’" 
Isaiah13:1 This is God's message about Babylon that he showed to Isaiah, the son of Amoz:" 
Isaiah13:2 Lift up a sign on an empty hill. Shout aloud for an army to attack! Wave your hand! Then they will go through the city gates into the rulers' palaces. 
Isaiah13:3 I, the Lord, have sent my special men. I am very angry. Those men are my brave soldiers who will punish Babylon on my behalf. They are proud because I have made them strong." 
Isaiah13:4 Listen to the loud noise of a big crowd on the mountains! It is the sound of large armies from many kingdoms as they march and shout. Nations are joining together to fight! The Lord Almighty is preparing an army ready for war. 
Isaiah13:5 People are coming from countries that are far away, from the ends of the earth. The Lord himself is coming with weapons for war, because he is angry. He will destroy the whole land." 
Isaiah13:6 Weep, because the day of the is near. That is the time when God Almighty will destroy his enemies." 
Isaiah13:7 All the people will become weak with fear. They will no longer be brave. 
Isaiah13:8 They will be very afraid. Their bodies will hurt with great pain, like a woman who is giving birth. They will look at each other, as their faces show fear and pain." 
Isaiah13:9 Look! The day of the Lord will happen soon! It will be a cruel day. The Lord will punish his enemies with great anger. He will destroy the whole land, as well as all the sinners in it." 
Isaiah13:10 When he does that, the stars in the sky will give no light. When the sun rises in the morning, it will still be dark. The moon will no longer shine." 
Isaiah13:11 I, the Lord, will punish the world, because it is evil. I will punish wicked people for their sins. I will stop proud people from boasting. If strong people are cruel to others, I will bring them down low." 
Isaiah13:12 Very few people will remain after my punishment. Men and women will be more difficult to find than the best gold. 
Isaiah13:13 Then I will cause the sky to shake. The earth will move from its proper place. People will see how angry I am, when they see the great anger of the Lord Almighty." 
Isaiah13:14 Everyone will try to run away and escape. They will run anywhere, like a deer that runs away from a hunter. They will be like sheep with no shepherd to lead them. They will return to their own countries and homes." 
Isaiah13:15 The enemy soldiers will catch all those who do not escape. They will use their swords to kill everyone that they catch. 
Isaiah13:16 They will knock their children down in pieces while the parents watch. They will rob the people's homes. They will have sex with their wives. 
Isaiah13:17 Look! I will cause the Medes to come and attack Babylon. Their army has no interest in silver or gold, so nobody can pay them to stop." 
Isaiah13:18 Their arrows will kill Babylon's young men. They will not let babies or children go free. 
Isaiah13:19 Yes, God will destroy Babylon, as he did to Sodom and Gomorrah. Babylon has been a great and beautiful city. The people of the whole nation have been very proud of it. But God will still destroy it." 
Isaiah13:20 The people and their descendants will never live there again. No Arab will put his tent there. No shepherds will take their sheep there to rest. 
Isaiah13:21 Only wild animals will lie down there. Its old houses will be full of jackals. Ostriches will live there and wild goats will jump in it. 
Isaiah13:22 Wild dogs and hyenas will cry out in its towers and palaces. Enemies will soon destroy Babylon! Only a few days remain. 
Isaiah14:1 The Lord will once again be kind to Jacob's descendants. He will choose to help Israel's people again, as his own people. He will put them back in their land. Foreign people will join them and they will become a part of Jacob's family." 
Isaiah14:2 People of other nations will help Israel's people to return to their own country. When they are living again in the land that the Lord gave to them, foreign people will become their servants, both men and women. In that way, the people who made the Israelites prisoners will be prisoners themselves! The Israelites will rule over the people who had been cruel to them." 
Isaiah14:3 At that time, the Lord will let you live safely, without trouble and without pain. You will no longer have to work for cruel people, as their slaves." 
Isaiah14:4 Then you will laugh at the king of Babylon. You will say to him, ‘Now you cannot be cruel to us any more! Your power to cause trouble has finished!" 
Isaiah14:5 The Lord has destroyed the authority of wicked rulers like you. 
Isaiah14:6 You used your power to attack people all the time. In your anger, you ruled over other nations, and you never stopped being cruel to them." 
Isaiah14:7 But now there is peace in the whole world. People can live safely. Everyone is so happy that they are singing! 
Isaiah14:8 Even the pine trees and the cedar trees in Lebanon are happy because your power has finished. They say to you, “Now God has knocked you down. So nobody will come again to cut us down!”" 
Isaiah14:9 The deep hole of death below the earth is ready to receive you! People there want to meet you. The spirits of those who ruled on the earth have heard that you are coming. They are standing up from their thrones. 
Isaiah14:10 All of them will say to you, “Now you have become as weak as we are! You are weak like us!”" 
Isaiah14:11 Your great power has now come down low, into the deep hole of death. People no longer praise you with their harps. Now you will lie on a bed of maggots. A blanket of worms will cover you." 
Isaiah14:12 Look at you! You have fallen from heaven! You shine like the bright morning star! You have won against many nations, but now you have come down very low!" 
Isaiah14:13 You said to yourself, “I will go up into heaven. I will put my throne above the stars of God. I will rule as king on the mountain in the far north, where the gods of the nations meet together." 
Isaiah14:14 I will go up above the tops of the clouds. I will become like the Most High God.” 
Isaiah14:15 But instead of that, you have come down into the deep hole of death. You have fallen to the deepest place under the earth." 
Isaiah14:16 In that deep place, people will look at you carefully. They will be very surprised. They will think, “This is the man who caused the earth to shake. He caused kingdoms to shake with fear. Is that really true?" 
Isaiah14:17 Is this really the man who made the world become like a desert? He destroyed its cities. He did not let his prisoners go back to their homes.” 
Isaiah14:18 All the kings of all the nations lie down there, with all their valuable things. Each king lies in his own grave." 
Isaiah14:19 But as for you, Babylon's king, they have thrown you out! You have no grave! You are like a branch that has broken off. You lie among the dead bodies of soldiers that their enemies have killed with their swords. They have thrown your body into a big hole in the rocks, and they have walked over it." 
Isaiah14:20 They will not bury you with those other kings, because you destroyed your land and you killed your people. Nobody will ever remember the family of a wicked person like you." 
Isaiah14:21 Prepare to kill this king's children, because of the sins of their ancestors. Then his children will not rule the world. They will not build cities everywhere.’" 
Isaiah14:22 This is what the Lord Almighty says, ‘I will attack Babylon and I will destroy it. I will leave nothing that people can remember. No people or their descendants will remain.’" 
Isaiah14:23 The Lord Almighty says, ‘I will make Babylon a place where wild animals live. There will be pools of bad water. I will sweep everything away, like someone who sweeps dirt away with a brush.’" 
Isaiah14:24 The Lord Almighty promises this: ‘It will happen exactly as I have decided. Yes, it will really happen like that." 
Isaiah14:25 I will destroy the Assyrians who are in my land. I will knock them down on my mountains. They will no longer be cruel to my people. My people will not be their slaves any more. 
Isaiah14:26 That is what I have decided for the whole earth. I am ready to show my power against all the nations.’ 
Isaiah14:27 Yes, the Lord Almighty has decided what he will do. Nobody can change it. He is ready to show his power. Nobody can stop it." 
Isaiah14:28 In the year that King Ahaz died, God showed this message to Isaiah:" 
Isaiah14:29 Do not feel happy, you Philistine people. God has destroyed the king who was attacking you. That king hit you with a big stick, but a dangerous snake will follow! And that snake will give birth to an even more dangerous snake that moves very fast." 
Isaiah14:30 The Lord will give food to the poorest of his people. The weak and helpless people will live safely. But you Philistine people will die from famine. I will destroy you all, so that nobody remains." 
Isaiah14:31 Gate of the city, weep! City, cry out in pain! You Philistine people should be very afraid! See that cloud of smoke in the north! It is the dust of an army that is marching towards you. Their soldiers are ready to fight, and none of them is afraid." 
Isaiah14:32 When a foreign nation sends a message, what should we say? Say that the Lord has made Zion very strong. When his people suffer, they will be safe there." 
Isaiah15:1 This is a message about Moab: In one night an enemy has destroyed Ar. In one night they have destroyed Kir. Those towns in Moab are now a heap of stones! 
Isaiah15:2 The people in Dibon have gone up to their temple to weep. They have gone up to the altars where they worship their gods. Moab's people are weeping because of what has happened at Nebo and Medeba. They are so upset that they have cut off their hair and their beards. 
Isaiah15:3 They are wearing sackcloth in the streets. On the roofs of their houses and in the open places in their towns, they are weeping. They fall to the ground as they weep." 
Isaiah15:4 The people in Heshbon and Elealeh cry aloud. People as far as Jahaz hear the sound of their voices! The soldiers of Moab cry aloud because they are afraid. They are shaking with fear. 
Isaiah15:5 I am very upset because of what is happening to Moab's people. They are running away, as far as Zoar and Eglath-Shelishiyah. They weep while they climb up the hill to Luhith. On the road to Horonaim they shout aloud, ‘An enemy has destroyed us!’" 
Isaiah15:6 Streams in Nimrim Valley have become dry. The grass has died. No green plants remain. 
Isaiah15:7 So Moab's people are leaving. They are going across Willow stream. They are carrying away their things and the food that they had stored. 
Isaiah15:8 Everywhere in Moab's country the people are calling out for help. The noise of their sad songs has reached Eglaim and Beer-Elim. 
Isaiah15:9 Blood fills the streams of Dimon. But I, the Lord, will cause even more trouble to happen there. A lion is ready to attack! Those who are trying to escape will die, as well as those who remain in the land." 
Isaiah16:1 We must send sheep as gifts to the ruler of our land. Send them from Sela across the desert. Send them to Mount Zion in Jerusalem. 
Isaiah16:2 Moab's women are standing at the shore of Arnon River. They want to go across. They are like birds that people have chased out of their nests. 
Isaiah16:3 The Moabites say, ‘Tell us what we should do! Help us in our troubles! Give us some shade in the middle of the day! Hide the people who are escaping! Our enemies are chasing us. Do not let them find us." 
Isaiah16:4 Let us escape from Moab and come to live among you. Our enemy wants to destroy us. Please keep us safe!’ Yes, one day, the cruel enemy will have gone. He will no longer attack the land and destroy it." 
Isaiah16:5 One of David's descendants will rule as king. He will be true and honest. He will judge people in a fair way. He will quickly bring justice among his people. 
Isaiah16:6 The people of Judah say, ‘We know how proud Moab's people are. We have heard how they boast about themselves. They think that they can do anything that they want. But all their pride is empty and useless!’" 
Isaiah16:7 Because of their troubles, Moab's people weep. They are all very upset. They are sad because there are no more sweet raisins from Kir-Hareseth!" 
Isaiah16:8 Yes, nothing grows in Heshbon's fields. There are no grapes on Sibmah's vines. The rulers of other nations have destroyed the vineyards. The branches of those vines reached as far as Jazer, and the desert. They even grew to go across the sea." 
Isaiah16:9 Because of that, I weep for the vines of Sibmah, as Jazer weeps. I pour out my tears all over you, Heshbon and Elealeh. Your people no longer sing because they are happy at harvest time. There is no more fruit on your trees or crops in your fields." 
Isaiah16:10 Nobody is happy in the fields. Nobody sings or shouts with joy in the vineyards. Nobody squeezes the grapes to make wine. I have caused all the happy noise to stop. 
Isaiah16:11 So I cry deep inside me for Moab. I cry like the sad music of a harp. I am very upset for Kir-Hareseth. 
Isaiah16:12 Moab's people go to their altars and temples to pray for help from their gods. But they will only become tired. Their prayers will be useless. 
Isaiah16:13 That is the message that the Lord has already spoken about Moab. 
Isaiah16:14 But now the Lord says, ‘In three years' time, all Moab's glory will have gone. Count every day of those years, as if you are working to receive money. After that, there will only be a few of Moab's people who are still alive. Now they are many and they are strong. But by then they will be few and weak.’" 
Isaiah17:1 This is a message about Damascus: ‘Look! Damascus is no longer a city! It has become a heap of stones. 
Isaiah17:2 Nobody lives in the cities of Aroer. Sheep and goats can safely go there to eat. They can lie down there and nobody will chase them away. 
Isaiah17:3 There will be no strong cities in Ephraim. No king will rule in Damascus. The few people who remain in Syria are no longer great, like Israel's people!’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Isaiah17:4 ‘At that time, Israel will no longer be great. It will be like a rich, fat person who becomes weak and hungry." 
Isaiah17:5 Israel will be like a field of grain in Rephaim Valley after the harvest. The workers have cut down the crops. They have picked up the grain from the ground. 
Isaiah17:6 There will be only a few people that remain in Israel. They will be like a few olives that remain on a tree after the harvest. Perhaps two or three olives are still there on the highest branches. Four or five olives may remain on the other branches.’ That is what the Lord God of Israel says. 
Isaiah17:7 At that time, people will turn back to their Maker. They will trust the Holy God of Israel to help them." 
Isaiah17:8 They will no longer trust their idols to help them. They made altars for themselves, where they worshipped their gods. They worshipped Asherah at special poles. They made altars where they burned incense. But they will not do those things any more." 
Isaiah17:9 At that time, Israel's strong cities will be empty. People will run away from those cities, as the Amorites ran away from the hills when the Israelites attacked them. Israel's strong cities will become heaps of stones." 
Isaiah17:10 That will happen because you have forgotten the God who rescues you. He is the Rock where you can safely hide, but you have turned away from him. Instead, you plant the best plants and vines in your gardens. You buy them from foreign countries for a lot of money." 
Isaiah17:11 You take care of them so that they grow quickly. They may even make flowers on the same morning that you plant them! But you will never have any fruit from them. You will only get trouble and pain that will never go away. 
Isaiah17:12 It will be very bad for the armies of other nations! They are making a noise like the sea in a storm! They are as loud as powerful waves! 
Isaiah17:13 But it does not matter how much noise they make. Those people may roar like powerful waves, but the Lord will shout at them to stop. Then they will run far away! They will run like the wind as it blows chaff across the hills. It will be like a strong storm that carries away dead weeds!" 
Isaiah17:14 Look at what happens! In the evening the enemy attacks, and we are very afraid. But by the morning they have disappeared! That is what happens to people who attack us. Anyone who tries to take away our valuable things for themselves will fail." 
Isaiah18:1 It will be very bad for that land beyond the rivers of Cush. Their ships seem to have wings and fly everywhere! 
Isaiah18:2 They send messages over the sea in boats that they make from reeds. Their boats sail quickly on the water. Go now! Take a message quickly. Go to a country where the people are tall and their skin has no hair. Everyone is afraid of that nation's people. They are a powerful and strong nation. Many rivers go through their land. 
Isaiah18:3 All you people who live in the world, listen to this! You will see a battle flag on the mountains. You will hear the sound of a trumpet." 
Isaiah18:4 This is what the Lord said to me: ‘I will watch quietly from my place. I will work quietly, like the heat that comes from the sun. I will be as quiet as the mist that comes at harvest time.’" 
Isaiah18:5 Then, when the grapes on the vines are nearly ready for harvest, the Lord will cut them off! He will use his knife to cut off the branches." 
Isaiah18:6 Like those branches, the dead bodies of the soldiers will lie in the fields. The wild animals and the vultures will come to eat them. The vultures will feed on them all through the summer. The wild animals will eat them all through the winter." 
Isaiah18:7 At that time, the Lord Almighty will receive gifts from the people of that land. Many rivers go through that land. Its people are tall and their skin has no hair. Everyone is afraid of them. Their nation is strong and powerful. Those people will bring their gifts to Mount Zion. That is the place that the Lord Almighty has chosen for people to worship him there." 
Isaiah19:1 This is a message about Egypt. Look! The Lord is coming to Egypt! He is riding quickly on a cloud and he will soon arrive! The idols of Egypt will shake with fear when he comes. All the people in Egypt will be very afraid. 
Isaiah19:2 ‘I will cause Egypt's people to fight against each other. People will fight against their own family. They will fight against their neighbours. Cities and kingdoms will fight against each other. 
Isaiah19:3 The Egyptians will become afraid, so that they do not know what to do. They will ask for help from their idols. They will ask the spirits of dead people to tell them what to do. They will ask magicians to talk to those spirits on their behalf." 
Isaiah19:4 I will cause a cruel master to have power over Egypt. A powerful king will rule over its people.’ That is what the Lord, the Almighty Lord, says." 
Isaiah19:5 The water of the sea will become dry. The River Nile will also become dry and it will have no water in it. 
Isaiah19:6 The streams will have a bad smell. All the streams and rivers will slowly become dry. The reeds and the river grasses will die. 
Isaiah19:7 The plants beside the river will die, as well as the crops in the fields along the shore. Everything will become dry and the wind will blow it all away." 
Isaiah19:8 The people who catch fish in the River Nile will be very sad. Yes, everyone who throws a hook into the river will cry. The people who throw nets into the river will not catch any fish." 
Isaiah19:9 The people who make linen cloth will not know what to do. There will be no flax for them to use. 
Isaiah19:10 They will be very upset. All the people who work to get money will be sad. 
Isaiah19:11 The royal officers in Zoan are fools! Pharaoh's wise leaders tell him to do stupid things! They should not boast to Pharaoh that they are wise. They should not say that they are descendants of wise kings from long ago. 
Isaiah19:12 Pharaoh, where have your wise men gone? Call them to come! Ask them to tell you what the Lord Almighty has decided to do against Egypt." 
Isaiah19:13 The officers in Zoan are fools. The officers in Memphis have confused each other. The leaders of Egypt's clans have led their people in the wrong direction. 
Isaiah19:14 The Lord has sent among the people in Egypt a spirit that confuses them. They go the wrong way in everything that they do. They are like drunk people who have been sick. They cannot walk in a straight line. 
Isaiah19:15 Nobody in Egypt will be able to do anything. They may be Egypt's head or its tail, a palm branch or a reed. There is nothing that anyone can do." 
Isaiah19:16 At that time, the Egyptians will be weak, like women. They will shake with fear because the Lord Almighty is ready to punish them." 
Isaiah19:17 The people of Judah will frighten the Egyptians very much. If anyone says Judah's name, everyone who hears it will be afraid. They will be very afraid of the punishment that the Lord Almighty will bring to them." 
Isaiah19:18 At that time, five cities in Egypt will speak the language of Canaan. The people in those cities will promise to obey the Lord Almighty. One of the cities will have the name ‘Sun City’." 
Isaiah19:19 At that time, there will be an altar in the middle of Egypt's land, where people will worship the Lord. There will also be a tall stone for the Lord at Egypt's border." 
Isaiah19:20 Those two things will be signs to tell everyone in Egypt about the Lord Almighty. Because of those signs, the Egyptians will remember that the Lord is powerful. When their enemies are cruel to them, they will call out to the Lord for help. Then he will send a strong saviour to rescue them." 
Isaiah19:21 The Lord will cause the Egyptians to know him. They will agree to serve him. They will worship the Lord with sacrifices and offerings. They will make promises to the Lord, and they will do what they have promised to do." 
Isaiah19:22 The Lord himself will punish the Egyptians. But after that, they will turn to the Lord. He will answer their prayers, and he will make them well again." 
Isaiah19:23 At that time, there will be a road from Egypt to Assyria. People from Assyria will travel to Egypt, and Egyptians will travel to Assyria. Egyptians and Assyrians will worship together." 
Isaiah19:24 At that time, Israel will join Egypt and Assyria as a third important nation. They will bring blessing to the whole world." 
Isaiah19:25 The Lord Almighty will bless them all. He will say, ‘I will bless Egypt, who are now my people. I will bless Assyria, the people that I have made. And I will bless Israel, the people that I have chosen to belong to me.’" 
Isaiah20:1 One year, Sargon, the king of Assyria, sent the leader of his army to attack Ashdod. His army fought against Ashdod and they took the city." 
Isaiah20:2 At that time, the Lord gave this message to Isaiah, the son of Amoz. He said, ‘Go and remove the rough clothes that you are wearing. Take your shoes off your feet.’ Isaiah did what the Lord told him to do. He walked about without clothes and without shoes." 
Isaiah20:3 After three years, the Lord said, ‘My servant Isaiah has walked without clothes and without shoes for three years. That is a sign to warn Egypt and Cush about what will happen to them." 
Isaiah20:4 The king of Assyria will take away people from Egypt as prisoners. He will do the same thing to the people of Cush. Young people and old people will go as prisoners to Assyria. They will not wear any clothes or shoes. People will see their bare bodies. The Egyptians will be very ashamed. 
Isaiah20:5 Anyone who trusted that Cush or Egypt would be strong enough to save them will be ashamed. They will be afraid. 
Isaiah20:6 At that time, the people who live on this coast will say, “Look! This has happened to the people that we trusted to help us. We thought that they would rescue us from the king of Assyria. Now we will never escape from his power.” ’" 
Isaiah21:1 This is a message about the desert near the sea. Trouble is coming from the desert, like a strong wind that blows from the south. It comes from a land of great fear." 
Isaiah21:2 The Lord showed me a vision of terrible things. ‘People are deceiving one another! People are destroying one another! Elam, go to attack Babylon! People from Media, attack all around the city! I will stop all the tears that Babylon's armies have caused.’" 
Isaiah21:3 Because of that vision, I am very upset. Bad pains attack me, like the pains of a woman who is giving birth. My body hurts because of the things that I have heard. I am afraid to look!" 
Isaiah21:4 It confuses my mind. I shake with fear. I wanted a quiet evening, but instead there is terror." 
Isaiah21:5 Look! They are preparing a feast. They have put down mats for people to sit on. People are eating and drinking. Officers, stand up! Make your shields ready for battle!" 
Isaiah21:6 This is what the Lord God has said to me: ‘Go! Put someone on the city wall to watch. Tell him to report what he sees. 
Isaiah21:7 If he sees chariots that two horses are pulling, or riders on donkeys, or riders on camels, he must watch very carefully.’" 
Isaiah21:8 Then the guard shouted, ‘Lord God, I am standing every day on the tower where I watch. I stand at my place every night." 
Isaiah21:9 And look! Something is coming! It is a chariot that two horses are pulling!’ The rider reported, ‘An enemy has completely destroyed Babylon! All the idols of its people's gods lie in pieces on the ground!’" 
Isaiah21:10 Yes, my people, Babylon's army has hurt you very much. But now I have reported to you the message from the Lord Almighty, Israel's God." 
Isaiah21:11 This is a message about Dumah. Someone is shouting to me from Seir. They are asking, ‘ Guard, how soon will the night finish? Please tell me.’" 
Isaiah21:12 The guard replies, ‘The morning will come soon. But the night will quickly follow. If you want to ask again, then come back. Come and ask!’" 
Isaiah21:13 This is a message about Arabia. Traders from Dedan, you put up your tents in Arabia's wilderness." 
Isaiah21:14 You must bring some water for the thirsty people to drink. You people who live in Tema, bring food to give to the hungry people who are running away from danger." 
Isaiah21:15 They are running away from the weapons of war. They are running from the swords, bows and arrows of a dangerous battle." 
Isaiah21:16 This is what the Lord God has said to me: ‘In one year's time, all Kedar's glory will have gone. Count every day, as if you are working to receive money." 
Isaiah21:17 Only a few of Kedar's brave soldiers will remain, with their bows and arrows.’ That is what the Lord, Israel's God, has said." 
Isaiah22:1 This is a message about the city that is called ‘ Vision Valley’. What are you doing? You have all climbed up on the roofs of your houses! 
Isaiah22:2 Your city is full of the noise of parties, and people are shouting. It was not war that killed the people who are lying in your streets. They did not die in a battle." 
Isaiah22:3 When the enemy came, all your leaders ran far away. The enemy caught all your people. They caught them all and they did not need to shoot any arrows!" 
Isaiah22:4 So I say, ‘Leave me alone! Let me weep with many tears. The enemy has killed many of my people, so do not try to comfort me.’" 
Isaiah22:5 The Lord, the Almighty Lord, has decided to bring great trouble to Vision Valley. It is a day of fear. People run here and there because they do not know what to do. The enemy knocks down the city's walls. People shout to the hills for help." 
Isaiah22:6 Elam's soldiers came with bows and arrows. They came with chariots and riders on horses. Kir's soldiers prepared their shields to fight. 
Isaiah22:7 So your beautiful valleys were full of chariots. Soldiers on horses prepared to attack your city's gates. 
Isaiah22:8 The enemy destroyed Judah's strong places where people could be safe. In that day, you looked for weapons in the House of the Forest." 
Isaiah22:9 You saw that there were many holes in the walls of the City of David. You stored water in the Lower Pool. 
Isaiah22:10 You counted the houses in Jerusalem and you knocked down some of them. You used the stones to make the city's wall stronger. 
Isaiah22:11 You built a place between the city's walls to store water from the Old Pool. But you did not trust the one who made the city. You did not think about the one who decided to build it a long time ago. 
Isaiah22:12 At that time, the Lord Almighty told you to be very sad and weep. He told you to cut all the hair off your heads and to wear rough clothes." 
Isaiah22:13 But instead, you are happy and you dance! You kill cows and sheep for a feast! You eat lots of meat and you drink lots of wine. You say, ‘We will have a big feast today, because tomorrow we will be dead!’" 
Isaiah22:14 But the Lord Almighty has told me this: ‘I will never forgive this sin of my people for as long as they live.’ That is what the Lord, the Almighty Lord has said." 
Isaiah22:15 This is what the Lord Almighty says: ‘Now go and speak to Shebna, the officer with authority in the king's palace." 
Isaiah22:16 Say to him, “You should not be here in the palace. You have cut a grave in the rock here for yourself, but you do not have the authority to do that! You have made a beautiful grave high up on the hill, as if you belong with the kings." 
Isaiah22:17 But look! The Lord will catch you and he will throw you out! You are just a man. He will take hold of you with all his strength. 
Isaiah22:18 He will hold you in his hand like a ball and he will throw you far away. You will die in that large, open country. Your great chariots will be useless there with you. You have brought shame to your master's family." 
Isaiah22:19 I will remove you from your job. You will no longer be an important officer in the palace. 
Isaiah22:20 At that time, I will call my servant Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, to come." 
Isaiah22:21 I will put on him your special clothes. I will tie your belt round him. I will give your authority to him. Then Eliakim will become like a father to the people in Jerusalem and the people in Judah. 
Isaiah22:22 I will give the key of David's royal family to him. He will have complete authority. Any door that he opens, nobody may close it. Any door that he closes, nobody may open it." 
Isaiah22:23 I will fix him strongly in his place, like a peg in a strong wall. Because of him, people will respect and praise his father's family." 
Isaiah22:24 His children and his family will become more important because of him. They will be like bowls, cups and jars that hang on him as the strong peg.” ’" 
Isaiah22:25 The Lord Almighty says, ‘When the time comes, the strong peg will fall out of the wall. I will cut it down and it will fall. Then all the things that hang on it will fall down as well.’ That is what the Lord has said." 
Isaiah23:1 This is a message about Tyre. Weep aloud, you people in the great ships of Tarshish. An enemy has destroyed the port and the houses of Tyre. They heard this news in Cyprus." 
Isaiah23:2 Weep quietly, you people who live on the coast of the sea. Yes, weep, you traders of Sidon city. Your sailors travelled across the sea and you became rich." 
Isaiah23:3 They brought grain to you from Shihor region in Egypt. You received crops that had grown beside the River Nile. Tyre became an important city where traders from many nations came. 
Isaiah23:4 Be ashamed, you people in Sidon. You have become strong because of the sea. But the sea now speaks against you! It says, ‘I have not given birth to any children. I have not taken care of any sons or daughters as a parent should do.’" 
Isaiah23:5 When the people in Egypt hear the news about Tyre, they will be very sad and upset." 
Isaiah23:6 Travel to Tarshish! Weep aloud, you people who live on the coast of the sea." 
Isaiah23:7 Tyre is a city where you had many parties. It has been there since long ago. People from this city went to live in foreign countries far away. 
Isaiah23:8 It is a royal city and its traders are princes. They are famous everywhere on earth. So who decided to destroy it? 
Isaiah23:9 The Lord Almighty did that! He decided to show that the pride of those people is useless. He decided to bring all those famous people down low. 
Isaiah23:10 People of Tarshish, now you will have to grow your own crops. Grow them like they do beside the River Nile. Traders no longer come to Tyre to sell their things." 
Isaiah23:11 The Lord has lifted his hand up over the sea. He has made kingdoms shake with fear. He has given his command against Canaan, to destroy all its strong places." 
Isaiah23:12 He says to Sidon's people, ‘Your parties have finished! Now it will be a time of pain for you. Move away, if you can! Travel to Cyprus. But you will still not be safe there.’" 
Isaiah23:13 Look at what happened in Babylonia. Its people have disappeared! The Assyrian army has made it a place for wild animals to live in. Their soldiers built hills of earth against the city's walls. They climbed over and they destroyed its strong buildings. Babylon's buildings became heaps of stones. 
Isaiah23:14 So weep aloud, you great ships of Tarshish. Enemies have destroyed your strong place." 
Isaiah23:15 At that time people will forget Tyre for 70 years. That is how long one king lives. At the end of 70 years, there will be a change in Tyre. It will happen to them like the song about the prostitute:" 
Isaiah23:16 ‘Prostitute that people have forgotten, walk about the city with your harp. Play it well. Sing many songs. Then people will remember you again.’" 
Isaiah23:17 At the end of 70 years, the Lord will be kind to Tyre. People from all the nations of the world will come to Tyre to buy things. Tyre will receive their money, like the prostitute in the song." 
Isaiah23:18 But the money that Tyre receives will belong to the Lord. Tyre's traders will not hide their riches or store them. Their money will buy plenty of food and beautiful clothes for people who worship the Lord. 
Isaiah24:1 Understand this! The Lord is ready to destroy the earth. It will become a desert. He will spoil the ground. He will chase away all the people who live on it. 
Isaiah24:2 It will be the same for all people: priests as well as ordinary people, masters as well as their servants, rich ladies as well as their servant girls, sellers as well as buyers, people who lend money as well as those who borrow it, rich people as well as poor people." 
Isaiah24:3 The whole earth will become empty. Nothing will remain. The Lord has said that this punishment will certainly happen. 
Isaiah24:4 The earth becomes dry and all the plants die. The whole world becomes weak and helpless. Its important people also become weak. 
Isaiah24:5 The people who live on the earth have caused it to become unclean. They have not obeyed God's laws. They have turned against his teaching. They have not obeyed the covenant that God made with them for ever. 
Isaiah24:6 That is why a curse is destroying the land. The people who live on it are guilty and God is punishing them. They become fewer and fewer. Only a very few of them remain. 
Isaiah24:7 There is no new wine and the vines are dying. The people who were happy to drink the wine are now sad. 
Isaiah24:8 The happy sound of tambourines has stopped. The noise from parties has finished. The harps no longer make any happy music. 
Isaiah24:9 People cannot drink wine, so they do not sing. When people drink beer, it seems bitter." 
Isaiah24:10 The city has become so spoiled that it is useless. People have locked their houses so that nobody can go in. 
Isaiah24:11 They shout in the streets because they have no wine. Nobody is happy any more, anywhere on the earth." 
Isaiah24:12 The city has become a heap of stones. Its gates lie in pieces on the ground. 
Isaiah24:13 This is what will happen among all the nations on the earth. Only a few people will remain, like a few olives that remain on a tree after the harvest. After people have picked the grapes off a vine, there are only a few that remain." 
Isaiah24:14 Those people who are still alive sing aloud because they are happy. People who live in the west praise the Lord because he is great. 
Isaiah24:15 So people who live in the east should praise the Lord too. People who live on the coast of the sea will also praise the name of the Lord, Israel's God." 
Isaiah24:16 From every part of the earth, we hear songs. People sing to praise the Righteous One. But I say, ‘I have become very weak and thin! It will be very bad for me! Evil people are turning against their friends. They deceive people more and more!’" 
Isaiah24:17 People everywhere on the earth, terror is ready to catch you! You will fall into a deep hole, and a trap will catch you!" 
Isaiah24:18 Anyone who runs away from the sound of the terror will fall into the deep hole. The trap will catch anyone who climbs out of the big hole. God has opened the windows of the sky. He has caused the foundations of the earth to shake. 
Isaiah24:19 The earth has become broken into many pieces. It has torn apart. It is shaking powerfully. 
Isaiah24:20 The earth is like a drunk man. It cannot walk in a straight line. It moves in all directions, like a tent in a storm. The people's sins are like a heavy weight on the earth. It cannot carry them and it will fall. It will never be able to get up again." 
Isaiah24:21 At that time, the Lord will punish the powerful beings in the skies above. He will punish the kings who rule on the earth below." 
Isaiah24:22 He will bring them together like prisoners in a deep hole. That will be their prison. They will be there for a time, and then he will come to punish them." 
Isaiah24:23 The moon will hide its face in shame. The bright light of the sun will become dark. Yes, the Lord Almighty will become king on Mount Zion. He will rule with great power in Jerusalem. The leaders of the people will see his great glory." 
Isaiah25:1 Lord, you are my God! I will praise you because your name is great. You have done wonderful things. You decided a long time ago what you would do. And you have done exactly what you promised to do." 
Isaiah25:2 You have destroyed cities so that they become a heap of stones. You have destroyed the strongest cities. The beautiful palaces in foreign lands have disappeared. Nobody will build them again. 
Isaiah25:3 So people of strong nations will praise you. The people of cruel nations will be afraid of you. 
Isaiah25:4 Lord, you have been a safe place for poor people. When helpless people were in trouble, you have kept them safe. You were a place for them to hide from the storm. You gave them shade from the heat. Yes, cruel people attack them like a storm that hits against a wall." 
Isaiah25:5 and like strong heat in the desert. You stopped the proud noise of foreign people. Like the shadow of a cloud that stops the heat of the sun, you stopped our cruel enemy's songs. You stopped them as they boasted of their strength." 
Isaiah25:6 The Lord Almighty will prepare a feast on this mountain. It will be a feast for all the nations of the world. It will be a great feast, with plenty of meat and wine. The best meat and the best wine will be there." 
Isaiah25:7 On this mountain the Lord will take away the things that make all people sad. He will remove the cloth that covers the people of all nations. 
Isaiah25:8 The Almighty Lord will destroy death for ever. He will clean away the tears in everyone's eyes. His people will not feel ashamed any more. Nobody in all the world will ever insult them again. That is what the Lord has said. 
Isaiah25:9 At that time, people will say, ‘Look! This is our God! We trusted him to keep us safe, and he rescued us. Yes, this is the Lord! We trusted him to keep us safe. We will sing with joy, because he has saved us.’" 
Isaiah25:10 The Lord 's power will bless this mountain. He will knock down Moab's people and he will walk all over them. He will walk on them, as if they are straw in a heap of dung." 
Isaiah25:11 Moab's people will try to escape from that punishment. They will push with their hands as they try to swim out! But the Lord will make their proud strength useless, whatever they do to escape." 
Isaiah25:12 He will knock down the high walls of Moab's city. He will completely destroy their strong place. It will all fall down into the dust on the ground. 
Isaiah26:1 At that time, people will sing this song in Judah: We have a strong city, where we are safe. The Lord has made it safe, like strong walls that protect us all around." 
Isaiah26:2 Open the gates of the city, so that the righteous nation can come in. They are the people who continue to be faithful." 
Isaiah26:3 Lord, you keep those people safe who continue to trust in you. You give them peace in their minds, because they believe in you." 
Isaiah26:4 Trust in the Lord now and for ever! The Almighty Lord will always be our strong Rock. 
Isaiah26:5 He brings down low the proud people who live in high places. He destroys their cities. He knocks down their cities so that they fall to the ground and become dust. 
Isaiah26:6 The poor people and the helpless people will walk all over it. 
Isaiah26:7 Righteous people walk on a path that is flat. You make their path straight, Lord." 
Isaiah26:8 Yes, Lord, as we follow the path of your justice, we wait for you to help us. We really want people to know that you are great. We want them to praise your name." 
Isaiah26:9 During the night, I think about you a lot. When morning arrives, I want to be near to you in my spirit. When you come to judge people on the earth, then people will understand your justice." 
Isaiah26:10 If you are kind to wicked people, they will never learn to do what is right. They continue to do wrong things, even in a land where people are honest. They do not see that you are great, Lord." 
Isaiah26:11 Lord, you are ready to punish them, but they do not realize that. Make them see that you love your own people. Then they will become ashamed. In your anger, punish them with fire, as your enemies deserve." 
Isaiah26:12 Lord, you will give us peace. Everything that we have done, you have done on our behalf." 
Isaiah26:13 Lord, our God, other lords have ruled over us. But you are the only one that we worship." 
Isaiah26:14 Those other lords are dead. They will not live again. Their spirits will not rise up again. You punished them and you destroyed them. Nobody remembers them any more. 
Isaiah26:15 Lord, you have made our nation larger. You have made our nation larger and you have shown how great you are. You have made all the borders of our land grow bigger." 
Isaiah26:16 Lord, when your people had trouble, they came to you for help. When you punished them, they turned to you and they prayed." 
Isaiah26:17 Because of your punishment, Lord, we had much pain. We were like a woman who is giving birth and she cries out with pain." 
Isaiah26:18 Yes, it seemed like we were pregnant and ready to give birth. But we could only give birth to wind! We could not do anything to make the land safe. We have no descendants who will bring new life to the world." 
Isaiah26:19 But Lord, your people who have died will live again. Their bodies will rise up from their graves. You people who live in the ground, wake up! Shout because you are happy. You bring new life to the earth, like dew that comes in the morning. Dead people will come up from the earth and they will live again." 
Isaiah26:20 My people, go into your homes. Shut the doors and hide yourselves for a short time. Wait there until the Lord is not angry any more." 
Isaiah26:21 Look! Now the Lord is coming from the place where he lives. He is coming to punish the people who live on the earth for their sins. The earth will clearly show the blood that murderers poured out on it. Murderers will no longer be able to hide the people that they have killed. 
Isaiah27:1 At that time, the Lord will punish Leviathan. The Lord will use his great and powerful sword to destroy that monster. Leviathan is a snake that moves very fast in the sea and it turns in every direction. But the Lord will kill it." 
Isaiah27:2 At that time, sing a song about a beautiful vineyard!" 
Isaiah27:3 I, the Lord, keep it safe. I will continue to put water on it. I will guard it night and day, so that nobody can hurt it." 
Isaiah27:4 I am not angry now. If there were thorn bushes or weeds in my vineyard, I would attack them. I would burn them all." 
Isaiah27:5 But my enemies should turn to me for help. They should agree to live in peace with me. Yes, that is what they should do." 
Isaiah27:6 The time will come when Jacob will grow well, like a strong plant in the ground. Yes, Israel will make flowers and branches. Their fruit will fill all the world." 
Isaiah27:7 The Lord did not punish Israel's people as much as he punished their enemies. He did not kill them as much as he killed their enemies. 
Isaiah27:8 But Lord you sent your people to a land far away. That is how you punished them. You blew them away with a storm that came from the east. 
Isaiah27:9 In that way, the Lord punished Jacob's descendants for their sins. They are no longer guilty. This will be the result when God has taken away Jacob's sin completely: All the stones in their altars will break into small pieces. No Asherah poles or altars for incense will continue to stand." 
Isaiah27:10 The strong city will become empty. Nobody will live there any more. It will be like an empty desert. Young cows will eat the grass there, and they will lie down there. They will eat all the leaves on the branches of the tree." 
Isaiah27:11 When the branches become dry, they break off the tree. Women will take the sticks and they will make fires with them. That is what these people are like. They do not understand anything. So their Maker will not help them or be kind to them." 
Isaiah27:12 At that time, the Lord will shake the tree! He will do that to his people everywhere from the Euphrates River to the Stream of Egypt. Then he will bring together all of you, one by one, you Israelite people." 
Isaiah27:13 At that time, they will hear the sound of a loud trumpet. Then people who were dying in exile in Assyria will come. People who went away into Egypt will also come. They will worship the Lord on his holy hill in Jerusalem." 
Isaiah28:1 It will be very bad for Ephraim's beautiful city, Samaria! The people who live there drink too much wine and they become drunk. They are proud of their great city. It is on a hill above a valley where many good things grow. It is like a beautiful flower, but it will be beautiful no more and it will die." 
Isaiah28:2 Look! The Lord God is sending a strong and powerful army to attack it. It comes like a strong storm of ice. Its wind destroys everything. It is like rain that pours down and causes a flood. He will knock down Ephraim's great city to the ground with his great power! 
Isaiah28:3 The drunk people of Samaria think that their city is great. But their enemies will knock it down and walk all over it. 
Isaiah28:4 The city is like a beautiful flower that will soon die. It is on a hill above a valley where many good things grow. But it will be like a fig on a tree. It is ready to eat before the harvest time. When someone sees it, he will quickly pick it. And he will eat it!" 
Isaiah28:5 At that time, the Lord Almighty will be a great leader of his people. He will be like a beautiful crown for his people who still remain alive." 
Isaiah28:6 He will help judges to decide what is right. He will give strength to the people who keep the city safe from those who attack it. 
Isaiah28:7 But now wine causes the leaders in Ephraim to become drunk. They cannot walk in a straight line because they drink too much beer. Beer causes the priests and the prophets to fall over. Wine confuses their minds. When they see visions, they cannot understand them. When they judge people, they cannot decide what is right." 
Isaiah28:8 They are sick over all their tables. Everywhere is covered with dirt. 
Isaiah28:9 They say, ‘Why does the Lord try to teach us like that? Who does he think that we are? He speaks to us as if we are babies! He thinks that we have just left our mother's breast!" 
Isaiah28:10 He teaches us one rule at a time, one line at a time. He says it several times, a little bit here, a little bit there.’" 
Isaiah28:11 So now the Lord will use foreign enemies to speak to these people. He will speak to them in a strange language. 
Isaiah28:12 In the past, the Lord said to them, ‘This is a place where you can rest when you are tired. It is a place where you can be safe.’ But his people refused to listen." 
Isaiah28:13 So the Lord 's message will seem to them like, ‘One rule at a time, one line at a time, a little bit here, a little bit there.’ So as they try to move forward, they will fall over. An enemy will hurt them, and he will catch them in a trap." 
Isaiah28:14 So listen to the Lord 's message, you leaders in Jerusalem who rule these people. Do not laugh at what the Lord is doing." 
Isaiah28:15 You boast, ‘We have made a covenant with death. Yes, we have made an agreement with Sheol. When trouble comes to our city like a deep flood of water, we will be safe. We trust in our lies to keep us safe.’" 
Isaiah28:16 So the Almighty Lord says this: ‘Look! I am putting a special stone in Zion. It is a valuable stone, because it makes a strong foundation at the corner of my building. Anyone who continues to trust will never become disappointed." 
Isaiah28:17 Justice and righteousness will make that foundation strong and true. But if you trust in lies, a storm of ice will destroy your safe place. A flood of water will destroy the place where you are hiding." 
Isaiah28:18 I will stop your covenant with death. Your agreement with Sheol will not continue. When trouble comes like a deep flood of water, it will drown you." 
Isaiah28:19 A flood of punishment will come again and again, and it will carry you away. It will come every morning, and all through the day and the night.’ When you understand this message from the Lord, you will be very afraid." 
Isaiah28:20 You will not be able to rest, like a tall person who tries to sleep on a short bed. Your blanket will not cover your whole body." 
Isaiah28:21 But the Lord will do a great thing, like he did at Mount Perazim. He will be very angry, as he was in the Gibeon Valley. He will do something that is very wonderful and strange." 
Isaiah28:22 So do not laugh at me when I warn you. If you do not listen, your punishment will become even worse. The Lord Almighty has told me what he has decided. He has decided to destroy the whole land." 
Isaiah28:23 So listen carefully to my message. Hear what I am saying! 
Isaiah28:24 A farmer ploughs the ground because he wants to plant seeds in it. He does not continue to plough for ever. 
Isaiah28:25 When he has prepared the ground, he plants many different seeds. He plants dill and cumin. He plants wheat, barley and different grains in their proper places." 
Isaiah28:26 God teaches the farmer and he tells him the right thing to do. 
Isaiah28:27 After the harvest, the farmer knows how to remove seeds from dill or from cumin. He will not pull a heavy iron weight over dill. He will not run the wheels of a cart over cumin. Instead, he will hit them with a light stick." 
Isaiah28:28 When he crushes grain to make flour for bread, he does not do it for a long time. He drives the wheels of his cart over the grain, but he does not let his horses crush it." 
Isaiah28:29 The Lord Almighty causes farmers to know all that. His ideas are very wise, and he shows us how to live in a wise way." 
Isaiah29:1 It will be very bad for Ariel, the city where David lived. Continue to have your usual feasts every year, but trouble will come!" 
Isaiah29:2 I will bring trouble to Ariel. The people there will be very sad and they will weep. Ariel will become like my altar for burnt offerings. 
Isaiah29:3 I will bring an army to attack you. There will be soldiers all around the city so that nobody can leave. I will build strong towers against the city's walls. 
Isaiah29:4 Then you will fall down to the ground. While you lie there, you will speak. Your words will come quietly from deep down in the dirt. It will seem like the voice of a dead person's spirit. You will sound like a magician who is speaking magic words." 
Isaiah29:5 Your enemies will be like an army of dust. The wind will blow away that crowd of cruel men as if they are chaff. That will all happen very suddenly! 
Isaiah29:6 The Lord Almighty will come with great power. He will come with thunder, earthquake and a loud noise. There will be a great storm with strong winds and a fire that burns up everything." 
Isaiah29:7 The great crowd of armies from all the nations that attack Ariel will quickly disappear. They will soon come to an end, like a dream that someone sees in the night. All the weapons that they bring to attack the city's walls will disappear!" 
Isaiah29:8 A hungry man may dream that he is eating a big meal. But as soon as he wakes up, he knows that he is still hungry! A thirsty man may dream that he is drinking. But as soon as he wakes up, he knows that he is still weak and thirsty. That is what it will be like for the great armies from all the nations that have come to attack Mount Zion." 
Isaiah29:9 You are so surprised that you do not believe what I say. You have become completely blind. You are stupid, like people who are drunk, but not from wine! You fall over, but not because you have drunk too much beer!" 
Isaiah29:10 It is the Lord who has caused you to be like that. He has caused you to be completely asleep. He has shut the eyes of your prophets and he has covered the heads of your seers. 
Isaiah29:11 You do not understand this vision that the Lord has given to me. It is like the words in a closed book. Give the book to someone who can read. Say to him, ‘Read this, please.’ But he will answer, ‘I cannot read it, because someone has closed it.’" 
Isaiah29:12 Give the book to someone who cannot read and tell them, ‘Read it, please.’ But he will answer, ‘I do not know how to read.’" 
Isaiah29:13 The Lord God says, ‘These people open their mouths to worship me. They use their lips to say that I am great. But they are not really thinking about me. When they worship me, they use rules that people have taught them." 
Isaiah29:14 So now I will surprise these people again. I will surprise them with great miracles! Wise people will not seem wise any more. Clever people will no longer seem to be clever.’ 
Isaiah29:15 It will be very bad for people who try to deceive the Lord. They try to hide their thoughts from him. They secretly decide to do evil things. They boast and they say, ‘Nobody can see us. Nobody knows what we are doing.’" 
Isaiah29:16 Your minds are really confused! You think that the clay is more important than the person who uses it to make pots! A bowl cannot say to its maker, ‘You did not make me!’ A pot cannot say to the potter, ‘You do not know what you are doing!’" 
Isaiah29:17 Very soon, Lebanon's forest will become a field of fruit trees. And the field of fruit trees will seem like a forest." 
Isaiah29:18 At that time, deaf people will be able to hear when someone is reading words from a book. Blind people who have been living in a dark place will be able see what is happening." 
Isaiah29:19 And the Lord will make weak people happy again. Poor people will sing with joy, because of what the Holy God of Israel has done." 
Isaiah29:20 Cruel people will disappear. Proud people who insult others will no longer be there. There will be no more people who love to do evil things. 
Isaiah29:21 It will be the same for people who tell lies in court. They deceive the judge at the city gate. They say false things against good people to make them guilty. People who are like that will have gone! 
Isaiah29:22 So this is what the Lord says to Jacob's descendants. He is the one who rescued Abraham. He says, ‘Jacob's descendants will no longer be ashamed. Their faces will show their shame no more." 
Isaiah29:23 They will see that I have blessed them so that they have many children. Then they will agree that I am great. They will praise me, the Holy God of Jacob. They will respect me, Israel's God." 
Isaiah29:24 At that time, people with minds that are confused will understand what is right. And people who like to complain will accept my teaching.’" 
Isaiah30:1 The Lord says, ‘It will be very bad for you, my children who have turned against me. You have decided what to do, but you did not ask me about it. You have made an agreement with Egypt, but my Spirit did not tell you to do that. In that way, you continue to do more and more sins." 
Isaiah30:2 Your leaders travel to Egypt to ask for Pharaoh's help to keep them safe. But they did not ask me what I think about it. They think that Egypt has the power to protect them. 
Isaiah30:3 But Pharaoh's help will only make you ashamed. If you trust in Egypt's power, that will bring you down low." 
Isaiah30:4 Judah's officers have arrived in Zoan, and some of them have gone to Hanes." 
Isaiah30:5 But the people of Egypt will not be able to help you. So everyone in Judah will become ashamed. If you trust in Egypt, they will give you shame instead of help.’" 
Isaiah30:6 Here is a message about the animals that travel in the Negev Desert: It is a place where there is trouble and danger. There are dangerous lions there, both male and female. There are different kinds of dangerous snakes. People are carrying their valuable things on the backs of donkeys and camels. They are taking their riches as gifts to a nation that cannot help them!" 
Isaiah30:7 Help from Egypt is useless! So I call Egypt ‘Rahab who does nothing.’ 
Isaiah30:8 Go and write this message down for them to see. Yes, write it in a book so that it will always be there to read. In the future, it will always show what is true." 
Isaiah30:9 These people have turned against the Lord. They are his children but they love to tell lies. They do not want to obey his Law. 
Isaiah30:10 They say to the seers, ‘Do not see any more visions!’ They say to the prophets, ‘Do not tell us messages about what is right! Tell us nice things, even if they are not true." 
Isaiah30:11 Leave this path. Get out of our way! Stop telling us about the Holy God of Israel.’ 
Isaiah30:12 Because of that, this is what the Holy God of Israel says: ‘You have not accepted my message. Instead, you like to be cruel and to deceive people. You believe that it will help you." 
Isaiah30:13 So your sin will cause you to fall down. You will be like a high wall that has a weak place. It is not safe and it will bend and fall down. Very suddenly it will fall with a great bang! 
Isaiah30:14 That wall will break into pieces, like the pieces of a pot. It will be completely broken so that it is all useless. There will be no piece that is big enough to carry coal from a fire, or water from a well.’" 
Isaiah30:15 The Almighty Lord, Israel's Holy God says this: ‘Turn back to me and wait for me to help you. Be quiet and trust in me. Then you will be safe and you will be strong again.’ But you do not want to trust in God." 
Isaiah30:16 Instead, you say, ‘No! We will run away on horses and we will escape.’ Yes, you will run away! You say, ‘Our horses will run very fast!’ But your enemies who chase you will also be very fast!" 
Isaiah30:17 When one soldier from your enemy chases after you, one thousand of your men will run away from him! Five of them will chase away your whole army! Only a few of you will remain, like a stick with a flag on the top of a hill." 
Isaiah30:18 So the Lord is waiting for the right time to be kind to you. He is ready to show his great love for you. The Lord God does what is right and fair. Everyone who waits for him to come and help them is a happy person! 
Isaiah30:19 People will live in Zion again. You people who live in Jerusalem will not weep any longer. When you call to the Lord for help, he will be kind to you. When he hears you, he will answer you." 
Isaiah30:20 The Lord God has given trouble to you, like bread that you must eat. He has given pain to you, like water that you must drink. But he will no longer hide himself from you. He will be with you, to teach you and to be your guide." 
Isaiah30:21 You will hear his voice behind you. When you turn off the path, to the right or to the left, he will say, ‘This is the right way. Walk in it.’" 
Isaiah30:22 Then you will destroy your idols and your images of false gods. You used silver or gold to make them beautiful. But now you will throw them away like a piece of dirty cloth. You will tell them, ‘Go away!’" 
Isaiah30:23 The Lord will send rain for the seeds that you have planted. The ground will give you plenty of good food. At that time, your cows will have lots of grass to eat in wide fields." 
Isaiah30:24 The bulls and the donkeys that work on your farms will eat the best food. They will eat the same grain that people eat. 
Isaiah30:25 Streams of water will pour down from every tall mountain and every high hill. That will happen at the time when your enemies are destroyed. Their strong towers will fall down. 
Isaiah30:26 At that time, the moon will shine as bright as the sun. Light from the sun will be seven times brighter. It will be like the light of seven days at the same time! At that time, the Lord will make the wounds of his people better. He has hurt them, but now he will make them better." 
Isaiah30:27 Look! The Lord is coming with his great power from a place that is far away. He is very angry. Thick clouds of smoke are all around him. He speaks angry words that destroy like fire. 
Isaiah30:28 His breath is like a flood of water that pours out over his enemies. The water reaches as high as their necks. He shakes the nations in a sieve to destroy the bad parts. He leads them away from their bad ways, like a man who leads a horse with a rope." 
Isaiah30:29 Then you, the Lord 's people, will sing! It will be like the happy songs that you sing in the evening at your special feasts. You will be very happy. It will seem like you are making music as you go up to Mount Zion to worship the Lord there. He is the Rock where Israel can be safe." 
Isaiah30:30 Then the Lord will shout with royal authority. People will know that he has come with great power to punish his enemies. His anger will be like a fire that burns everything. He will come with a great storm of rain, thunder and hail that destroys everything." 
Isaiah30:31 When the Lord shouts, his command will destroy the Assyrian army. He will knock them down with his heavy stick." 
Isaiah30:32 He will punish them with a big stick. He will use his weapons to attack them. As he does that, there will be happy music from harps and tambourines!" 
Isaiah30:33 The Lord has already prepared a place to burn the bodies of the dead people. It is ready for the king of Assyria! There is a place for him that is deep and wide. There is plenty of wood for the fire. The Lord 's breath will be like a stream of hot sulphur. He will breathe out on the heap of wood and the fire will burn! 
Isaiah31:1 It will be very bad for those people who expect that Egypt will help them. They think that Egypt's many horses and chariots will keep them safe. They trust the power of Egypt's strong soldiers who ride on horses. But those people do not trust the Holy God of Israel. They do not ask the Lord to help them. 
Isaiah31:2 But the Lord is very wise. He will bring trouble to people, as he has promised. He will not change his mind. He will punish wicked people, as well as those who help them to do evil things." 
Isaiah31:3 The men in Egypt are human. They are not God. Their horses are weak animals, not powerful spirits. When the Lord lifts up his hand to punish them, the strong helpers will not be able to stand. The people who expected them to help will fall down too. They will all come to an end together." 
Isaiah31:4 This is what the Lord said to me: ‘The Lord Almighty will come down to fight on Mount Zion and on its hill. He will come like a strong young lion that roars when it has caught a lamb to eat. Even if a whole crowd of shepherds come to chase it away, their shouts will not make the lion afraid." 
Isaiah31:5 The Lord Almighty will make Jerusalem safe. He will protect it like a bird that protects its nest. He will pass over the city and he will rescue it. 
Isaiah31:6 Israelite people, you have turned completely against the Lord. Now turn back to him!" 
Isaiah31:7 The time will come when everyone must throw away their gold and silver idols. It was a sin for you to make them for yourselves. 
Isaiah31:8 The Assyrian soldiers will die in battle. But humans did not make the sword that will kill them. It is God's sword that will destroy them. The Assyrians will run away from that sword. But their strong young men will have to do hard work as slaves. 
Isaiah31:9 Their strongest soldiers will run away because they are afraid. The officers of their army will be afraid when they see the Lord 's battle flag.’ That is what the Lord says. His fire is in Zion. Yes, his hot oven is in Jerusalem." 
Isaiah32:1 Look! A king is coming who will rule in a right and fair way. Honest leaders will rule under his authority. 
Isaiah32:2 Each leader will be like a safe place to hide from strong winds and storms. He will be like streams of water in a desert. And he will be like the shadow of a great rock in a hot, dry land." 
Isaiah32:3 At that time, everyone who has eyes will be able to see clearly. Everyone who has ears will be able to listen well." 
Isaiah32:4 People who do things too quickly will stop and think first. Those who cannot speak well will be able to talk clearly. 
Isaiah32:5 Nobody will praise a stupid person. Nobody will respect people who cheat others. 
Isaiah32:6 Stupid people say silly things. They think of evil things that they can do. They live in a way that does not respect God. The things that they teach about the Lord are false. They keep food away from hungry people. They give no drink to thirsty people. 
Isaiah32:7 Cruel people do evil things to deceive others. They think of ways that they can cheat their friends. They tell lies to give trouble to poor people. So poor people do not receive the justice that they deserve. 
Isaiah32:8 But good people think of ways that they can be kind to others. They do the good things that they have decided to do. 
Isaiah32:9 You women, listen carefully to what I say to you! You think that you have no problems. You feel very safe. But listen to me!" 
Isaiah32:10 Now, you think that you are safe, but in one year's time, you will shake with fear. There will be no grapes at harvest time. You will pick no fruit from your trees." 
Isaiah32:11 You think that you have no problems, but you should be afraid. Yes, shake with fear! Take off all your beautiful clothes. Tie rough cloth round your legs instead." 
Isaiah32:12 Weep and hit your breasts, because your good fields have no crops, and your vines have no grapes." 
Isaiah32:13 Weep because of what has happened to my people's land. Only thorn bushes and weeds grow there. Weep because there are no longer any happy homes. There are no more parties in the city. 
Isaiah32:14 Nobody will remain in the king's great palace. The city that is now full of people will be empty. The city's hill and its strong buildings will become heaps of stones for ever. Wild donkeys will play in those places, and sheep will find grass to eat." 
Isaiah32:15 It will be like that until God pours a new spirit on us from heaven. Then, deserts will become fields of fruit trees. And fields of fruit trees will seem like forests." 
Isaiah32:16 Everywhere, people will be honest and fair, in the deserts as well as in the fields." 
Isaiah32:17 People will do things that are right, so there will be peace. People will always be safe." 
Isaiah32:18 My people will live safely and quietly in their homes. They will not be afraid of trouble. 
Isaiah32:19 A storm of hail may destroy the forest. The buildings in the city may all fall down too. 
Isaiah32:20 But the Lord will bless you. You will plant your seeds beside streams of water. You will send your cows and donkeys into the fields, and they will have plenty of grass to eat." 
Isaiah33:1 It will be very bad for you who destroy other nations. No other nation has destroyed you yet. It will be very bad for you who deceive other nations. No other nation has deceived you yet. But in the end, when you stop destroying, others will destroy you. When you stop deceiving, other nations will deceive you." 
Isaiah33:2 Lord, please be kind to us. We wait for you to help us. Make us strong every day. Rescue us when trouble happens." 
Isaiah33:3 When they hear the noise of battle, the nations run away. When you go to war, they run in every direction!" 
Isaiah33:4 You nations, after the battle your valuable things will quickly disappear! It will seem like locusts have eaten them all. Yes, we will take it all, like a hungry crowd of locusts." 
Isaiah33:5 The Lord is greater than all others. He lives high above the earth. He will cause Zion's people to do what is right and fair. 
Isaiah33:6 Whatever happens, he will cause you to be strong. He will always keep you safe, and he will make you wise, so that you understand things. Respect the Lord with fear, and he will do all this for you." 
Isaiah33:7 Look! Our brave soldiers are calling out in the streets. The people that we sent to make peace with our enemies are weeping. 
Isaiah33:8 The big roads are empty. Nobody is travelling anywhere. People spoil agreements that they have made. They do not believe what people promise. They do not respect anyone. 
Isaiah33:9 The land itself is dry and useless. Lebanon's forest is dying. Sharon has become like a desert. The trees in Bashan and Carmel have no leaves. 
Isaiah33:10 The Lord says, ‘Now I will stand up to do something. I will show that I am great and powerful." 
Isaiah33:11 My enemies, everything that you want to do will be useless. Your thoughts are like dry grass and straw. Your own breath will destroy you, like a fire that burns dry grass." 
Isaiah33:12 Your people will be like wood for the fire, and only ashes will remain. They will burn as easily as thorn bushes that people cut down and throw on the fire." 
Isaiah33:13 You people who live far away, listen to what I have done! You people who are near, understand that I am very strong.’" 
Isaiah33:14 The sinners who live in Zion are afraid. The people who do not respect God shake with fear. They ask, ‘Who among us can stay alive? This is a fire that burns everything. Nobody can stop it from burning!’" 
Isaiah33:15 But some people can still live! Those who are honest in what they do and fair in what they say. Those who refuse to cheat other people so that they can become rich. Those who refuse to accept bribes. Those who will not listen to murderers, and who will not think about evil things." 
Isaiah33:16 People who are like that will live in a safe place. Danger will not reach them among the high rocks. They will always have food to eat, and plenty of water to drink." 
Isaiah33:17 With your own eyes, you will see the king. He will be great and beautiful. You will see the land that he rules. It will reach far and wide." 
Isaiah33:18 Then you will think about the time when you were afraid. You will say, ‘Where is the enemy's important officer? Where is the officer that we paid taxes to? Where is the officer who counted our strong buildings? They are no longer here to give us trouble!’" 
Isaiah33:19 You will never see those cruel people again. You could not understand their language. They laughed at you with strange words. 
Isaiah33:20 Now, look at Zion, the city where we have our festivals. Yes, you will see Jerusalem. It will be a place that is quiet and safe. It will be like a tent that people will never move. They will never pull up its pegs. They will never break its ropes." 
Isaiah33:21 The Lord will rule there as our powerful God. Rivers and wide streams will run through it. Our enemies will not be able to bring their ships there to attack us. 
Isaiah33:22 The Lord will keep us safe. He is our judge, our ruler and our king." 
Isaiah33:23 At this time, your ship is not ready to go anywhere. You have not tied the ropes. There is nowhere to hang the sails. But then, you will take many valuable things from your enemies. You will share them after the battle. Even people who cannot walk well will carry away what they want!" 
Isaiah33:24 Nobody who lives in Zion will say, ‘I am ill.’ And God will forgive their sins." 
Isaiah34:1 Come near to me, people of all nations. Listen carefully, everyone! All the earth, and everything that is in it, listen to me! Yes, the whole world, and all who live in it, listen carefully!" 
Isaiah34:2 The Lord is angry against all the nations and all their armies. He has decided to destroy them, and that is what he will do." 
Isaiah34:3 Nobody will bury the dead bodies of those who have died in battle. The smell of their dead bodies will be everywhere. Their blood will pour down the mountains. 
Isaiah34:4 The stars in the sky will slowly disappear. The sky will close up like a book. All the stars will fall, like dry leaves that fall from a vine. They will drop like figs from a fig tree, when they become dry." 
Isaiah34:5 The Lord says, ‘My sword has finished its work in the skies. Now it will come to punish Edom. Those are the people that I have decided to destroy.’" 
Isaiah34:6 The Lord 's sword has blood all over it! It is the blood of young sheep and goats. It has the fat of meat on it. It is the fat from sheep's kidneys. Yes! The Lord is killing animals for a sacrifice in Bozrah. He will kill many people in Edom. 
Isaiah34:7 He will kill their wild oxen and their young bulls. Blood will pour over Edom's land. Fat will feed their soil. 
Isaiah34:8 The Lord has chosen a day for punishment. It will be a time when he punishes Zion's enemies, because they have attacked his people." 
Isaiah34:9 The water in Edom's streams will become tar. Its soil will become sulphur. Its whole land will become tar that is burning. 
Isaiah34:10 That fire will burn through the days and the nights. Its smoke will always continue to rise up. The land will be empty from one century to the next. Nobody will ever travel through it again. 
Isaiah34:11 Owls, hawks and other birds will live there, as well as all kinds of wild animals. The Lord will carefully measure the whole land, so that he can destroy it. It will become like an empty desert." 
Isaiah34:12 There will be no kingdom left for anyone to rule. Edom's leaders and officers will all disappear. 
Isaiah34:13 Thorn bushes will grow over its palaces. Bushes and weeds will grow over its strong cities. Jackals and ostriches will make their homes in the land. 
Isaiah34:14 Wild animals and hyenas will meet there. Wild goats will call out to each other. The night monster will come there, and she will find a place to stay." 
Isaiah34:15 Owls will build their nests there. They will take care of their eggs until the baby birds come out. They will keep their babies safe under their wings. Hawks will meet there too. They will be together in pairs, male and female." 
Isaiah34:16 Read the Lord 's book very carefully: ‘All these animals and birds will be there. They will all be together in pairs. The Lord himself has commanded what must happen. His Spirit brings them all together.’ 
Isaiah34:17 The Lord has decided where each one will live. He measures a place for every kind of animal and bird. The land will always belong to them to live in. It will be their home from one century to the next. 
Isaiah35:1 The desert and the dry land will be happy! The wilderness will be happy too, and beautiful flowers will grow there." 
Isaiah35:2 Yes, there will be lots of flowers! The land will sing and shout with joy! The desert will be as beautiful as Lebanon. It will seem like lovely places in Carmel and in Sharon. In those places, people will see the Lord 's glory. They will see that our God is very great." 
Isaiah35:3 If your hands feel weak, now be strong! If your knees are shaking, now be brave!" 
Isaiah35:4 Say this to people who are afraid: ‘Be strong! Do not be afraid! Your God is coming now. He is coming to punish his enemies for the bad things that they have done. He is coming to rescue you!’ 
Isaiah35:5 At that time, he will open the eyes of blind people. Deaf people will hear again." 
Isaiah35:6 People with weak legs will jump like deer. People who cannot speak now will shout with joy. Water will pour from springs in the desert. Streams of water will run in the wilderness. 
Isaiah35:7 The hot earth will become a pool of water. The dry ground will have springs of water. In the places where jackals made their homes, there will now be grasses and reeds." 
Isaiah35:8 There will be a great road there. It will be called ‘The Holy Way’. People who are unclean will not travel on it. It will be for those people who know God's way. Evil fools will not walk on it. 
Isaiah35:9 No lions will be there. No dangerous wild animals will come onto it. They will not come near to it. It is the people that the Lord has rescued who will travel on that road. 
Isaiah35:10 He has paid the price to rescue them, and they will return home along it. They will be happy and they will sing, as they go into Zion city. They will be very happy for ever. They will never again be sad or upset. All the time they will be completely happy." 
Isaiah36:1 When King Hezekiah had ruled Judah for 14 years, King Sennacherib of Assyria attacked Judah with his army. He took all the strong cities in Judah for himself." 
Isaiah36:2 Then the king of Assyria sent his army officer from Lachish to Jerusalem, to speak to King Hezekiah. The officer took a large army with him. He stopped at the stream of water that came from the higher pool. It was on the road to the field where people washed clothes." 
Isaiah36:3 These people came out to meet him: Hilkiah's son Eliakim, who was the most important officer in the king's palace. Shebna, a government officer. Asaph's son, Joah, the king's secretary." 
Isaiah36:4 The Assyrian army officer said to them, ‘Tell Hezekiah that the great king, the king of Assyria, says this to him: “Why are you so sure that someone will rescue you from our power?" 
Isaiah36:5 You say that you have good plans. You say that your army is strong. But those are only useless words! You have turned against me, so who are you trusting to save you?" 
Isaiah36:6 Yes, you think that Egypt is strong enough to help you. But you should not trust Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. He is like a weak stick. If you use it to walk with, it will break! A broken piece of stick will make a hole through your hand and give you much pain! That is the trouble that the king of Egypt brings to everyone who trusts him to help them." 
Isaiah36:7 Maybe you will say to me, ‘We are trusting the Lord our God to help us.’ But it was your king, Hezekiah, who removed the altars and the special places where you worship your God. He told the people of Judah and Jerusalem, ‘You must worship God only at the altar here in Jerusalem.’ ”" 
Isaiah36:8 So you should make an agreement with my master, the king of Assyria. I will give you 2,000 horses, if you have enough riders to put on them." 
Isaiah36:9 You cannot refuse what I offer to you! And I am only an unimportant officer who serves my master. You are hoping that Egypt will give you chariots and men to ride on horses. But you will never be strong enough to win a battle against us. 
Isaiah36:10 You should also understand this: It was the Lord himself who commanded me to bring my army here and attack Jerusalem. He said to me, “Attack this country and destroy it!” ’" 
Isaiah36:11 Then Eliakim, Shebna and Joah said to the leader of the Assyrian army, ‘Please sir, speak to us in the Aramaic language. We can understand it. Do not speak to us in the Hebrew language, because all the people who are on the wall of the city will understand it.’" 
Isaiah36:12 But the Assyrian army leader replied, ‘My master did not send me here to give this message only to your king and to you. The men who are sitting on the city wall also need to hear my master's message. Like you, they will soon have to eat their own dung and drink their own urine.’" 
Isaiah36:13 Then the Assyrian army leader stood there and he shouted in the Hebrew language, ‘Listen to this message from the great king, the king of Assyria!" 
Isaiah36:14 This is what the king says to you: “Do not let Hezekiah deceive you. He cannot save you from my power. 
Isaiah36:15 Do not believe Hezekiah when he tells you that you can trust the Lord to help you. He says, ‘The Lord will surely rescue us. He will not let the king of Assyria take this city for himself.’" 
Isaiah36:16 Do not believe what Hezekiah says!” This is what the king of Assyria says to you: “Show me that you accept my offer of peace and come out of your city. Then you will all live safely in your homes. You will eat the fruit from your own vines and fig trees. You will drink the water from your own wells. 
Isaiah36:17 Later, I will come to Jerusalem. I will take you away to a country that is like your own land here. There will be plenty of grain and new wine for you in that country. There will be bread and there will be vineyards." 
Isaiah36:18 Do not let Hezekiah deceive you when he says, ‘The Lord will rescue us.’ No god of any nation has ever saved his country from the king of Assyria's power." 
Isaiah36:19 The gods of Hamath and Arpad could not help their people. The gods of Sepharvaim could not help their people either. No god was able to rescue Samaria from my power. 
Isaiah36:20 No god among all the gods of those countries could save their people from my power. So do not think that the Lord can save Jerusalem from my power.” ’ 
Isaiah36:21 When the people who were sitting on the wall heard this, they were quiet. They did not reply, because King Hezekiah had said, ‘Do not answer him.’" 
Isaiah36:22 Then King Hezekiah's three officers, Eliakim, Shebna and Joah, went back to Hezekiah. They had torn their clothes because they were very upset. They told the king what the Assyrian officer had said." 
Isaiah37:1 When King Hezekiah heard the report of his officers, he tore his clothes. Then he put on sackcloth and he went into the Lord 's temple." 
Isaiah37:2 He sent Eliakim, Shebna and the leaders of the priests to Amoz's son, Isaiah the prophet. Eliakim was the most important officer in the king's palace. Shebna was a government officer. They were all wearing sackcloth." 
Isaiah37:3 They told Hezekiah's message to Isaiah: ‘This is a time of great trouble. Assyria has insulted us to make us ashamed. Our nation is like a woman who is ready to give birth, but she is too weak to push the child out." 
Isaiah37:4 The Assyrian officer has brought a message from his king to insult the God who lives for ever. Maybe the Lord your God has heard that message. He should punish the officer for his wicked message. So please pray for the people who remain in Jerusalem.’ 
Isaiah37:5 When King Hezekiah's officers told their message to Isaiah," 
Isaiah37:6 Isaiah said to them, ‘Tell your master that the Lord says this: “Do not let the words that you have heard make you afraid. The servants of the king of Assyria have insulted me, the Lord." 
Isaiah37:7 Listen to me! I will put a spirit into the king of Assyria's mind. He will hear a report which will cause him to return to his own country. There, in his own land, I will cause someone to kill him with a sword.” ’" 
Isaiah37:8 At that time, the king of Assyria had left Lachish city. When the Assyrian officer heard that news, he left Jerusalem. He went to meet the king at Libnah, where the king was now fighting a battle." 
Isaiah37:9 Then the king of Assyria heard a report about Tirhakah, the king of Ethiopia. People told him, ‘He has brought his army from Ethiopia to fight against you.’ When the king of Assyria heard that news, he sent another message to Hezekiah in Jerusalem." 
Isaiah37:10 This was his message to King Hezekiah of Judah: ‘You are hoping that your God will help you. Your God may say that the king of Assyria will not destroy Jerusalem. But do not let him deceive you. 
Isaiah37:11 You have heard how the kings of Assyria have completely destroyed all other countries. So do not think that your God will rescue you. 
Isaiah37:12 The gods of those other countries did not save them. Our kings destroyed the nations of Gozan, Haran and Rezeph. They killed the people of Eden who lived in Tel Assar." 
Isaiah37:13 The kings of Hamath and Arpad have gone. The king of Sepharvaim city has gone. The kings of Hena and Ivvah have also gone.’ 
Isaiah37:14 When Hezekiah received the letter with this message, he read it. Then he went up to the Lord 's temple. He put the letter there, in front of the Lord." 
Isaiah37:15 Hezekiah prayed to the Lord. He said: 
Isaiah37:16 ‘ Lord Almighty, you are Israel's God. You sit on your throne between the cherubs. Only you are the God who rules all the kingdoms in the world. You have made the heavens and the earth." 
Isaiah37:17 Lord, please listen carefully to me. Lord, look carefully at this letter. Listen to Sennacherib's message. He is insulting you, the God who lives for ever." 
Isaiah37:18 It is true, Lord, that the kings of Assyria have destroyed all these people and their lands." 
Isaiah37:19 They threw the gods of these nations into the fire. Those idols are not really gods. People used wood and stone to make them. So the Assyrians could destroy them. 
Isaiah37:20 So now, Lord, you are our God! Save us from the power of Sennacherib! Then all the kingdoms in the world will know that you alone are the Lord.’" 
Isaiah37:21 Then Amoz's son, Isaiah, sent this message to Hezekiah: ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says, “You have prayed to me about Sennacherib, the king of Assyria.”" 
Isaiah37:22 This is the Lord 's reply. The Lord says this about King Sennacherib: “The holy people of Zion laugh at you! They think that you are useless. Yes, the people of Jerusalem shake their heads as you run away." 
Isaiah37:23 Who do you think it is that you have insulted? Who have you shouted at? Who have you looked at so proudly? The answer is the Holy God of Israel! 
Isaiah37:24 You have sent your servants to insult the Lord God. You have said, ‘I have taken all my chariots and I have gone up high mountains, the highest mountains in Lebanon. I have cut down its tall cedar trees, and I have cut down its best pine trees. I went up to its highest places, and I went far into its forests." 
Isaiah37:25 I dug wells and they gave me water to drink. My army marched through all the rivers in Egypt, and the rivers became dry.’" 
Isaiah37:26 You said that, but now listen to this! You must surely have heard it already. I decided what to do a long time ago! Now I am causing it to happen. I decided that you would destroy strong cities so that they became heaps of stones." 
Isaiah37:27 The people of those cities have no power. They are afraid and they are confused. They are like plants in a field, that cannot live for a long time. They are like fresh green grass, or grass that grows on the roof of a house. When a hot wind blows on them, it burns them and they die." 
Isaiah37:28 I know everything about you. I know where you live. I know when you go out. And I know when you return home. I know how much you shout against me, when you are angry." 
Isaiah37:29 Yes, you do shout at me! And I have heard all your proud noise. So I will put my hook in your nose. I will tie a rope to your mouth. Then I will pull you back home by the same way that you came.”" 
Isaiah37:30 King Hezekiah, this is how you will know that I have spoken a true message from the Lord. This year, you will eat crops that grow by themselves. And next year you will eat what grows from the same seeds. But in the third year you will plant seeds for yourselves, and they will give you a harvest of crops. You will plant vines again and you will eat grapes from them." 
Isaiah37:31 The people who remain in Judah will be like strong plants that put their roots down into the ground. Their branches will give lots of fruit. 
Isaiah37:32 A small number of people will still be alive in Jerusalem. They will leave Mount Zion and they will go to other places. The great love that the Lord Almighty has for his people will cause that to happen! 
Isaiah37:33 This is what the Lord says about the king of Assyria: “His army will not come into this city. His soldiers will not shoot any arrows here. They will not attack the city as they hold their shields. They will not build heaps of earth against the city's walls. 
Isaiah37:34 No! The king will return home by the way that he came. He will not come into this city.” That is what the Lord says. 
Isaiah37:35 “I will make this city safe and I will rescue it. I will do that to show that I am great. I promised my servant David that I would do it. So I will do it.” ’ 
Isaiah37:36 Then the Lord 's angel went to the camp of the Assyrian army. He killed 185,000 of their soldiers. When people got up in the morning, they saw all those dead bodies!" 
Isaiah37:37 So King Sennacherib of Assyria took his army away. He returned to Assyria and he lived in Nineveh. 
Isaiah37:38 One day, Sennacherib was worshipping his god Nisrok, in Nisrok's temple. Two of Sennacherib's sons, Adrammelech and Sharezer, went in and they killed him with their swords. Then they ran away to the region of Ararat. Sennacherib's son, Esarhaddon, now ruled Assyria as king." 
Isaiah38:1 At that time, Hezekiah became very ill. He nearly died. Then Amoz's son, Isaiah the prophet, went to Hezekiah. He said to Hezekiah, ‘This is what the Lord says: “You will soon die. You will not get better. So you must tell your family what to do after your death.” ’" 
Isaiah38:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face towards the wall and he prayed to the Lord. 
Isaiah38:3 He prayed, ‘ Lord, please remember that I have served you well. I have always obeyed you. You could trust me to do the things that you told me to do.’ Hezekiah wept very much." 
Isaiah38:4 Then the Lord said to Isaiah," 
Isaiah38:5 ‘Go and say this to Hezekiah: “This is what the Lord says, the God that your ancestor David worshipped. I have heard your prayer and I have seen your tears. So I will let you live for 15 more years." 
Isaiah38:6 I will rescue you and this city from the power of the king of Assyria. I will keep Jerusalem safe.” ’ 
Isaiah38:7 Isaiah said, ‘The Lord will do what he has promised to do for you. This is how you will know that it will really happen." 
Isaiah38:8 You can see the sun's shadow when it falls on the stairs that King Ahaz built. The Lord will cause the shadow to go back ten steps on these stairs.’ Then the shadow did go back ten steps! 
Isaiah38:9 When Hezekiah became better from his disease, he wrote this song:" 
Isaiah38:10 I thought that I might die in the middle of my life. I thought that I would go into the deep hole of death, before I had lived all the years of my life." 
Isaiah38:11 I thought, ‘I will not see the Lord again, while I live in this world. I will no longer see the people who live in the world. I will no longer live among them.’" 
Isaiah38:12 My home here has gone, as easily as they pull down a shepherd's tent. God has cut off my life, like a piece of cloth that they have just made. They cut it off and they roll it up. As quickly as day becomes night, God brings my life to an end." 
Isaiah38:13 I waited until morning would come. It seemed like God was breaking all my bones, like a lion does. As quickly as day becomes night, God brings my life to an end." 
Isaiah38:14 I cry like a swallow. I make a sad noise like a dove. My eyes are weak as I look up to heaven for help. Lord God, save me from my trouble!" 
Isaiah38:15 I do not know what I can say. The Lord has told me what must happen. He has done what he decided to do. I will live quietly for the rest of my life, because I am very sad and upset." 
Isaiah38:16 Lord God, your promises give life to people. May they give life to my spirit. Please make me well again and let me live." 
Isaiah38:17 Yes, it was good for me to have this trouble. You rescued me from the deep hole of death. You removed my sins, and you put them behind your back." 
Isaiah38:18 Dead people in their graves cannot praise you. They cannot sing to thank you. People who go down into the deep hole of death cannot trust you to help them. 
Isaiah38:19 It is those people who are alive that can thank you. And I am doing it today. Fathers tell their children that they can trust you. 
Isaiah38:20 The Lord will now save me from death. We will sing to thank the Lord in his temple. We will sing with happy music every day of our lives. 
Isaiah38:21 Isaiah had said this: ‘Take some figs to make a medicine and put it on Hezekiah's boil. Then he will get better.’ 
Isaiah38:22 Hezekiah had asked, ‘What will show me that I will be able to go up to the Lord 's temple?’" 
Isaiah39:1 At that time, Baladan's son, Merodach-Baladan, was the king of Babylon. Merodach-Baladan sent letters and a gift to Hezekiah. He had heard the news that Hezekiah had been ill, but he was now better." 
Isaiah39:2 Hezekiah was happy to meet the officers who came from the king of Babylon. Hezekiah showed them the places where he stored his valuable things. He showed them all his silver and gold things, his spices and very valuable olive oil. He also showed them all his weapons. Hezekiah showed them all his valuable things. There was nothing in his palace or in his whole kingdom that he did not show to the king of Babylon's officers." 
Isaiah39:3 Then Isaiah the prophet went to King Hezekiah. Isaiah asked the king, ‘What did those men say? Where did they come from?’ Hezekiah replied, ‘They came to me from Babylon, far away.’" 
Isaiah39:4 Isaiah asked, ‘What did they see in your palace?’ Hezekiah said, ‘They saw everything that is in my palace. I showed all my valuable things to them.’" 
Isaiah39:5 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, ‘Listen to this message from the Lord Almighty:" 
Isaiah39:6 “Understand this! One day, soldiers from Babylon will carry away all your valuable things. Everything that you and your ancestors have stored here until now will go to Babylon. They will leave nothing here." 
Isaiah39:7 Some of your own descendants will also go to Babylon. Soldiers from Babylon will take them away from here. Your descendants will become eunuchs in the king of Babylon's palace.” That is what the Lord says. ’ 
Isaiah39:8 Hezekiah said to Isaiah, ‘The Lord 's message that you have spoken to me is good.’ But he was thinking, ‘While I am still alive, people will live safely without any trouble.’" 
Isaiah40:1 Your God says, ‘ Comfort my people. Yes, comfort them." 
Isaiah40:2 Speak kindly to the people in Jerusalem. Tell them that their time of trouble has now finished. Their punishment has been enough. The Lord has made them pay for their sins. He has made them pay twice.’ 
Isaiah40:3 Somebody's voice is shouting, ‘Prepare a way in the wilderness for the Lord. Make a straight road in the desert for our God." 
Isaiah40:4 Raise up every valley, and bring down every mountain and hill. The rough ground and the ground that has rocks will become flat." 
Isaiah40:5 Then the great glory of the Lord will appear! All people will see it at the same time. The Lord himself has promised this.’ 
Isaiah40:6 A voice is saying, ‘Shout!’ But I say, ‘What should I shout?’ ‘Shout that all people are like grass. Their promises are like the flowers in a field." 
Isaiah40:7 Grass quickly dies, and flowers fall to the ground. The Lord causes this to happen, when he sends a wind to blow on them. It is true. People are like grass." 
Isaiah40:8 Grass quickly dies, and flowers fall to the ground. But God's promise will be true for ever.’" 
Isaiah40:9 Zion, you have good news to tell people! So go up onto a high mountain. Yes, Jerusalem, shout the good news! Shout aloud, and do not be afraid. Say to the towns in Judah, ‘Here is your God!’" 
Isaiah40:10 Look! The Almighty Lord is coming with power. He will use his great strength to rule the people. Look again! He is bringing his gifts with him. He brings the prize that he has won in battle. 
Isaiah40:11 He takes care of his people, like a shepherd who takes care of his sheep. He picks up the young lambs and he carries them near to his heart. He carefully leads the mother sheep that have lambs." 
Isaiah40:12 Nobody has done what God has done! He measured all the water of the seas in one hand. He used his hand to measure the whole sky. He carefully weighed the soil of the earth. He carefully weighed the mountains in his scales, and the hills too." 
Isaiah40:13 Nobody understands the mind of the Lord. Nobody can be his advisor, to tell him what he should do." 
Isaiah40:14 He does not ask anyone to be his guide. Nobody can teach him the proper way to do things. Nobody can give him knowledge. Nobody can teach him how to understand things. 
Isaiah40:15 The Lord looks at the nations as if they are a little bit of water in a bucket. They are like dust on his scales. He weighs the islands as he would weigh dust. 
Isaiah40:16 All the trees from Lebanon's forests are not enough to make a fire for his altar. All its animals are not enough to offer to him as burnt offerings. 
Isaiah40:17 All the nations in the world are not important to the Lord. He sees them as empty and useless. 
Isaiah40:18 You cannot find anyone else who is like God. There is no image that you can make to be like him. 
Isaiah40:19 A worker may use special skill to make an idol. Another worker may cover it with gold. He may use silver chains to make it beautiful. 
Isaiah40:20 A poor person may choose special wood for his idol. He chooses wood that will not quickly become spoiled. Then he finds a worker to make an idol for him. He makes it so that it will not fall over! 
Isaiah40:21 You must surely know what is true! You must have heard about it. Somebody must have told you these things from the beginning. You should have understood it all since the time that God made the earth. 
Isaiah40:22 God sits high above on his throne where the earth and the sky meet. The people on the earth seem like grasshoppers to him. He hangs out the sky like a curtain. He makes it like a tent for him to live in. 
Isaiah40:23 He takes away the power of kings. He causes the rulers of the world to be useless. 
Isaiah40:24 They are like plants that soon disappear. Somebody plants them in the ground. But while their roots are still growing into the soil, God blows on them and they become dry. Then the wind carries them away like straw." 
Isaiah40:25 The Holy God says, ‘You cannot find anyone who is like me. Nobody is the same as me.’" 
Isaiah40:26 Look up at the sky! Think about the one who made all the stars. God is the one who brought together that great army! He knows how many they are and he knows each of their names! When he calls them, each one is there, because he is so strong and powerful." 
Isaiah40:27 You Israelites, descendants of Jacob, are saying, ‘The Lord does not know about our troubles. He does not bring justice to us.’ Why do you say that?" 
Isaiah40:28 You must surely know what is true! You must have heard about it. The Lord is the God who lives for ever. He made the whole earth, near and far. He never becomes tired or weak. He knows and he understands everything." 
Isaiah40:29 He makes tired people strong again. When people have become weak, he gives them more strength." 
Isaiah40:30 Even young people become tired and weak. Even strong young men may slip and fall down. 
Isaiah40:31 But people who wait for the Lord to help them will receive new strength. They will rise up high, as if they have the wings of eagles. They will run and they will not become tired. They will walk and they will not become weak." 
Isaiah41:1 ‘You islands, be quiet as you listen to me. The nations need to come and stand in front of me. So they must be brave and speak to me. We must meet together to decide who is right." 
Isaiah41:2 Tell me, who has woken up that king in the east? Who has chosen that king to serve him? He has given that king power over many nations, so that the kings of those nations must obey him. He uses that king's weapons to destroy other nations. He blows them away like dust or straw." 
Isaiah41:3 That king chases quickly after them, and nothing hurts him. His feet do not seem to touch the ground!" 
Isaiah41:4 Tell me, who has caused these things to happen? Who has decided what should happen, from the beginning, century after century? It is I, the Lord! I was there at the beginning, and I will always be there, through to the end." 
Isaiah41:5 The people on the islands see what I am doing, and they are afraid. People all over the world shake with fear. They join together and they come near." 
Isaiah41:6 They help each other, and they say to one another, “Be strong!” ’" 
Isaiah41:7 The man who makes things with wood speaks to the man who works with gold and the man who works with iron. They help each other to work well. They say, ‘We have done a good job.’ Then they use nails to fix the idol that they have made, so that it does not fall over!" 
Isaiah41:8 ‘But you, Israel, are my servant. Yes, I have chosen you, descendants of Jacob. You are descendants of my friend, Abraham." 
Isaiah41:9 I led you back from the ends of the earth. I called you to come from places far away. I have said to you, “You are my servant. I have chosen you. I have not thrown you away." 
Isaiah41:10 I am with you, so do not be afraid. I am your God, so do not be upset. I will make you strong and I will help you. My powerful right hand will keep you safe.”" 
Isaiah41:11 Listen to this! Everyone who has been angry with you will now become completely ashamed. Those who have attacked you will disappear and die. 
Isaiah41:12 Even if you look for your enemies, you will not find them. They will all disappear!" 
Isaiah41:13 Yes, I am the Lord, your God. I will hold on to your right hand. I say to you, “Do not be afraid. I will help you.”" 
Isaiah41:14 Do not be afraid, you Israelites, descendants of Jacob. You may seem unimportant, like a worm, but I myself will help you.’ That is what the Lord says. He is your Redeemer, the Holy God of Israel." 
Isaiah41:15 ‘Look at this! I will cause you to destroy your enemies, like a heavy weight that threshes grain. You will have new sharp metal points that are like teeth. You will thresh the mountains and you will break them into pieces. You will make the hills become like straw." 
Isaiah41:16 You will throw them into the air, and the wind will blow them away in all directions! You will be happy with what the Lord has done for you. You will boast that the Holy God of Israel is your God." 
Isaiah41:17 Poor and helpless people look for water to drink, but there is none. They are so thirsty that their tongues are dry. But I, the Lord, will answer their prayers. I, the God of Israel, will not leave them alone." 
Isaiah41:18 I will make rivers run over the dry hills. I will make springs of water in the valleys. I will make pools of water in the desert. The dry land will become a place of streams. 
Isaiah41:19 Many trees will grow in the wilderness. Cedar, acacia, myrtle and olive trees will grow there. In the dry valleys there will be pine, fir and cypress trees." 
Isaiah41:20 I will do this so that people see it happen. They will watch carefully and they will understand. They will know that the Lord 's power has caused it to happen. They will know that the Holy God of Israel has created it.’ 
Isaiah41:21 The Lord, Israel's King, says, ‘Come and show me what you can do! Tell me clearly what power you have!" 
Isaiah41:22 Bring your idols into court. Let them tell us what will happen in future years. Let them tell us what happened in the past. Then we can think about those things. We will understand what happened in the end. Or ask them to tell us about future events! 
Isaiah41:23 If they can tell us what will happen in future years, we will know that they really are gods. Tell them to do something, a good thing or a bad thing. That would really surprise us, or even frighten us!" 
Isaiah41:24 But no! Your idols are useless. There is nothing that they can do. Anybody who chooses to worship them has turned against God! 
Isaiah41:25 I have woken up a ruler, who is coming with his army from the north. He comes from a land in the east, where the sun rises, and he will use my name to call to me. He will walk over rulers of other nations as if they are mud. He will push them down with his feet, like a potter who prepares his clay." 
Isaiah41:26 Tell me, who decided in the beginning, that all these things must happen? Who told us about them before they happened? Then we could say, “He was right!” None of your idols said anything about it! Nobody heard them say a word!" 
Isaiah41:27 I, the Lord, was the first person to tell the good news to Zion. I sent someone to Jerusalem to say, “Look, they have arrived!”" 
Isaiah41:28 I looked among your idols, to see who might be a good advisor. But none of them could help. None of them could answer my questions." 
Isaiah41:29 Look! All the idols are useless. They can do nothing. Their images are as weak as a breath of wind.’ 
Isaiah42:1 ‘Here is my servant. I give him strength. I have chosen him. He makes me very happy. I have put my Spirit on him. He will bring justice to the nations. 
Isaiah42:2 He will not cry out. He will not shout. He will not speak loudly in the streets. 
Isaiah42:3 He will not hurt weak people, like someone who breaks a weak reed. He will not destroy helpless people, like someone who puts out a weak flame. He will be kind to people, and he will judge them in a fair way." 
Isaiah42:4 He will remain strong and brave, until he brings justice to the whole world. People who are in lands far away will wait for him to teach them.’" 
Isaiah42:5 The Lord is God. He is the God who created the sky. He hung it up like a curtain. He created the earth and everything that lives on it. He gives life and breath to all the people who live on it. The Lord says to his servant: 
Isaiah42:6 ‘I have chosen you to bring righteousness. I will take hold of your hand, and I will keep you safe. Through you, I will make a covenant with my people, and you will bring light to the other nations." 
Isaiah42:7 You will cause blind people to see. You will cause prisoners to be free. You will bring out into the open people who sit in dark prisons. 
Isaiah42:8 I am the Lord. That is my name. I will not let anyone else share my glory. I will not let people praise idols. I am the only one that they must praise. 
Isaiah42:9 Everything that I promised in the past has happened as I said that it would happen. Now I will tell you about new things. Before they start to happen, I will tell you about them.’" 
Isaiah42:10 Sing a new song to the Lord! All over the earth, people should praise him. Praise him, you people who travel over the sea and everything that lives in the sea. Praise him, you people who live in lands far away." 
Isaiah42:11 People who live in the towns of the desert should shout aloud to praise him. Kedar's people should praise him in the places where they live. The people who live in Sela should sing aloud with joy. They should shout from the tops of the mountains. 
Isaiah42:12 They should all give honour to the Lord as he deserves. Those who live in lands far away should praise him for what he has done. 
Isaiah42:13 The Lord marches out to battle, like a brave soldier. He is angry with his enemies, and he is ready to attack them. He shouts loudly as he attacks, and he shows his power over them." 
Isaiah42:14 The Lord says, ‘I have been quiet for a long time. I have held back my anger. But now I am ready to deliver! I will cry out and breathe loudly, like a woman who is ready to give birth." 
Isaiah42:15 I will destroy the mountains and the hills. I will cause the plants that grow on them to die. I will cause the rivers to become dry islands. I will cause the pools of water to become dry. 
Isaiah42:16 I will lead my blind people along ways that they did not know before. I will be their guide, as they walk along paths that are new to them. I will change the dark places that are in front of them, so that they become places with light. And I will cause the rough ground to become flat. Those are the things that I will do for them. I will not leave my people alone." 
Isaiah42:17 But I will push away people who trust idols to help them. Those people will become ashamed. They say to images that they have made, “You are our gods.”" 
Isaiah42:18 Listen to me, you deaf people! Look at this, you blind people!" 
Isaiah42:19 Who is blind? Nobody is as blind as my servant. Who is deaf? Nobody is as deaf as the one who takes my message. The people that I agreed a covenant with are blind! Yes, the servant of the Lord is truly blind!" 
Isaiah42:20 You Israelites have seen many things, but you do not understand them. You have opened your ears to listen, but you have not really heard anything.’" 
Isaiah42:21 The Lord always does what is right. So he has made his Law great and important. He is happy when people respect his Law. 
Isaiah42:22 But enemies have robbed God's people and they have taken away all their valuable things. Their enemies have caught them in traps and they have made them prisoners. There is nobody who will rescue them. Their enemies have stored them safely, and nobody says, ‘Send them back.’" 
Isaiah42:23 Will any of you listen to my message? Will you think carefully about it in the future? 
Isaiah42:24 Who put Jacob's descendants under the power of their enemies? Who gave the Israelites to people who would rob them? It was the Lord! He is the one that we have not obeyed. His people did not live in the way that he wanted. They did not obey his Law. 
Isaiah42:25 So the Lord was very angry with them. He punished them with a cruel war. His anger was like a fire all around them, but they did not understand what he was doing. His anger burned them, but they did not learn their lesson." 
Isaiah43:1 Israelites, descendants of Jacob, the Lord created you, and he made you who you are. Now he says this to you: ‘Do not be afraid, I have rescued you so that you belong to me. I have called you by your name, so now you are mine." 
Isaiah43:2 When you go through deep water, I will be with you. When you go across dangerous rivers, you will not drown. When you walk through fire, it will not burn you. The flames will not destroy you." 
Isaiah43:3 I am the Lord, your God, so I will rescue you. I am Israel's Holy God, your Saviour. I gave Egypt as the price to buy you back. I gave Ethiopia and Seba to their enemies, so that you could be free." 
Isaiah43:4 You are very valuable to me. You are my special people, and I love you. So I will give other people to their enemies, to keep your lives safe. Other nations will pay the price, instead of you." 
Isaiah43:5 I am with you, so do not be afraid. I will bring your descendants from the east. I will also bring you together from the west." 
Isaiah43:6 I will say to people in the north, “Give them back!” And I will say to people in the south, “Do not stop them!” Bring my sons from places that are far away. Bring my daughters from the ends of the earth." 
Isaiah43:7 Bring back everyone who belongs to me. I created them, so that they would bring honour to me. I made them who they are. Yes, I made them!" 
Isaiah43:8 So bring the people to me. They have eyes, but they are blind! They have ears, but they are deaf!" 
Isaiah43:9 Tell the people of all nations to come together. Did any of their gods tell us what would happen? If anyone heard them speak the truth, they should bring those people to this court. Then they can tell us that they were right. People could say, “They spoke the truth.” ’" 
Isaiah43:10 The Lord says to his people, ‘You are the people who must say that I am right. I have chosen you as my servant. I chose you so that you may know me, and also believe in me. Then you would understand that I am the true God. There has never been any other god except me, and there never will be." 
Isaiah43:11 I am the Lord, I alone. There is no other saviour, except me." 
Isaiah43:12 I promised to save you, and I did what I said I would do. I told everyone what I had done. There was no foreign god among you, who did that for you. So you are the people who must say that I am the only true God.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Isaiah43:13 ‘Today and every day, I am God. If I hold you in my hand, nobody can take you away from my power. When I do something, nobody can change it.’" 
Isaiah43:14 The Lord is your Redeemer, Israel's Holy God. He says this: ‘I will send an army to attack Babylon, so that you, my people, will be safe. I will cause all the Babylonians to run away. They were proud of their great ships, but now they will use them to escape from their enemies." 
Isaiah43:15 I am the Lord, your Holy God. I am the one who created Israel. I am your King.’" 
Isaiah43:16 The Lord is the one who made a road through the sea for you. You went on a dry path through the middle of the deep water. 
Isaiah43:17 He led the enemy's great army, with their chariots and their horses, to chase you. They all fell down and the water drowned them. Their lives finished, like the flame of a lamp that stops burning." 
Isaiah43:18 The Lord did all that for you, but now he says, ‘Forget those things that happened a long time ago. Do not think about past events." 
Isaiah43:19 Look! Now I will do something that is new! It is already beginning to happen. Surely, you can recognize it. Yes, I will make a road through the desert. I will make streams in the wilderness." 
Isaiah43:20 The wild animals in the desert praise me. The jackals and the owls praise me. They praise me because I put water in the desert, and streams in the wilderness. I am giving water to the people that I have chosen, so that they will not be thirsty." 
Isaiah43:21 They are the people that I made for myself, so that they would praise me aloud." 
Isaiah43:22 But you Israelites, Jacob's descendants, you did not call to me to help you. You became tired of serving me." 
Isaiah43:23 You did not bring sheep to me as burnt offerings. You did not make sacrifices to me, to show that you respect me. I did not make it difficult for you, when I asked you to bring offerings to me. When I asked you to burn incense to worship me, that should not have made you tired." 
Isaiah43:24 You did not buy any spices to offer them to me. You did not bring me the fat from your sacrifices to make me happy. Instead, you have made it difficult for me, because of all your sins. All the evil things that you do have caused me to become very tired." 
Isaiah43:25 But I am the one who removes your sins when you do not obey me. I, the Lord, do that, because of who I am. I do not keep your sins in my mind." 
Isaiah43:26 So let us talk together about what has happened. Show me why you think that you are right! 
Isaiah43:27 Your first ancestor did not obey me. Your leaders and teachers turned against me. 
Isaiah43:28 So I caused the priests of your temple to become ashamed. I caused enemies to destroy Israel. I let them insult Jacob's descendants.’ 
Isaiah44:1 ‘Israelites, Jacob's descendants, listen to me! I have chosen you to be my servant.’" 
Isaiah44:2 The Lord created you. Before you were born, he was already taking care of you. He will continue to help you. He says to you, ‘Do not be afraid, my servant, Jacob. I call you “Jeshurun”, and I have chosen you to belong to me." 
Isaiah44:3 I will pour water onto land that is thirsty. I will pour streams of water on the dry ground. I will pour out my Spirit on your descendants, and I will bless them." 
Isaiah44:4 They will grow up like fresh grass in a field. They will grow like willow trees beside a river. 
Isaiah44:5 Someone will say, “I belong to the Lord.” Another person will call himself by the name “Jacob”. Someone else will write on his hand, “I belong to the Lord ”, and he will call himself “Israel”.’" 
Isaiah44:6 The Lord is Israel's King and Redeemer. He is the Lord Almighty. He says, ‘I am the first and I am the last. There is no God, except me." 
Isaiah44:7 Is there anyone like me? If there is, he should say so! He must tell me why he thinks he is so great. Long ago I made my people become a nation. Let him say what he has done since then! Let him tell us what will happen in future years!" 
Isaiah44:8 My people, do not shake with fear. Long ago I told you about things that would happen. You can tell people the truth about me. You know that I am the only true God. There is no other Rock to keep you safe. There surely is no other God except me.’" 
Isaiah44:9 All the people who make idols are fools. The images which make them so happy are useless. Those who worship idols cannot see the truth. They do not understand what they are doing, and they will be ashamed." 
Isaiah44:10 Only a fool makes an idol and thinks that it is his god. An image cannot help him. 
Isaiah44:11 Those who work with him will all be ashamed. Those workers with special skills are only human. They should come together, and they should stand in front of me. That will make them very frightened. They will realize how foolish they are!" 
Isaiah44:12 This is how they make their idols: A man who works with iron takes his tool. He makes the metal hot in the fire. Then he uses hammers to hit it with his strong arms. He hits it so that it has the right shape. But then he becomes hungry. He is too weak to work any more. He does not drink any water and so he feels tired. 
Isaiah44:13 A carpenter measures a piece of wood. Then he draws a shape for the image. He uses his tools to cut the wood. He carefully makes it have the right shape. He makes the image have the shape of a human. It looks like a beautiful person. Now it is ready to go in its special room. 
Isaiah44:14 He may cut down cedar trees to make something. He may cut down a cypress tree, or an oak tree. He takes these trees from the forest. Or he may plant his own pine tree, so that the rain helps it to grow well." 
Isaiah44:15 He uses some of the wood to burn. He makes himself warm beside the fire. He may light a fire and then he may bake bread on it. Then he uses some of the wood to make a god that he will worship! Yes, he makes an idol, and he bends down in front of it." 
Isaiah44:16 Half of the wood he burns in the fire. He uses it to cook his meat, and he eats plenty of food. He makes himself warm and he says, ‘Good! Now I am warm as I look at the fire.’" 
Isaiah44:17 He uses the rest of the wood to make an idol to be his god. He bends down in front of it and he worships it. He prays to it and he says, ‘Save me, because you are my god!’" 
Isaiah44:18 People like that are stupid. They do not understand anything. They cannot see the truth, as if they are blind. Their minds cannot think properly." 
Isaiah44:19 None of them think carefully about what they are doing. They do not say to themselves, ‘I burned half of the wood in the fire. I even baked bread and I cooked meat on it. It gave me food to eat. Then I used the rest of the wood to make a useless idol! I took a piece of wood and I worshipped it! Why did I do that?’" 
Isaiah44:20 Someone like that is stupid enough to eat ashes. His mind has deceived him. He cannot save himself from his lies. He will not say to himself, ‘This thing that I hold in my right hand is completely false!’" 
Isaiah44:21 The Lord says: ‘Jacob's descendants, remember these things, because you, Israel, are my servant. I created you to be my servant. Israel, I will not forget you." 
Isaiah44:22 I have removed the guilt of your sins, like the wind blows away a cloud. When you turned against me, I have quickly forgiven you. Return to me now, because I have rescued you.’" 
Isaiah44:23 Sing aloud with joy, you heavens above us, because the Lord has done it! Shout as loudly as you can, places deep below the earth. You mountains, sing with joy, and you forests and trees as well! Be happy, because the Lord has redeemed his people. He has rescued the Israelites, Jacob's descendants, to show how great he is." 
Isaiah44:24 The Lord is your Redeemer. He took care of you before you were born. He says, ‘I am the Lord. I made everything. I alone hung up the sky like a curtain. I made the whole earth by myself." 
Isaiah44:25 I show that the false prophets speak useless messages. I show that those who use magic to say what will happen are fools. I cause the ideas of wise people to become useless. People think that their advice is foolish. 
Isaiah44:26 But I do the things that my servants say will happen. I show that my prophets' messages are true. I say about Jerusalem, “People will live there again.” I say about the towns in Judah, “I will cause people to build them again, so that they are no longer heaps of stones.”" 
Isaiah44:27 I say to the deep sea, “Become dry!” and its streams become dry." 
Isaiah44:28 I say about King Cyrus, “He is my shepherd. He will do what I want him to do.” He will give a command about Jerusalem. He will say, “Build the city again!” He will say about the temple, “Build its foundation.” ’" 
Isaiah45:1 The Lord says this to Cyrus, the king that he has chosen to serve him: ‘I hold your right hand. I give you power over other nations, to take away the weapons of their kings. I will open the gates of cities in front of you, and they will stay open." 
Isaiah45:2 I will go in front of you, and I will make the mountains flat. I will break bronze gates into pieces, and I will cut through iron bars." 
Isaiah45:3 I will take valuable things that people have stored in secret places, and I will give them to you. Then you will know that I am the Lord, Israel's God. I am the one who calls you by your name." 
Isaiah45:4 I have called you on behalf of my people, to help my servant Jacob's descendants. They are Israel's people, that I have chosen for myself. You do not know me as your God, but I have given to you an important name." 
Isaiah45:5 I am the Lord and there is nobody else like me. There is no other God, except me. You do not know me as your God, but I will make you strong to fight battles." 
Isaiah45:6 Then all over the world, from east to west, people will know that there is no other God. Yes, I am the Lord and there is nobody else like me." 
Isaiah45:7 I make light and I also make darkness. I make peace as well as trouble. I am the Lord. I do all these things. 
Isaiah45:8 Let justice pour down from the sky like rain! Let the earth be ready to receive it! Then salvation and righteousness will grow together, like strong plants. I am the Lord, and I will cause it to happen.’" 
Isaiah45:9 It will be very bad for people who argue with their Maker. They are like pieces of a pot that are lying on the ground among all the other pieces. The clay does not say to the potter, ‘What do you think you are making?’ The pot does not say to the potter, ‘Your work is useless!’" 
Isaiah45:10 It will be very bad for people who say to their fathers, ‘What kind of child have you become a father to?’ And it will be bad for people who say to their mothers, ‘What kind of baby are you giving birth to?’" 
Isaiah45:11 The Lord is Israel's Holy God. He is the one who created Israel. He says this about the things that will happen: ‘You should not ask me questions about my children. You should not tell me what to do with the people that I have made 
Isaiah45:12 It is I who made the earth. I created the people who live on it. I hung up the sky like a curtain. I did that with my own hands! I put all the stars in their places. 
Isaiah45:13 Now I have woken up Cyrus to do for me things that are right. I will make all his paths easy to travel on. He will build again my city, and he will make my people free to return home. Nobody will have to pay him any money or give him a bribe to do that.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Isaiah45:14 This is what the Lord says to his people: ‘I promise you that you will rule Egypt and Ethiopia, and also those tall people from Seba. They will bring to you the things that they buy and sell. Those valuable things will belong to you. They will walk behind you in chains, as your slaves. They will bend down low in front of you, and they will even pray to you. They will agree, “Surely God is with you. There is nobody else like him. There is no other God.” ’" 
Isaiah45:15 Yes, you are a God who hides yourself! You are Israel's God, our Saviour!" 
Isaiah45:16 People who make idols will all become ashamed. People will insult them as they leave together. 
Isaiah45:17 The Lord will make Israel safe. Israel will be safe and free for ever. You will never be ashamed again. People will never insult you again. 
Isaiah45:18 The Lord created the heavens. He is the true God. He created the earth and he put it in its place. He built it to be strong. He did not create it as an empty place. He made it for people to live there. He says, ‘I am the Lord. There is nobody else who is like me." 
Isaiah45:19 I have not spoken secretly as I hid in a dark place. I did not say to Jacob's descendants, “Look for me, but you will not find me.” I am the Lord. I speak what is right. My message is true." 
Isaiah45:20 So come, you people of the nations, you who have escaped from war. Bring yourselves in front of me together! People who carry wooden idols are fools! They pray to gods who cannot rescue them." 
Isaiah45:21 Now decide together what you will say in court! Tell me what you think! Who said a long time ago what would happen? Who spoke about it long before it happened? It was I, the Lord! There is nobody else like me. There is no other God, except me. I am a righteous God and I save my people. There is no other God." 
Isaiah45:22 So turn to me and I will make you safe. I say that to everybody all over the world. Turn to me, because I am God. There is nobody else like me." 
Isaiah45:23 This is my promise that I say is true. I have spoken it honestly and I will not change it. I promise this: Everybody will go down on their knees in front of me. Everybody will promise to serve me. 
Isaiah45:24 They will all say this about me: “The Lord alone is true and strong.” ’ Everybody who has been angry with God will come to him. They will be ashamed that they were angry. 
Isaiah45:25 The Lord will bring justice for all the descendants of Israel. They will say that the Lord is great! 
Isaiah46:1 Bel bends down to the ground. Nebo lies down low. Their images are heavy loads on the backs of animals. The animals become tired and weak as they carry them away. 
Isaiah46:2 Those gods fall down and they lie together on the ground! They have no power to rescue their images. The gods themselves go as prisoners to a foreign land, together with their images." 
Isaiah46:3 The Lord says, ‘Listen to me, you family of Jacob. Yes, listen to me, all you Israelites who are still alive. I have taken care of you since you first became a nation. I have carried you since you were born." 
Isaiah46:4 I will continue to take care of you until you are old, until your hair becomes grey. I made you who you are, and I will supply everything that you need. I will carry you, and I will save you." 
Isaiah46:5 You know that there is no God like me! You cannot say about any god, that he is the same as me." 
Isaiah46:6 Some people make idols for themselves. They pour out gold coins from their purse. They weigh silver on their scales. They pay a worker with special skill to use the silver and the gold to make a god. Then they bend down low in front of it, and they worship it!" 
Isaiah46:7 They lift the idol onto their shoulders and they carry it home. They put it in its place and it stands there. It cannot move anywhere else. If someone calls out to it for help, it does not answer. It cannot save anyone from their trouble." 
Isaiah46:8 Remember this, you people who do not obey me. Think about it carefully." 
Isaiah46:9 Remember all the things that I did a long time ago. I am God. There is nobody else like me. There is no other God, except me." 
Isaiah46:10 From the beginning, I say what will happen at the end. Long ago, I spoke about future things that have not yet happened. I say this: “My purpose will not change. I will do everything that I want to do.”" 
Isaiah46:11 Now I will call somebody to come from the east. He will come down quickly, like an eagle that catches small birds to eat. He will come from a country that is far away. He will do for me what I want to do. Yes, I will surely do what I have decided to do. I have given the command, and I will cause it to happen." 
Isaiah46:12 Listen to me, you people who refuse to obey me. You choose not to do anything that is right." 
Isaiah46:13 But now I am ready to rescue you, and I will show you what is right. This will soon happen! I will save the people in Zion. I will make Israel great and beautiful.’" 
Isaiah47:1 ‘Babylon, get down on the ground, and sit in the dirt! Come down off your throne, young lady! In the past, nobody has touched you, but people will no longer say that you are so pretty." 
Isaiah47:2 Use heavy stones to make grain into flour. Take the veil off your face. Lift up your skirt. Walk through streams of water with bare legs. 
Isaiah47:3 Stand there with your body completely bare! Everybody will see your great shame. I will punish you for your sins, and nobody will escape.’" 
Isaiah47:4 This is what the Lord Almighty says. He is our Redeemer, Israel's Holy God." 
Isaiah47:5 ‘You city of the Babylonians, sit there quietly! Go and hide in a dark place. People will no longer call you the queen of all kingdoms." 
Isaiah47:6 I was angry with my own people. They belonged to me as my special people, but I punished them like ordinary people. I gave you the power to hurt them, and you were not kind to them. You were very cruel to old people." 
Isaiah47:7 You boasted, “I will rule other nations as queen for ever!” But you did not think about what you were doing. You did not think about what would happen in the end." 
Isaiah47:8 So listen to me, Babylon! You love to enjoy expensive things. You think that you are strong and safe. You say to yourself, “Here I am! There is nobody as good as I am. I will never be alone as a widow. I will never lose my children.”" 
Isaiah47:9 But both of those things will happen to you! They will happen suddenly, in only one day. You will lose your children and you will become a widow. All these troubles will come to hurt you. You can use all your powerful magic but you will not stop this trouble!" 
Isaiah47:10 You have done many wicked things, and you thought that you would be safe. You said, “Nobody sees me!” You think that you are very wise and that you know everything. But your wisdom has deceived you. You say, “Here I am! There is nobody as good as I am.”" 
Isaiah47:11 But trouble will suddenly come to you. Your magic words will not stop it. Trouble will come and destroy you. You cannot pay anyone to take it away. It will suddenly hit you, before you even recognize it." 
Isaiah47:12 So continue with your magic, if you want to. Say your magic words. You have always used that magic, since you were young. Perhaps your magic will help you. Perhaps you will frighten your enemies!" 
Isaiah47:13 You receive a lot of advice, and it has made you become tired. Let your advisors come and stand there. They study the sky and the stars to decide what will happen. They say what will happen each month. So let them come and help you! See if they can rescue you from the trouble that is coming!" 
Isaiah47:14 But they are as useless as straw that quickly burns in a fire. They cannot save themselves, because the fire is too hot! This is not a nice fire to sit beside and enjoy the heat." 
Isaiah47:15 You have worked with those magicians since you were young, but you will have no help from them now. They have gone their own separate ways. There is nobody left who can save you.’" 
Isaiah48:1 Listen to this, family of Jacob. You are called ‘Israel’, and you are Judah's descendants. You use the name of the Lord when you make promises. You pray to Israel's God. But you do not do those things honestly and fairly." 
Isaiah48:2 Your people are proud to say that they live in the holy city. They trust in Israel's God, whose name is the Lord Almighty." 
Isaiah48:3 The Lord says to his people, ‘I already spoke about things that would happen at a future time. A long time ago I told you what would happen. Then I suddenly did my work, and I caused those things to happen!" 
Isaiah48:4 I did it because I know what you are like. You refuse to obey me. You do not want to change the way that you live. Your neck is like iron and it will not bend! Your head is as hard as bronze! 
Isaiah48:5 So I told you about these things a long time ago. Before they happened, I told you about them. Then you could not say, “My idol did them. Yes, my wooden image and my idol made of metal decided that these things would happen.”" 
Isaiah48:6 You heard what I said would happen, and now you have seen it happen. Agree that what I say is true! Now I will tell you about new things that will happen. They are secret things that you do not yet know about." 
Isaiah48:7 They are not things that started long ago. I am causing them to happen now. You did not hear about them before today. So you cannot say, “Yes, I already knew about them.”" 
Isaiah48:8 You have not heard about them before. You know nothing about them. From long ago you refused to listen to me. I know that you are never honest. Since you first became a nation, you have refused to obey me." 
Isaiah48:9 Because of who I am, I will keep my anger until later. I will not destroy you now, so that people will praise my name." 
Isaiah48:10 Listen! I have made you pure. But I have not done it in the way that people make silver pure. Instead, I have sent pain and trouble to you. That is how I make you pure." 
Isaiah48:11 I do these things to show who I am. That is why I do it! I will not let people insult my good name. I will not let anyone else share my glory. 
Isaiah48:12 So listen to me, descendants of Jacob! I called you to belong to me, you Israelite people. I am the only One. I am the first, and I am also the last." 
Isaiah48:13 I created the earth with my own hand. With my right hand, I hung up the sky like a curtain. When I call to the stars, they all appear in their places." 
Isaiah48:14 All of you, come together and listen to me. Not one of your idols has said what will happen now. I, the Lord, have chosen a friend to attack Babylon. He will do what I want. He will have the power to punish the Babylonians." 
Isaiah48:15 Yes, that is what I have commanded. I have called him to do this work. I have shown him what he must do, and he will do it!" 
Isaiah48:16 Come near to me! Listen to my message! From the beginning, I have not spoken secretly. When these things happen, I will already be there.’ Now the Almighty Lord has sent me, with the power of his Spirit." 
Isaiah48:17 The Lord is your Redeemer, Israel's Holy God. He says, ‘I am the Lord your God. I teach you what will be good for you. I lead you along a good path in life." 
Isaiah48:18 You should have obeyed my commands. Then you would have had peace in your lives, like a river that runs quietly. You would have been safe and well, like the strong waves in the sea." 
Isaiah48:19 You would have had many descendants, as much as the sand on the shore of the sea. I would not need to destroy them. Their family name would continue for ever.’" 
Isaiah48:20 Now leave Babylon as free people! No longer serve the Babylonians! Shout the news with joy! Tell everyone about it, all over the world. Tell them that the Lord has redeemed his people, his servants, the Israelites." 
Isaiah48:21 When he led them through the desert, they did not become thirsty. He broke open a rock for them, so that water poured out. They could drink as much as they needed." 
Isaiah48:22 But the Lord says, ‘ Wicked people will have no peace in their lives.’" 
Isaiah49:1 Listen to me, you islands. Listen carefully, you people who live far away. The Lord called me to serve him before I was born. Before my mother gave birth, he used my name to speak to me." 
Isaiah49:2 The message that he gave me to speak was like a sharp sword. He kept me safe in his hand. He made me like a sharp arrow that he keeps safe and ready to use. 
Isaiah49:3 He said to me, ‘You are my servant, Israel. Because of you, I will cause people to know that I am great.’" 
Isaiah49:4 I said, ‘My work has been useless. I have worked hard with no results.’ But the Lord will do what is right for me. He will give me what I deserve for my work." 
Isaiah49:5 The Lord chose me to be his servant, even before I was born. He chose me to bring Jacob's descendants back to himself. He chose me to bring Israel's people together to serve him. As a result, the Lord will give me honour. He is the one who makes me strong. The Lord, my God, says," 
Isaiah49:6 ‘I have a greater job for you to do as my servant. It will not only be to make Jacob's tribes strong again. It will not only be to bring back Israel's people that I have kept safe. It will also be your job to bring light to the other nations. You will show people all over the world that I have the power to save them.’ 
Isaiah49:7 The Lord is Israel's Redeemer, their Holy God. Nations refuse to accept his servant. Their people hate him and their rulers have made him their slave. The Lord says to his servant, ‘Kings will see you and they will rise up to respect you. Princes will bend down low in front of you. They will see that the Lord is faithful. He is Israel's Holy God, who has chosen you to serve him.’" 
Isaiah49:8 This is what the Lord says: ‘I will answer your prayers at the time that I have chosen to help you. Yes, I will come to save you on that day. I will keep you safe, so that I can make a covenant with people through you. You will make the land safe again. People will return to live there, in places that had become empty." 
Isaiah49:9 You will say to the prisoners, “Come out!” You will say to people who are in dark prisons, “Come outside!” Then they will be free to find food for themselves. They will eat along the road and on the tops of the hills." 
Isaiah49:10 They will not be hungry or thirsty. The strong heat of the sun will not hurt them. The one who loves them will be their guide. He will lead them to drink from springs of water. 
Isaiah49:11 I will make all my mountains become roads. I will build good roads for my people to travel on. 
Isaiah49:12 Look! People will return to the land from places that are far away. Yes, some of them will come from the north and from the west. And some will come from the land of Sinim.’" 
Isaiah49:13 Shout with joy, everything in the sky! Be happy, everything on the earth! Sing loudly, you mountains! Be happy, because the Lord comforts his people. He will be kind to his people who are suffering." 
Isaiah49:14 But Zion's people said, ‘The Lord has left us alone. The Lord God has forgotten about us.’" 
Isaiah49:15 The Lord replies, ‘Can a mother forget the baby who drinks milk at her breast? Can she refuse to be kind to the child that she has given birth to? Perhaps those mothers might forget their children. But I would not ever forget you, Zion." 
Isaiah49:16 Look! I have written your name on my own hand. I always see the walls of your city in my mind. 
Isaiah49:17 Your children will hurry back to you, to build you again. The enemies who destroyed you will go away." 
Isaiah49:18 Look all around you! See all your people as they return together.’ The Lord says, ‘I tell you clearly, as the God who lives, you will be happy with your people. They will make you beautiful again, like a bride with her beautiful jewels." 
Isaiah49:19 Enemies have destroyed your land. Its towns have become heaps of stones. But soon your land will be too small for all your people to live in. The enemies who destroyed you will be far away from you. 
Isaiah49:20 The children who were born in a foreign land will return to you. You will hear them say, “This place is too small for us. Find more room for us to live in.”" 
Isaiah49:21 Then you will think, “Who gave me all these children? Who is their father? I was alone, with no husband. They killed my children or they took them away to a foreign land. I could no longer give birth. So where did all these children come from?” ’" 
Isaiah49:22 The Almighty Lord says, ‘Look! I will lift up my hand, to call the nations. I will raise up a flag as a sign to those people. Then they will bring back your sons and your daughters. They will carry them in their arms and on their shoulders." 
Isaiah49:23 The kings of those nations will take care of your children. The kings' daughters will feed them. The rulers will bend down low in front of you, so that their faces touch the ground. They will taste the dirt by your feet. Then you will know that I am the Lord. People who wait for me to help them will not become disappointed." 
Isaiah49:24 Can anyone rob a brave soldier? Can anyone rescue prisoners from a cruel ruler?’ 
Isaiah49:25 But the Lord says, ‘Yes! One day the brave soldier's prisoners will be free. One day the cruel ruler will lose the valuable things that he has taken for himself. I myself will fight against your enemies. I will rescue your children." 
Isaiah49:26 I will cause your cruel enemies to destroy themselves. There will be so much blood that it will seem like wine. They will seem like people who have become drunk. Then people everywhere will recognize that I am the Lord. They will know that I am your Saviour and your Redeemer, and I am the Mighty One of Jacob.’" 
Isaiah50:1 This is what the Lord says to his people: ‘Did I send your mother away, like a man sends away his wife? Where is the paper to say why I have sent her away? Did I sell you to pay people that I was in debt to? Where is the paper that shows the reason for my debt? Listen! I sold you because of your sins. I sent your mother away because you have not obeyed me." 
Isaiah50:2 Nobody was there to meet me, when I came to help you. When I called out to you, nobody answered me. Do you think that my arm is too weak to rescue you? Am I not strong enough to save you? Look! I can speak to the sea so that it becomes dry! I can cause rivers to become deserts. Then the fish die because they have no water." 
Isaiah50:3 I can cause the sky to become dark, as if I have covered it with sackcloth.’" 
Isaiah50:4 ‘The Almighty Lord has given his message to me, his servant. I speak it on his behalf. I know what to say to help weak and tired people. The Lord wakes me up every morning so that I can learn something. I listen carefully to him, as a student listens to his teacher." 
Isaiah50:5 The Almighty Lord has spoken clearly to me. I have accepted his message, and I have not turned back." 
Isaiah50:6 I offered my back to the people who hit me. I offered my face to the people who pulled out my beard. When they insulted me and they spat at me, I did not hide my face from them." 
Isaiah50:7 The Almighty Lord helps me, so I will not be ashamed. I have decided to stand and be strong, because I know that I will not be ashamed." 
Isaiah50:8 God is the one who says that I am right, and he stands beside me. So who will accuse me that I have done something wrong? We should meet in court! Anyone who accuses me should come and speak!" 
Isaiah50:9 Look! The Almighty Lord himself helps me. So nobody can say that I am guilty. All the people who accuse me will soon disappear. They will spoil like old clothes that moths have eaten!’ 
Isaiah50:10 Do any of you respect the Lord with fear? Do any of you obey his servant's message? Are you walking in a place that is completely dark, where there is no light? Then you should trust in the Lord as the God who will help you." 
Isaiah50:11 But no! You have lit your own fires. You have burned branches to give yourselves light. So now you must walk in the light of the fires that you have lit. And this is what I will do for you: I will punish you with great pain! 
Isaiah51:1 ‘Listen to me, you people who want to do what is right. You people who want to serve the Lord, listen to me! Think about the rock that you are a part of. Think about the ground that they dug you out from." 
Isaiah51:2 You all started from your ancestor Abraham, and his wife Sarah. When I first spoke to Abraham, he had no children. But I blessed him, so that he had many descendants.’" 
Isaiah51:3 Surely, the Lord will comfort Zion's people. He will take care of the buildings that enemies have destroyed. Zion's land that is now a wilderness will become like the beautiful Garden of Eden. It will be the Lord 's own garden! People will be happy again in Zion. They will sing with joy to thank God." 
Isaiah51:4 ‘Listen to me, my people. Listen carefully, my nation. I will tell all people about my laws. I will cause my justice to be like a light to all nations." 
Isaiah51:5 I am ready to do what is right for them. I am ready to save them. I will judge all the nations fairly. Lands that are far away will wait for me to help them. They wait for me to come and rule them all with power. 
Isaiah51:6 Look up at the sky! Look down at the earth below! One day, the sky will disappear like smoke that blows away. The earth will become useless, like old clothes. The people who live on it will die. They will fall like flies. But I will keep my people safe for ever. I will always rule with righteousness." 
Isaiah51:7 Listen to me, you people who know what is right. You people who think carefully about my Law, listen to me. When people speak against you, do not be afraid. Do not be upset, when they insult you." 
Isaiah51:8 Those people will soon disappear, like clothes that moths have eaten, like wool that worms have eaten. But I will always rule with righteousness. I will keep my people safe for ever.’" 
Isaiah51:9 Wake up, Lord! Get ready to show your strength! Do great things, as you did in past days, when our ancestors were alive. Remember how you cut the monster, Rahab, into pieces." 
Isaiah51:10 You made the sea become dry, so that there was a path through the deep water. The slaves that you rescued could then go across safely." 
Isaiah51:11 The people that the Lord has rescued will return from exile. They will sing with joy while they go into Zion city. Their joy will be like a crown that they wear on their heads for ever. They will continue to be very happy. They will never be sad or weep again. 
Isaiah51:12 ‘I am the Lord who comforts you. You do not need to be afraid of people who are only human. Remember that they will all die one day, like grass that only lives for a short time." 
Isaiah51:13 Do not forget about the Lord who made you! I hung up the sky like a curtain. I made the foundation of the earth. So why are you always shaking with fear? Do not be afraid when your enemy is angry, and he is ready to attack you. Your enemy's anger is useless!" 
Isaiah51:14 The people who are suffering will soon become free. They will not stay in the prison of death. They will have all the food that they need. 
Isaiah51:15 Remember that I am the Lord your God. I shake the sea so that its waves roar! My name is the Lord Almighty. 
Isaiah51:16 I have given you my message to speak on my behalf. I have kept you safe in my hand. I hung up the sky like a curtain, and I made the foundation of the earth. I say to Zion, “You are my people.” ’" 
Isaiah51:17 Wake up, people in Jerusalem! Get ready! The Lord has been angry with you, and he has punished you. You had to receive all of his anger, like you were drinking strong wine from a cup. Now that you have drunk it all, you cannot stand up straight!" 
Isaiah51:18 Among all of Jerusalem's people, there was nobody left to be your leader. There was nobody who could take care of you." 
Isaiah51:19 War and famine have destroyed you. Both those terrible things have happened to you. Who feels sorry for you? Who is there to comfort you? 
Isaiah51:20 Your children have become weak, and they lie on the ground at the side of every street. They are like deer that a trap has caught. The anger of the Lord your God has made them helpless. He has warned them loudly." 
Isaiah51:21 So listen to this, you people who are in trouble. You walk like drunk people, but wine has not done that to you." 
Isaiah51:22 The Lord God who is your Lord stands beside his people. He says, ‘Look! Now I have taken the cup of my punishment out of your hand. You will no longer have to drink the strong wine of my anger that makes you drunk." 
Isaiah51:23 Instead, I will give it to your cruel enemies to punish them. They said to you, “Lie down on the ground, so that we can walk over you.” You made your backs become like the ground. You became like a street for your enemies to walk on.’" 
Isaiah52:1 Wake up, Zion! Be ready to show your strength! Jerusalem, God's holy city, put on your beautiful clothes! Foreign people who do not serve God will not attack your city again." 
Isaiah52:2 Shake off the dirt, Jerusalem! Get up and sit on your throne. People of Zion, you are no longer prisoners, so take the chains off your neck." 
Isaiah52:3 This is what the Lord says to you: ‘I received no money when I sold you. And I will not pay anything to make you free again.’ 
Isaiah52:4 The Almighty Lord says, ‘Long ago, my people went to live for some time in Egypt. At a later time, Assyria's army was cruel to them." 
Isaiah52:5 But now, what is happening? An enemy has taken my people away as slaves, for no good reason. Their leaders boast loudly, and they insult me all the time." 
Isaiah52:6 So I will cause my people to know my name. When all this happens, they will know that I am the God who speaks to them. I tell them that I am with them.’" 
Isaiah52:7 Somebody is coming across the mountains to bring good news to us! It is a beautiful thing to see him run towards us! He has come to tell us that there will be peace, because God will save our city. He says to Zion, ‘Your God rules as king!’" 
Isaiah52:8 Listen! The guards on the city's walls are shouting! They all shout together with joy! They can see for themselves that the Lord is returning to Zion. 
Isaiah52:9 Jerusalem, your buildings have become heaps of stones, but now you can all shout together with joy! Sing aloud, because the Lord has comforted his people. He has made Jerusalem safe again." 
Isaiah52:10 The Lord has shown all the nations how strong he is. They can all see his holy power. People all over the world will know that our God has rescued his people. 
Isaiah52:11 Leave! Leave! Go out from there. Do not touch anything that is unclean. Leave that foreign place! The people who carry the Lord 's special things must keep themselves pure. 
Isaiah52:12 But you will not have to hurry and run away. No, the Lord, Israel's God, will keep you safe. He will lead you at the front, and he will be your guard at the back." 
Isaiah52:13 Look! My servant will do well. He will move up to a high place where people will honour him as great. 
Isaiah52:14 At one time, when people saw him, they were very upset. His body became completely spoiled, so that he no longer seemed to be a man. He did not seem to have a human body." 
Isaiah52:15 But now, he will cause the people in many nations to be very surprised! Kings will have nothing to say when they see how great he is. They will see something new that nobody had told them about. They will understand new things that they had not heard about before." 
Isaiah53:1 Will anyone believe the news that we have to tell people? Will anyone understand how the Lord has used his great power? 
Isaiah53:2 God's servant grew up in front of him, like a young, green plant, with its root in dry ground. He was not handsome. He did not seem like a great king. We did not see him as a special person. There was nothing to see that would make us want to be with him." 
Isaiah53:3 People did not respect him. They refused to accept him. He was a man who received much pain. He knew what it felt like to be weak and ill. People did not even want to look at him. They did not respect him. We decided that he was worth nothing. 
Isaiah53:4 But he took away all our weakness! He carried our pain for us. We thought that he was receiving punishment for his own sins. We thought that God was causing him to suffer. 
Isaiah53:5 But it was our sins that caused his wounds. The bad things that we had done crushed him. The punishment that he received has brought peace to us. The wounds that he received have made us well. 
Isaiah53:6 We have all turned away, like sheep that take the wrong path. Each of us has turned to follow our own way. But the Lord has taken all our sins and put the punishment on him." 
Isaiah53:7 People were cruel to him, and he received much pain. But he did not say anything to complain. He was like a lamb that people were leading away to kill. He was like a sheep when they are cutting off its wool but it makes no noise. In the same way, he did not say anything." 
Isaiah53:8 They spoke lies to accuse him in court. Then they led him away to kill him. And nobody at that time said that it was wrong. His life in this world quickly came to an end. And it was the sins of our own people that caused him to die. 
Isaiah53:9 They decided to bury him with wicked people. But his body was put in a rich man's grave. He had not done anything to hurt anyone. He had not told lies to deceive people. 
Isaiah53:10 But it was the Lord who chose to hurt his servant. He caused his servant to receive much pain. His servant died to remove people's guilt. As a result, God will bless him with many descendants, and he will have a long life. What the Lord wants will happen, because of what his servant does." 
Isaiah53:11 When God's servant sees the result of his pain, he will understand what he has done. And he will be happy. The Lord says, ‘My righteous servant will cause many people to be “not guilty”, because he will take the punishment for all their sins." 
Isaiah53:12 So I will put him in a place of honour, as a great person deserves. He will share the good things that powerful men receive when they have won a battle. He deserves this, because he agreed to die as a sacrifice. People thought that he himself was a sinner when he took away the sins of many people. He prayed that God would forgive sinners.’" 
Isaiah54:1 ‘Sing with joy, you woman who could not give birth to any children. You have never known the pain of a child's birth, but now shout loudly with joy. Be happy, because the woman who is alone will have many children. She will have more children than the woman who has a husband.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Isaiah54:2 Make your tent bigger! You need more room to live in. Yes, do it! Make the tent's ropes longer! Make the pegs that hold it stronger!" 
Isaiah54:3 The borders of your land will be wider in all directions. Your descendants will take land from other nations. They will live in the cities that had become empty. 
Isaiah54:4 Do not be afraid. You will not be ashamed again. Do not be frightened of shame. Nobody will make you ashamed. You will forget the shame which you had when you were young. You will forget that you were ashamed to be alone, like a widow." 
Isaiah54:5 Now your Maker is your husband. His name is the Lord Almighty. Israel's Holy God is your Redeemer. He is called, ‘The God who rules the whole earth’." 
Isaiah54:6 ‘The Lord will now call you to come back to him. You have been like a wife who was very upset, because her husband has left her. You have been like a wife who married when she was young, and her husband sent her away.’ That is what your God says." 
Isaiah54:7 ‘For a short time I went away from you. But now I will bring you back to myself, because I feel very sorry for you." 
Isaiah54:8 For a moment I became very angry with you, and I turned away from you. But now I will be kind to you, because my love for you continues for ever.’ That is what the Lord, your Redeemer, says." 
Isaiah54:9 ‘This is like what I did in Noah's time. At that time, I promised that a flood of water would never again destroy the earth. Now, at this time, I have promised that I will not be angry with you again. I will not speak against you again." 
Isaiah54:10 The mountains may shake to pieces, and the hills may disappear. But I will never take my love away from you. My covenant that brings peace between us will never finish.’ That is what the Lord who is very kind to you says." 
Isaiah54:11 ‘My city, enemies attacked you, like a strong storm. Nobody was there to help you. Look! Now I will use beautiful jewels to build you again. I will build your foundation with blue sapphires." 
Isaiah54:12 I will build your strong towers with rubies. I will build your gates with valuable jewels, and I will build your walls with beautiful stones." 
Isaiah54:13 I, the Lord, will teach your children, and peace will fill their lives." 
Isaiah54:14 You will have a strong foundation of righteousness. Your cruel enemies will be far away. You will have nothing to be afraid of. No trouble will come near to frighten you. 
Isaiah54:15 If anyone comes to attack you, I will not have sent them. You will win against anyone who tries to attack you." 
Isaiah54:16 Look! I myself created the worker who knows how to use iron to make things. He makes his fire very hot, and he makes weapons from the iron. He makes weapons that are strong to fight with. I also created the armies who use their weapons to destroy people." 
Isaiah54:17 But nobody can make a weapon that will beat you, when your enemies attack you. If people accuse you of bad things, you will show that they are wrong. That is what the Lord will do as a gift for his servants. Yes, I will show that they are right.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Isaiah55:1 ‘Listen! All of you who are thirsty, come here for water to drink! You may have no money, but come here and buy food to eat! Come and buy wine and milk! You do not need to pay any money. It is free!" 
Isaiah55:2 Do not spend money on anything that is not real food. You work hard for your money, so do not spend it on things which do not help you. Listen carefully to me. Eat something that will make you strong! Enjoy the best food!" 
Isaiah55:3 Come to me and listen carefully. If you accept my teaching, you will have real life! Then I will make a covenant with you, to be my people. My promise will continue for ever, like the promise that I made to King David." 
Isaiah55:4 So look! I chose David to show my power to other people. I made him a leader to rule the people of the nations. 
Isaiah55:5 Now you will call other nations to come to you. They will be nations that you did not know before. Nations that did not know you before will now run quickly to you. They will come to you, because they see that you are great. The Lord your God, Israel's Holy God, will make people honour you.’" 
Isaiah55:6 Come to serve the Lord now, while he lets you find him. Call out to him for help, while he is near you." 
Isaiah55:7 Wicked people need to change the way that they live. Evil people must stop thinking their evil thoughts. They must turn back to the Lord our God, because he will be kind to them. Yes, God will completely forgive them, if they turn back to him." 
Isaiah55:8 The Lord says, ‘Remember! My thoughts are not the same as your thoughts. The way that you do things is not the same as the way that I do things." 
Isaiah55:9 The sky is far higher than the earth. In the same way, I do things in a much better way than you do. Also, my thoughts are much higher than your thoughts." 
Isaiah55:10 The rain and the snow come down from the sky, and they do not immediately return. Instead, they give water to the earth, so that crops will grow there. Then the farmer has seeds to plant, and people have food to eat." 
Isaiah55:11 It is the same when I give my word to people. It will not return to me without any result. No! My word does what I want it to do. What I promise to do will certainly happen.’ 
Isaiah55:12 You will leave that foreign land with joy! You will travel home with peace in your minds. The mountains and the hills will sing with joy as you travel past. The trees in the fields will clap their hands together! 
Isaiah55:13 Where thorn bushes have been growing, pine trees will grow instead. Myrtle bushes will grow where there are weeds now. Those things will show everyone that the Lord is great. It will be a sign to people for ever." 
Isaiah56:1 This is what the Lord says: ‘Always be fair and do what is right. Soon I will come to rescue you. I will do what is right for my people. 
Isaiah56:2 God will bless the people who do what is right. They must be careful to obey my laws. They must respect the rules for the Sabbath day and keep it special. They must refuse to do anything that is evil. 
Isaiah56:3 When a foreigner decides to serve the Lord, he should not say, “The Lord will keep me separate from his own people.” A eunuch should not say, “I am no better than a dead tree.” ’" 
Isaiah56:4 The Lord says this: ‘I will bless eunuchs who obey my laws. They must respect the rules for Sabbath days. They must choose to do what pleases me. They must always obey my covenant with my people. 
Isaiah56:5 If they do that, I will give them a special place in my temple. It will cause people to remember them. Their name will continue in a better way than through sons and daughters. People will always give honour to their name. It will never disappear." 
Isaiah56:6 I will also bless foreigners who decide to serve me. They must be faithful to me as my servants. They must respect the rules for the Sabbath day and keep it special. They must always obey my covenant. 
Isaiah56:7 Then I will bring them to my holy mountain. I will make them happy in my house, where people pray to me. I will accept their burnt offerings and sacrifices, when they offer them to me on my altar. People will call my temple, “A house where people from all nations may pray.” ’" 
Isaiah56:8 The Almighty Lord is the one who brings together all the Israelite people who are in exile. He says, ‘I will continue to bring more people to join with them.’" 
Isaiah56:9 ‘Come here, you wild animals! Come, you wild animals that live in the forest! Come and eat my people!" 
Isaiah56:10 Israel's guards are blind! They do not see what is happening. They are all like dogs that cannot make a noise. They cannot warn people about danger. They love to lie on the ground and they dream while they sleep. 
Isaiah56:11 They are like dogs who are always hungry. They eat a lot but they never have enough. They are like shepherds who do not understand what to do. They do whatever they want to do, so that it will help them get what they want." 
Isaiah56:12 They say to each other, “Come! We must go and find more wine to drink! We can drink as much beer as we want! Tomorrow we can do it all again! It might be even better than today!” ’" 
Isaiah57:1 When somebody who worships God dies, nobody else may think much about it. An honest person may suddenly die. Nobody really understands what is happening. God takes away his servants, so that evil things will not hurt them any more." 
Isaiah57:2 When a righteous person dies, he goes to a place where there is peace. In death, people like that rest on their beds." 
Isaiah57:3 The Lord says, ‘But you magicians, come here! You use magic to learn about future times. You are the family of an adulteress and a prostitute." 
Isaiah57:4 Who do you think you are laughing at? Who are you insulting? Who are you pointing at with your tongue? You are people who have turned against God. You love to tell lies. 
Isaiah57:5 You worship your idols among the big trees, and you have sex at the same time. You kill your children as sacrifices to your false gods. You do that beside streams and in caves among the rocks." 
Isaiah57:6 You take big stones from the streams, and they become your idols. They are the gods that you love to worship. You pour drink offerings over them. You offer grain to them. Because of what you do, should I not punish you?" 
Isaiah57:7 You go up to the tops of high hills, and you lie down there to have sex. You go there to offer sacrifices to your gods." 
Isaiah57:8 You put your images behind the doors of your rooms. Then you turn your backs to me, and you get into bed with your false gods. You have made an agreement with them. You pay money to have sex with your lovers. You love to see their bare bodies." 
Isaiah57:9 You take olive oil as a gift to your king, and also many perfumes. You send your people far away to get news of other gods. You even talk to the spirits of dead people." 
Isaiah57:10 You become very tired, because you travel so far. But you would never say, “This is useless!” Instead, you find new strength, and you do not stop." 
Isaiah57:11 What idol are you so afraid of, that you choose to deceive me? You seem to have forgotten about me. You do not think about me at all. Have I been silent for too long? Is that why you no longer respect me?" 
Isaiah57:12 Now I will speak against the things that you do. You think that they are good and right, but those things will not help you." 
Isaiah57:13 Shout for help, if you like. See if your group of idols can help you! The wind will blow them all away. Even a breath will carry them away. But if people trust me to help them, this land will belong to them. They will worship me on my holy mountain.’" 
Isaiah57:14 The Lord says, ‘Build a road! Make it ready for my people to travel on! Remove everything that would cause them to fall.’" 
Isaiah57:15 The Mighty God is far higher than all others. He rules from above and he lives for ever. His name is holy. He says, ‘I live in a high and holy place. But I am also with anyone who is humble and who is sorry when he does wrong things. I will comfort people who are like that, and I will give them hope." 
Isaiah57:16 I will not always speak against my people. I will not be angry with them for ever. I do not want them to lose hope completely. I myself gave life to them. 
Isaiah57:17 I was angry with them because they were greedy, which was a sin. So I punished them. I was angry and I turned away from them. But they still refused to obey me. They continued to do what they wanted to do." 
Isaiah57:18 I have seen what they are doing. But I will make them well again. I will be a guide for them, and I will comfort them again. Then people who are sad and they are weeping" 
Isaiah57:19 will sing songs to praise me! I will give them a reason to do that. I will bring peace to all my people, those who are far away, and those who are near. Yes, I will make them completely well again.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Isaiah57:20 ‘But wicked people are like a rough sea with dangerous waves. It cannot stay still. Its waves throw up mud and dirt. 
Isaiah57:21 There will never be peace for wicked people.’ That is what my God says. 
Isaiah58:1 The Lord says, ‘Shout out! Shout as loudly as you can! Make as much noise as a trumpet makes! Tell my people that they have not obeyed me. Tell the family of Jacob about their sins." 
Isaiah58:2 Every day my people come to worship me. It seems that they want to know my ways. They seem like a nation of people who are doing the right things. They seem to be obeying the Law of their God. They ask me to decide things fairly. Yes, they seem to want to be near to me." 
Isaiah58:3 They say to me, “We have fasted to please you, but you do not see it. We make ourselves humble and you do not even look.” Listen to me! Yes, you fast, but you do it to please yourselves. At the same time as you are fasting, you are being cruel to the people who work for you." 
Isaiah58:4 Yes! While you are fasting, you are also quarrelling and you are fighting. You hit each other with your fists. If you want your prayers to reach me in heaven, you cannot continue to fast in the way that you do today." 
Isaiah58:5 The way that you fast does not please me at all: You make yourselves humble for a day. You bend down your head, like a piece of weak grass. You lie down on sackcloth and ashes. Do you think that you are really fasting when you do that? Do you think that it pleases me, the Lord?" 
Isaiah58:6 This is the way that I want you to fast: You must remove the chains from prisoners who should not be in prison. You must stop being cruel to the people who work for you. You must let people who are in pain go free. You must break the yoke of work that is too hard for weak people. 
Isaiah58:7 Instead, share your food with hungry people. Give a place in your home to poor people who have no home. Give clothes to people who have nothing to wear. If people in your own family need help, do not refuse to help them." 
Isaiah58:8 Then God's light will shine on you, like the sun's light at dawn. Very soon, your troubles will go away. The good things that you do to help others will be clear for everyone to see. And the Lord will use his great power to keep you safe." 
Isaiah58:9 Then you will ask the Lord for help and he will answer you. When you call out to him, he will say, “Here I am.” But you must stop being cruel to other people. Do not accuse people, and do not say bad things about them." 
Isaiah58:10 If people are hungry, share your own food with them. Help those people who are in pain. Then your help to them will be like a light that shines in a dark place. You will no longer live in darkness, but you will have light as bright as the sun at noon." 
Isaiah58:11 The Lord will always be your guide. He will give you plenty to eat, even when the ground is dry. He will make your bodies strong. You will be like a garden that has plenty of water. You will be like a spring of water that never becomes dry." 
Isaiah58:12 You will build again the cities which became heaps of stones a long time ago. You will build your houses on the old foundations. People will call you, “Builders who mend the walls and the streets.”" 
Isaiah58:13 Remember to obey the rules for the Sabbath day. That is my holy day, so do not just try to please yourselves. Enjoy the Sabbath day, and respect it as the Lord 's holy day. Do not do your usual work on that day. Do not do things or speak about things, only to make yourself happy." 
Isaiah58:14 If you do those things, you will be happy as you serve me, the Lord. I will give you all the things that you need. I will cause crops to grow on the land that I gave to your ancestor Jacob.’ That is the Lord 's message." 
Isaiah59:1 Listen! The Lord 's hand is not too weak to save you. His ear is not too deaf to hear you. 
Isaiah59:2 But the wrong things that you have done have made you separate from your God. Your sins have caused him to turn away from you, so that he does not listen to your prayers." 
Isaiah59:3 Your hands are dirty with the blood of murder. They are dirty with all the bad things that you do. Your mouth tells lies, and it says wicked things about other people." 
Isaiah59:4 When people accuse somebody in court, the truth is not important. They tell lies and they deceive the judge, so that they will win. They decide how they can cause trouble, and then they do wicked things." 
Isaiah59:5 Their thoughts are like the eggs of a snake. If anyone eats those eggs, they will die! When an egg breaks open, a dangerous snake is born! They like to catch people, like a spider that makes a web." 
Isaiah59:6 Their webs are useless to make clothes. They cannot cover themselves with them. The things that they do are useless like that. They do only wicked things. They use their strength only to hurt people. 
Isaiah59:7 They rush to do evil things. They hurry to kill people who have not done anything wrong. They think only about sin. They only want to be cruel and to hurt people. 
Isaiah59:8 They do not know how to live in peace. They cannot be honest and fair. Their way of life is all wrong. Nobody who lives like that will have peace. 
Isaiah59:9 Because of that, God's justice is far away from us. He has not come to save us. We look for light to come to us, but everything is dark. We need some light in our lives, but all we have is darkness." 
Isaiah59:10 Like blind people, we touch the wall to find our way. It seems that we have no eyes to see with. Even at midday, we trip and we fall down, as if it was dark. We are like dead people who live among strong people." 
Isaiah59:11 We all make a noise, like hungry bears. We make sad noises, like doves. We are waiting for God to bring justice to us, but nothing is happening. We look for his salvation, but it is still far away." 
Isaiah59:12 Lord, you see all the bad things that we have done. Our many sins show that we are wrong. We know about the wrong things that we have done. We agree that our sins are many." 
Isaiah59:13 We have turned against the Lord. We have refused to obey him. We have chosen to be cruel to other people, and we have turned against the truth. We think about the lies that we can tell, and we use them to deceive people." 
Isaiah59:14 Judges do not decide in a fair way. Nobody tries to do what is right. There is no place for truth on the streets of our towns. Honest people have to leave. 
Isaiah59:14 Judges do not decide in a fair way. Nobody tries to do what is right. There is no place for truth on the streets of our towns. Honest people have to leave. 
Isaiah59:15 Nobody can speak the truth. If anyone tries to stop doing evil things, other people will attack him. The Lord saw how his people were living. He saw that there was no justice. It made him very sad." 
Isaiah59:16 He saw that there was nobody who would help, and he was very upset. So he used his own strength to help. Because he had to do what was right, he made his people safe." 
Isaiah59:17 He always does what is right, like a soldier who always puts on his armour. His power to save people is like the helmet that he wears. He is angry against people who do evil things, and he works hard to punish them. That is like the clothes that he wears." 
Isaiah59:18 He will punish his enemies for the bad things that they have done. He will be very angry with them. He will punish all his enemies, even those who live in lands far away." 
Isaiah59:19 Then people who live in the west will respect the Lord 's name. And people who live in the east will see how great he is. The Lord will attack them like a fast river. He will blow them away with a strong wind. 
Isaiah59:20 The Lord says, ‘A Redeemer will come to Zion. He will come to save Jacob's people who turn away from their sins.’" 
Isaiah59:21 The Lord says, ‘This is the covenant that I make with those people. My Spirit is now with you, and he will not leave you. I have put my words into your mouth, and they will always be with you. They will continue to be in the mouths of your children, and your descendants for ever.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Isaiah60:1 Stand up! Shine brightly! Now your light has come! The Lord 's glory has risen to shine on you. 
Isaiah60:2 Look! Darkness covers all the earth and its people. But the Lord shines his light on you, so that his glory appears over you." 
Isaiah60:3 People of other nations will come to your light. Kings will come to see the light of a new day that shines on you. 
Isaiah60:4 Look all around you! All your people are coming together to return to you. Your sons are coming from far away, and they carry your daughters in their arms." 
Isaiah60:5 As you see this, your eyes will shine with joy. Your hearts will beat fast, and you will be proud to see them. Traders will bring valuable things to you from lands across the seas. The riches of other nations will come to you." 
Isaiah60:6 Traders will bring things on their camels so that your roads are full. Young camels will come from Midian and from Ephah. People will come from Sheba. They will bring gold and incense. They will sing aloud to praise the Lord. 
Isaiah60:7 All the sheep and goats in Kedar will come to you. They will give you sheep from Nebaioth, and I will accept them as sacrifices on my altar. I will make my temple great and beautiful." 
Isaiah60:8 See those ships that sail along like clouds! They come like doves that are flying to their homes. 
Isaiah60:9 People from lands across the seas are coming to find me. Their big ships are leading them. They are bringing your children from far away, as well as silver and gold. They come to give honour to the name of the Lord your God. He is Israel's Holy God. They come here because he has shown that you are great." 
Isaiah60:10 Foreign people will build your walls again. Their kings will be your servants. I punished you when I was angry with you. But now I will be kind to you, and I will forgive you." 
Isaiah60:11 The gates of your city will always be open. People will never close them, during the day or during the night. Then other nations will bring their riches to you, and their kings will lead them." 
Isaiah60:12 Any nation or kingdom that refuses to serve you will come to an end. Enemies will completely destroy those nations. 
Isaiah60:13 The beautiful things of Lebanon will come to you. They will bring you its pine trees, its fir trees and its cypress trees. The wood will make my temple beautiful. I will cause my home on earth to be great!" 
Isaiah60:14 The descendants of your cruel enemies will come to you. They will bend down low in front of you. Everybody who insulted you before will now give you honour. They will call you, ‘The City of the Lord, Zion that is home for Israel's Holy God.’" 
Isaiah60:15 At one time, people kept away from you, and they hated you. Nobody travelled through you. But now I will make you a great city, so that people will be proud of you for ever. Your people and their descendants will be very happy." 
Isaiah60:16 Other nations and their kings will give you everything that you need. They will be like mothers who feed their babies with their milk. Then you will know that I, the Lord, have made you safe. You will know that I am your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob." 
Isaiah60:17 I will bring you gold instead of bronze. I will bring you silver instead of iron. I will give you bronze to use, instead of wood. I will give you iron instead of stones. I will cause peace to be your city's leader. Righteousness will rule over you." 
Isaiah60:18 You will not hear the noise of violence in your land any more. Inside its borders, nobody will fight wars or destroy things. You will call your city's walls ‘ Salvation ’, and you will call your city's gates ‘ Praise ’." 
Isaiah60:19 You will no longer need the sun to give you light in the day again. You will not need the moon to shine at night. Instead, the Lord will be the light that shines on you for ever. Yes, your God will be the light that brings you honour." 
Isaiah60:20 Your sun will never go down again and your moon will never disappear. That is because the Lord will be the light that shines on you for ever. Then your sad days will come to an end. 
Isaiah60:21 All your people will be righteous. The land will belong to them for ever. I myself will plant them in the ground like a young plant. As they grow, they will show how great I am." 
Isaiah60:22 The least important person among you will become a great family. The smallest person will become a large nation. I am the Lord. When the right time comes, I will cause it to happen quickly!" 
Isaiah61:1 The Spirit of the Almighty Lord is on me, because he has chosen me to serve him. He has sent me to tell good news to poor people. He has sent me to comfort people who are very upset. He has sent me to tell prisoners that they are now free. They can go out of their prisons!" 
Isaiah61:2 He has sent me to say, ‘This is the year when the Lord will be kind to his people.’ It is the time when our God will punish our enemies. He has sent me to comfort people who are weeping because they are sad." 
Isaiah61:3 In that way, the people in Zion who are sad will become strong again. They will not put ashes on their heads any more. Instead, they will wear beautiful hats. Instead of weeping, they will have olive oil to show their joy. They will not feel upset, but they will sing happy songs to praise God. People will call them ‘Strong trees that show God's righteousness ’. They will be like trees that the Lord himself has planted to show how great he is." 
Isaiah61:4 God's people will build again their towns that became heaps of stones a long time ago. Once again, they will live in the cities that have been empty for so long." 
Isaiah61:5 The Lord says to his people, ‘Foreign people will take care of your sheep for you. They will work on your farms, and they will take care of your vines." 
Isaiah61:6 People will call you “The Lord 's priests who are servants of our God”. You will enjoy valuable things from other nations. You will boast about all the riches that you receive from them. 
Isaiah61:7 You will not be ashamed any more. Instead, you will receive twice as much blessing. People will not say that you are useless. Instead, you will live happily on your own land. Yes, my people will have twice the crops from their land, and they will always be very happy." 
Isaiah61:8 I, the Lord, love justice. I hate it when people rob others, or they do other wrong things. Because I am faithful, I will give help to my people. I will make a covenant with them that will continue for ever." 
Isaiah61:9 Their descendants will be famous among the other nations. Everyone who sees them will know that the Lord has blessed them.’ 
Isaiah61:10 I am very happy, because of what the Lord, my God, has done. I have so much joy! He has given salvation to me, like clothes that I can wear all the time. I have his righteousness as my coat! He makes me handsome, like a bridegroom who wears a priest's hat. He makes me beautiful, like a bride who wears her jewels." 
Isaiah61:11 The Almighty Lord will cause his righteousness to grow everywhere. It will grow like crops in the fields, and like plants that grow in a garden. Then his people will praise him, and all the nations will see it!" 
Isaiah62:1 Because I love Zion, I will not be quiet. I cannot stay quiet, because Jerusalem is in trouble. I will continue to speak until she is safe again. I want her righteousness to shine like the sun at dawn. I want her salvation to be a bright light in the dark." 
Isaiah62:2 Jerusalem, the nations will see your righteousness. All their kings will see how great you are. People will call you by a new name, which the Lord himself will give to you." 
Isaiah62:3 The Lord your God will hold you in his hand, and you will bring him honour. You will be like his beautiful crown!" 
Isaiah62:4 They will no longer call you by the name ‘Alone’. They will not call your land ‘Empty place’. Instead, they will call you ‘The one that makes God happy’. The name of your land will be ‘Married’. Yes, the Lord will be very happy with you. Your land will be his bride." 
Isaiah62:5 As a young man marries a pure young woman, so your sons will marry you, Jerusalem. Your God will be very happy that you belong to him, as a bridegroom is happy with his new wife." 
Isaiah62:6 I have put guards on your walls, Jerusalem. They should never be quiet, during the day and during the night. You people who cause the Lord to remember his promises, never stop and rest!" 
Isaiah62:7 Do not give the Lord a chance to rest, until he has made Jerusalem strong again. Continue to pray until he makes it a famous city that the whole world will praise." 
Isaiah62:8 The Lord makes a strong promise, and he has the power to make it happen. He says: ‘I will never again take away your grain, and give it to your enemies for food. Foreign soldiers will not drink your wine that you have worked very hard to make." 
Isaiah62:9 Instead, the people who pick the grain at harvest time are the people who will eat it. And they will praise the Lord for it. The people who pick the grapes will drink the wine. They will drink it in the yards of my temple.’" 
Isaiah62:10 Pass through the gates! Pass through the gates! Prepare the way for the people to travel on. Build up the road! Make it strong! Remove the stones! Lift up a flag, so that the nations can see the way to go." 
Isaiah62:11 Look! The Lord has this message for the whole earth: ‘Say to the people of Zion, “Look! Your Saviour is coming! Look again! He is bringing his gifts with him. He brings the prize that he has won.” ’" 
Isaiah62:12 Their name will be ‘God's holy People’, and ‘The People that the Lord has rescued ’. And Jerusalem's name will be ‘The City where people are happy’, and ‘The City that is full of people’." 
Isaiah63:1 Who is this who is coming from Edom? He is coming from Bozrah and his clothes are bright red. He wears beautiful royal clothes, and he marches forward with great strength. He says, ‘It is me! I, the Lord, tell you that I have won the fight! I have the power to save you.’" 
Isaiah63:2 But why are your clothes red? You look like someone who has walked on grapes, and you have squeezed them to make wine." 
Isaiah63:3 He says, ‘I have walked on the grapes alone. Nobody from the nations came to help me. I walked on them because I was angry. I squeezed them to pieces in my anger. Their blood splashed on my clothes, and it made all my clothes dirty." 
Isaiah63:4 I decided that it was time to punish my enemies. Then I would save my people from their power. 
Isaiah63:5 I looked for somebody to give help, but there was nobody. I was very upset, because nobody was there to help. So I used my own strength to rescue my people. My anger helped me to be strong." 
Isaiah63:6 Because I was angry, I walked on the nations to punish them. My anger was like strong wine that made them drunk. I poured their blood onto the ground.’" 
Isaiah63:7 I will speak about all the good things that the Lord does because he loves his people. We should praise him for everything that he does for us. He has done many good things for us, Israel's family. He helps us because he loves us very much, and he is very kind." 
Isaiah63:8 The Lord said, ‘Surely, they are my own people. As my children, they will not turn against me.’ So he became their Saviour." 
Isaiah63:9 When his people suffered, he also suffered. He sent his own angel to go and save them. Because he loved them and he was kind to them, he rescued them. He lifted them up and he carried them, through all the years long ago." 
Isaiah63:10 But they turned against him. They made his Holy Spirit angry. So he then became their enemy. He fought against them. 
Isaiah63:11 Then they remembered past years, when Moses led their ancestors out of Egypt. They said, ‘Where is the Lord now, when we need him? He brought his people safely through the sea, with Moses as their leader. He caused his Holy Spirit to work among them." 
Isaiah63:12 He caused his power to be with Moses, as Moses raised his arm over the sea. He caused the waters to become separate so that his people could go across. In that way, he caused his name always to be famous." 
Isaiah63:13 He led them through the deep water of the sea. They ran across like horses on open ground, and they did not fall." 
Isaiah63:14 The Lord 's Spirit led them to a place of rest, like cows that go down to a quiet valley.’ Yes, Lord, you were your people's guide. In that way, you made your name great." 
Isaiah63:15 So now, do something to help us! Look down from your beautiful, holy home in heaven. Use your power to show that we are your special people. Have you forgotten how to be kind to us?" 
Isaiah63:16 Remember that you are our Father. Maybe our ancestor Abraham does not recognize us. Even Israel himself may not recognize us. But you, Lord, are our Father. Since times long ago, your name has been our Redeemer." 
Isaiah63:17 Lord, why do you cause us to turn away from your ways? You make our minds become hard, so that we do not obey you. Please come back to help us, because we are your servants. We are the tribes that you have chosen for yourself!" 
Isaiah63:18 For only a short time, the holy place belonged to us, your special people. Then our enemies knocked down your temple." 
Isaiah63:19 It seems that we have not belonged to you for a long time. You no longer rule over us or take care of us. 
Isaiah64:1 Please Lord, break open the skies and come down to help us! That would make the mountains shake!" 
Isaiah64:2 You would come like a fire that burns up wood, and it causes water to boil. The nations would shake with fear. Your enemies would know why your name is so great." 
Isaiah64:3 In the past, you did great things, and they surprised us. You came down and the mountains shook with fear." 
Isaiah64:4 From the beginning, nobody has heard of any God like you. You come to help those people who trust in you. Nobody has ever seen or heard of a God like you!" 
Isaiah64:5 You help people who are happy when they do what is right. People like that obey your commands. But we continued to do wrong things, even when you were angry with us. We have done bad things for a long time, so will you ever come to save us?" 
Isaiah64:6 Our sins have made us all like unclean people, who cannot worship you. Even the good things that we try to do are like dirty bits of cloth. Our sins will blow us all away, as the wind blows away dead leaves." 
Isaiah64:7 Nobody prays in your name, or calls out to you to help them. It seems that you have turned away from us. You have left us for our sins to rule us." 
Isaiah64:8 But Lord, you are still our Father. We are like clay that you have used. You are like the potter who has made us into pots. You made us all with your own hands." 
Isaiah64:9 Lord, please do not be too angry with us. Do not hold our sins in your mind for ever. Do not forget us! We are your people, all of us!" 
Isaiah64:10 Your holy cities are as empty as a desert. Yes, Zion has become a desert. Jerusalem is just a heap of stones." 
Isaiah64:11 Our ancestors praised you here in your temple. It was a beautiful place that we were proud of. But now fire has destroyed it. All our beautiful things are completely spoiled. 
Isaiah64:12 Lord, see what is happening and do something! Will you continue to keep quiet? Will you continue to give us so much trouble?" 
Isaiah65:1 The Lord says, ‘I was ready to answer, even when my people did not ask me anything. I showed myself to people who were not even looking for me. I said, “Look! Here I am!” to a nation who did not even use my name to pray." 
Isaiah65:2 All the time, I have been ready to help my people, even though they turned against me. But they continue to live in a way that is not good. They do whatever they want to do." 
Isaiah65:3 They continue to make me angry, as they insult me without shame. They offer sacrifices to their idols in their gardens. They burn incense to them on altars that are made from bricks." 
Isaiah65:4 They sit among the graves and they hide in caves. They eat meat from pigs. They use unclean meat to make their soup. 
Isaiah65:5 They say to each other, “Keep away from me! Do not come near me! I am too holy for you!” These people are like smoke in my nose! They are like a fire that burns all day.’" 
Isaiah65:6 The Lord says, ‘Look! I have decided what I will do, and I have written it down: I will not keep quiet. I will punish them completely. I will give them everything that they deserve," 
Isaiah65:7 as punishment for their sins and for the sins of their ancestors. They burned incense to their idols on the mountains, and they insulted me on the hills. So I will punish them completely, as much as they deserve.’" 
Isaiah65:8 This is what the Lord says: ‘If grapes still have some juice in them, someone will say, “Do not destroy them. There is some juice there that we can use.” I will do the same thing for my servants. I will not destroy them all." 
Isaiah65:9 I will cause Jacob's family to have descendants. There will be people of Judah's family who will live on my mountains. The land will belong to the people that I have chosen. My servants will live there. 
Isaiah65:10 Sharon will become a field where sheep safely eat grass. Cows will rest in Achor Valley. Those places will belong to my people, those who want to serve me." 
Isaiah65:11 But punishment will come to those people who turn away from the Lord. You forget to worship me on my holy mountain. Instead, you prepare food and wine to offer to your false gods called “Luck” and “Fate”." 
Isaiah65:12 So this will be your fate: a sword will kill you. You will all bend down low for someone to kill you. This will happen because you did not answer me when I spoke to you. You did not even listen to my words. You did evil things against me. You chose to do things that I would hate.’ 
Isaiah65:13 So the Almighty Lord says this: ‘Look! My servants will eat, but you will be hungry. Look! My servants will drink, but you will be thirsty. Look! My servants will be happy, but you will be ashamed." 
Isaiah65:14 Yes, my servants will sing with joy because they are so happy. But you will cry aloud because you are so sad. You will weep because you are very upset." 
Isaiah65:15 My own people will use your names when they curse others. The Almighty Lord will punish you with death, but he will give to his servants another name." 
Isaiah65:16 People in the land will use the name of the true God, when they want to say a blessing. People in the land who want to make a strong promise will also use the name of the true God. I will forget the troubles that happened in past years. I will no longer even think about them." 
Isaiah65:17 Listen! I will create new heavens and a new earth. People will not remember what things were like before. Those thoughts will not be in their minds at all. 
Isaiah65:18 But be happy about what I will create! Be happy for ever! I will create Jerusalem as a happy place. The people who live there will be full of joy. 
Isaiah65:19 And Jerusalem will cause me to be happy. My people will give me joy. There will be no noise of people who are weeping. People will not be sad in Jerusalem again. 
Isaiah65:20 Never again will there be a baby who only lives for a few days. Old men will continue to live a long life. People will live until they are 100 years old and they will still seem young. If anyone dies before he is 100 years old, people will think that God has cursed him." 
Isaiah65:21 My people will build houses and they will live in them. They will plant vineyards and they will eat the fruit from them. 
Isaiah65:22 They will no longer build houses and then other people live in them. They will not plant trees and then other people eat the fruit. My people will have long lives, as long as trees live. My own people will live to enjoy the things that they have worked hard to get." 
Isaiah65:23 Their work will not be useless. They will not give birth to children who will live in fear. Instead, the Lord will bless their children. He will bless them and their descendants with them." 
Isaiah65:24 Before they call to me for help, I will answer them. While they are still praying, I will hear them." 
Isaiah65:25 At that time, wolves and lambs will eat together. Lions will eat straw like cows. A snake's food will be dirt. Nothing will hurt or destroy anything else anywhere on my holy mountain.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Isaiah66:1 This is what the Lord says: ‘ Heaven is my throne where I sit. The earth is the place where I put my feet. So you could not build a house for me to live in. Where would I lie down to rest? 
Isaiah66:2 I made all these things with my own hands. That is how everything began.’ The Lord says, ‘I am pleased with people who are humble. Those people are sorry when they do wrong things. They respect my teaching with fear." 
Isaiah66:3 Perhaps you kill a bull as a sacrifice to me, but you also kill a man. Perhaps you offer a lamb to me as a sacrifice, but you also break a dog's neck to offer to your idols. Perhaps you give me a grain offering, but you also offer pigs' blood. Or perhaps you burn incense to worship me but you also worship false gods. Yes, these people have chosen how they want to live. They love to do these disgusting things." 
Isaiah66:4 So I will cause great trouble to come to them. It will be the trouble that they are so afraid of. When I called out to them, nobody answered me. When I spoke to them, nobody listened. They did evil things against me. They chose to do things that I hate.’" 
Isaiah66:5 Hear this message from the Lord, you people who respect his teaching with fear. Some of your own people hate you. They throw you out, because you are faithful to me. They laugh at you and they say, ‘Let the Lord show how great he is! We want to see him make you happy!’ But it is those people who will be ashamed." 
Isaiah66:6 Listen to the loud noise that is coming from the city! It is a noise that comes from the temple. The Lord is punishing his enemies as they deserve. That is what is making the noise! 
Isaiah66:7 What is happening? Zion is giving birth to a son before she has her birth pains! 
Isaiah66:8 Nobody has ever heard of anything like that. Nobody has ever seen that happen before. Can a country be born in just one day? Can a nation be born in a moment? But as soon as Zion's birth pains begin, she has already given birth to her children!" 
Isaiah66:9 The Lord your God says, ‘When I bring a baby to the moment of birth, the child is always born. I do not stop its birth.’" 
Isaiah66:10 All you people who love Jerusalem, join together with its people and be happy. You have been sad to see what has happened to the city, but now you should shout with joy!" 
Isaiah66:11 Jerusalem will take care of you like a mother. She will give you all that you need, like a mother that feeds her baby with milk. The great blessing that comes from her full breasts will make you very happy." 
Isaiah66:12 The Lord says, ‘Look! I will give peace to Jerusalem, like a great river. Riches from other nations will pour into the city, like a stream that is full of water. Jerusalem will take care of you like a mother that feeds her baby. She will carry you in her arms, and she will hold you on her knees." 
Isaiah66:13 I will comfort you, as a mother comforts her child. As you live in Jerusalem, you will be happy again.’" 
Isaiah66:14 And when you see these things happen, you will feel very happy! You will become strong and healthy, like fresh grass. The Lord 's servants will know that he is there to bless them. But his enemies will see that he is angry with them." 
Isaiah66:15 Look! The Lord is coming with fire. His chariots will blow in like a strong storm. People will see his great anger, as he comes to punish his enemies with flames of fire." 
Isaiah66:16 The Lord will use fire and his sword to judge all people. The Lord will kill many people. 
Isaiah66:17 The Lord says, ‘I will destroy people who prepare themselves to worship their false gods. They make themselves clean and they follow one another into their special gardens. They eat unclean meat from pigs and rats and other disgusting animals. They will all come to their deaths together." 
Isaiah66:18 I know everything that they do and everything that they think. So I will come. I will bring together the people from all nations and those who speak all languages. I will show them how great I am. 
Isaiah66:19 I will do a great thing among them, to show them my power. I will send some of the people who are still alive to other nations. They will go to: Tarshish, Libya, Lydia (where their soldiers shoot arrows very well), Tubal, Greece, and lands far away, where people have never heard about me and they do not know how great I am. Those people will tell other nations about my great glory.’" 
Isaiah66:20 The Lord says, ‘They will bring back all your relatives who still live in other countries. They will bring them to my holy hill in Jerusalem, as a gift to me, the Lord. They will come on horses, in chariots, in carts, on mules and on camels. They will bring them in the way that the Israelites bring grain offerings to me in my temple. They bring their offerings in holy dishes.’" 
Isaiah66:21 The Lord says, ‘I will choose some of them to be priests. And I will choose some of them to serve me as Levites.’" 
Isaiah66:22 The Lord says, ‘The new heavens and the new earth that I will make will always be there. In the same way, your descendants and your family name will always continue.’" 
Isaiah66:23 The Lord says, ‘Everybody will come to worship me. They will come at each New Moon and on every Sabbath day." 
Isaiah66:24 When they go out of the city, they will see the dead bodies of the people who turned against me. In that heap of bodies, the worms never die and the fire never stops burning. Everybody will see that it is disgusting.’" 
Jeremiah1:1 This book tells about Hilkiah's son, Jeremiah, and the words that he spoke. Jeremiah was a priest. He lived at Anathoth, a town in the land that belonged to the tribe of Benjamin." 
Jeremiah1:2 The Lord first spoke to him when Amon's son Josiah had been king of Judah for 13 years. 
Jeremiah1:3 The Lord also spoke to him while Josiah's son, Jehoiakim, ruled Judah as king. He continued to speak to Jeremiah until Josiah's son Zedekiah had ruled Judah for 11 years. In the fifth month of that year, Judah's enemies took the people of Jerusalem away as their prisoners." 
Jeremiah1:4 The Lord gave me this message: 
Jeremiah1:5 ‘I already knew you before I made you inside your mother's body. I chose you to be special before you were born. I chose you to be my prophet, to speak my message to other nations.’" 
Jeremiah1:6 I answered, ‘ Lord God, I do not know how to speak. I am only a child.’" 
Jeremiah1:7 The Lord said to me, ‘Do not say, “I am only a child.” You must go to everyone that I send you to. You must say whatever I tell you to say." 
Jeremiah1:8 Do not be afraid of them. Remember that I will be with you. I will keep you safe.’ 
Jeremiah1:9 Then the Lord touched my mouth with his hand. He said to me, ‘I am giving you the words that you must speak." 
Jeremiah1:10 Look! I give you authority to tell nations and kingdoms what will happen to them. You will pull some of them out of the ground, like a plant and its roots. You will knock down and destroy some of them. You will bring an end to their power. But you will build up other nations and make them strong.’" 
Jeremiah1:11 The Lord asked me, ‘What do you see, Jeremiah?’ I replied, ‘I see the branch of an almond tree.’" 
Jeremiah1:12 The Lord said, ‘Yes, that is correct. I am watching carefully. The things that I tell you about will really happen. I will make sure of that.’" 
Jeremiah1:13 The Lord asked me again. ‘What do you see?’ I replied, ‘I see in the north a pot with boiling water in it. It will pour its water in this direction.’ The Lord said," 
Jeremiah1:14 ‘Yes, trouble like boiling water will come from the north. It will destroy all the people who live in this land." 
Jeremiah1:15 I will call all the nations that are in the north to come here. Their kings will come and they will sit on their thrones at the city gates of Jerusalem. Their armies will be all around the walls of Jerusalem and the other cities of Judah. 
Jeremiah1:16 I will punish my people for the wicked things that they have done. They have turned away from me. They have offered sacrifices to false gods. They have worshipped idols that they have made with their own hands. 
Jeremiah1:17 You must be ready to move, Jeremiah! Go and say to the people whatever I tell you. Do not be afraid of them. If you are afraid of them now, when you are among them, I will cause you to be very frightened!" 
Jeremiah1:18 I, the Lord, promise that I will make you as strong as a city with strong walls around it. You will be as strong as an iron pillar, or a wall that is made of bronze. You will speak a message against the whole nation of Judah. You will speak against its kings, its officers, its priests and all its people." 
Jeremiah1:19 They will attack you. But they will not win against you, because I will be with you. I will keep you safe. That is what the Lord says.’" 
Jeremiah2:1 The Lord spoke to me again. 
Jeremiah2:2 He said, ‘Go and tell this to the people in Jerusalem: “This is what the Lord says: I remember how you used to love me when you were young. You loved me as a young wife loves her husband. You followed me through the wilderness, where no crops were growing." 
Jeremiah2:3 At that time, Israel belonged to me as my special people. You were like the first crops that grew on my land. I promised to punish anyone who tried to hurt you. I sent great trouble to those who attacked you. That is what I, the Lord, have said.” ’" 
Jeremiah2:4 Listen to what the Lord says, you descendants of Jacob, all you families in Israel." 
Jeremiah2:5 This is the Lord 's message to you: ‘I had done nothing wrong against your ancestors, but they turned away from me. Instead, they worshipped useless idols. So they themselves became useless." 
Jeremiah2:6 They did not think to themselves, “Where is the Lord? We should ask him to help us. He brought us safely out of Egypt. He led us through the wilderness. It was a place with dry sand and deep holes. There was no water there and it was dangerous. Nobody lives in that desert, and nobody even travels through it.”" 
Jeremiah2:7 But I, the Lord, brought you to a good land. It was a place where fruit grew on trees. You could eat all those good things, as well as the crops that you grew there. You came into the land that I had promised to give to you. But you spoiled it with your sins. You made it a disgusting place." 
Jeremiah2:8 Your priests did not ask, “Where is the Lord?” The people who taught my laws did not know me. Your leaders turned against me. Your prophets spoke messages from Baal. They worshipped useless idols.’" 
Jeremiah2:9 So the Lord says this: ‘Because of your sins, I will speak against you in court. I will show that you are guilty, as well as your children and your grandchildren." 
Jeremiah2:10 No other nation has done what you have done! Send people across the sea to islands in the west. Or send them to the deserts in the east. Let them find out if any other people have done this terrible thing. 
Jeremiah2:11 Have any other nations turned against their gods? No! They have not done that, even to their false gods! But my people have turned against me, the true God who makes them great.’" 
Jeremiah2:12 The Lord says, ‘The whole universe should see how terrible this is. Yes, everything should shake with fear!" 
Jeremiah2:13 My people have done two evil things: I give them life, like a spring of fresh water, but they have turned away from me. Instead, they have tried to get water for themselves. They have dug holes in the ground to store it. But those holes cannot hold the water. It quickly pours away." 
Jeremiah2:14 Israel's people are surely not slaves. They were not born as slaves. But their enemies have taken them away as prisoners. 
Jeremiah2:15 Their enemies have attacked them like lions. They have destroyed my people's land. They have destroyed your cities with fire. Nobody lives in them any more. 
Jeremiah2:16 Soldiers from Memphis and Tahpanhes have broken your skulls! 
Jeremiah2:17 You Israelites have caused this to happen. The Lord your God was leading you on the right way. But you decided not to follow him any longer. 
Jeremiah2:18 So what help will you get from Egypt? If you drink water from the River Nile, will that make you strong? No! And what help will you get from Assyria? If you drink water from the Euphrates River, will that make you strong? No!" 
Jeremiah2:19 The wicked things that you have done will punish you. You are guilty because you have turned away from me. You have brought terrible trouble on yourselves, because you have turned against me, the Lord your God. Because you no longer respect me, you will realize that you are in great trouble.’ That is what the Lord God Almighty says." 
Jeremiah2:20 ‘A long time ago, you stopped obeying me. You refused to accept my authority. You said, “I will not serve you!” Instead, you go up on the hills to worship other gods. You lie down under the green trees, and you live like prostitutes." 
Jeremiah2:21 I planted you in my land, like the very good seed of a vine. But see how you have changed! You have become like a wild vine. Your grapes are bad and useless." 
Jeremiah2:22 You may use strong soap to make yourselves clean. But I still see the dirt of your sins.’ That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Jeremiah2:23 ‘You say, “We have not made ourselves unclean. We do not worship the idols of Baal.” But remember what you have done in the valleys. You hurry to find another idol that you can worship. Like a female camel, you cannot control yourselves." 
Jeremiah2:24 You are like a wild female donkey that lives in the wilderness. She lifts her nose to smell the air. She wants to find a male donkey. Nobody can control her. Male donkeys do not have to chase her. She will come to them to have sex with them. You are like that as you chase after false gods. 
Jeremiah2:25 Stop running after them! Your feet will hurt and you will become very thirsty. You say, “Do not try to stop us! We cannot turn back. We love foreign gods and we must serve them!”" 
Jeremiah2:26 A robber is ashamed when people catch him. The people of Israel will become ashamed like that. They will all be ashamed of their sins. Their kings, their officers, their priests and their prophets are all guilty." 
Jeremiah2:27 They worship a piece of wood, and they say, “You are my father.” They say to a stone, “You gave birth to me.” They have not turned to come to me. Instead, they have turned away from me. But when trouble comes to them, they call out to me to rescue them." 
Jeremiah2:28 But where are the gods that you made for yourselves? Ask them to save you when trouble comes! You have enough gods to give you help. Yes, people of Judah, your gods are as many as your towns!" 
Jeremiah2:29 You cannot argue against me. You have all turned against me.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah2:30 ‘When I punished your people, they did not change how they lived. When I sent my prophets to you, you killed them as if you were a hungry lion.’" 
Jeremiah2:31 Listen to the Lord 's message, you people who are alive today: ‘People of Israel, why do you not trust me? Have I become like a desert for you? Have I become a dark and dangerous land for you to live in? No! But you say, “We are free to go where we like. We do not need to serve you any more.”" 
Jeremiah2:32 A young woman does not forget to wear her jewels. When a woman marries, she does not forget to wear her special dress. But for many years, my people have forgotten me." 
Jeremiah2:33 You are very clever. You can always find someone to love. Even prostitutes could learn something from you! 
Jeremiah2:34 You have been cruel to poor people for no reason. Your clothes have their blood on them! They had not robbed you, but you still killed them. You have done all these bad things, but still you say," 
Jeremiah2:35 “We have not done anything that is wrong. God cannot be angry with us!” Be careful! I will surely punish you, because you say, “I am not guilty of any sin.”" 
Jeremiah2:36 You try to get help from other nations. You run here and there to make new friends. You hoped for help from Assyria, but no help came. And you will get no help from Egypt either." 
Jeremiah2:37 You will come away from Egypt with your hands on your heads. You will be ashamed and upset. The Lord has turned away from those nations. You have trusted them to help you, But you will not receive any help from them.’" 
Jeremiah3:1 The Lord says this: ‘If a man sends his wife away, she may leave him and marry another man. Then her first husband may not take her as his wife again. That would be a sin against the land where you live. But you have left me to live with other gods. You have lived like a prostitute, but you still think that you can return to me." 
Jeremiah3:2 Look up at the tops of the hills. You have loved other gods on all of them! You sat at the side of the road, and you waited for a lover to come. Like a robber, you waited to catch men so that you could sleep with them. You have not been faithful to me, but you have looked for other gods, like a prostitute. The wicked things that you have done have made the land unclean." 
Jeremiah3:3 That is why I have not sent any rain on your land. Even the spring rains have not come. But you still live like a proud prostitute. You refuse to be ashamed of what you have done. 
Jeremiah3:4 You still call me your Father. You say, “You have always been my friend. You have loved me all my life." 
Jeremiah3:5 Surely you will not always be angry with me! You cannot continue to be angry for ever.” Those are the things that you say. But you continue to do as many evil things as you can.’ 
Jeremiah3:6 The Lord spoke to me while Josiah was king of Judah. He said, ‘Look at what the Israelites have done. They have not been faithful to me. They have worshipped other gods under every big tree and on every high hill. Israel has been like a wife who is not faithful to her husband." 
Jeremiah3:7 I thought that one day she would come back to me. But she did not return. Israel's sister, Judah, saw what Israel did." 
Jeremiah3:8 Israel was not faithful to me and she served other gods. So I sent her away, like a husband may send his wife away if she is not faithful to him. Judah saw what happened to Israel, but she was not afraid. Like a prostitute, she also went to find other gods that she could serve." 
Jeremiah3:9 She was not ashamed of what she was doing. She worshipped idols made of wood and stone. She made the land unclean because she was not faithful to me. 
Jeremiah3:10 Still Judah has not turned back to me. She wants me to think that she has, but she has not. Like her sister, Israel, she has not been faithful.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah3:11 The Lord said to me, ‘It is true that Israel's people have not been faithful to me. But Judah's people are even more guilty than them." 
Jeremiah3:12 Go now. Shout this message to my people in the north: “You people of Israel have not been faithful to me. But now return to me.” The Lord says this. “I will not always turn away from you. I am kind and I forgive people. I will not be angry with you for ever.” The Lord says this. 
Jeremiah3:13 “But you must agree that you are guilty of sin. You have turned against me, the Lord your God. You have loved to serve many foreign gods. You have worshipped them under every big tree. You have not obeyed my commands.” ’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah3:14 The Lord says, ‘Return to me, you people who have turned away. Remember that you belong to me. If you turn back to me, I will choose one of you from each town and two from each family. I will bring you safely back to Zion." 
Jeremiah3:15 I will give you leaders who will serve me faithfully. They will take care of you like shepherds. They will be wise and they will lead you well. 
Jeremiah3:16 Then the number of your people who live in your land will grow. You will no longer need to talk about the Lord 's Covenant Box. You will not think that it is important any more. You will forget all about it. You will not want to make another one. 
Jeremiah3:17 Instead, you will call the city of Jerusalem “The Lord 's throne ”. At that time, people from all nations will come to Jerusalem. They will meet there to give honour to the Lord 's name. They will no longer do the wicked things that they enjoy." 
Jeremiah3:18 At that time, the nations of Judah and Israel will join together as one kingdom. They will leave their exile in a country in the north. They will come back to this land that I gave to your ancestors to be their home for ever." 
Jeremiah3:19 I thought this: “I want you people of Israel to be my children. That would make me very happy. I want to give you a good land as your home. It is a more beautiful land than any other nation enjoys.” I thought that you would call me “Father”. I thought that you would always be faithful to me. 
Jeremiah3:20 But you, Israel, have gone away from me, like a woman who leaves her husband. You have not been faithful to me.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah3:21 ‘I can hear a noise on the tops of the hills. Israel's people are weeping. They are calling out for help. Yes, they have turned to bad ways. They have forgotten to serve the Lord their God." 
Jeremiah3:22 Return to me, all of you who have turned away. I will help you to be faithful to me. Now you should say, “Yes, we will return to you, because you are the Lord our God." 
Jeremiah3:23 The false gods that we worship on the hills have deceived us. Our wild parties on the mountains have not helped us. Only the Lord our God can really save Israel. 
Jeremiah3:24 Since we were a young nation, we have seen all our good things disappear. The useless gods that we worshipped have taken them. They took away the things that our ancestors worked to get. They took away our sheep and our cows. They even took away our sons and our daughters." 
Jeremiah3:25 We are ashamed to agree that this is true. We must accept the shame that we deserve. We and our ancestors have done bad things against the Lord our God. Since long ago, we have not obeyed him, and even today, we still do not listen to him.” ’" 
Jeremiah4:1 The Lord says this: ‘People of Israel, you should return to me. If you want to do that, you must throw away your idols. Remove those disgusting things and do not turn away from me again." 
Jeremiah4:2 You must be honest and do what is right. You must do what you promise to do. You can show that your promise is true when you add, “As surely as the Lord is alive.” Then other nations will see that I have blessed you. They will pray that I will bless them too, and they will praise me.’" 
Jeremiah4:3 The Lord says this to the people of Jerusalem and all Judah: ‘Prepare yourselves, like a farmer who ploughs his fields. Do not plant your seeds where weeds are growing." 
Jeremiah4:4 Give yourselves to me, the Lord, and agree to serve me faithfully. Remove from your lives everything that is not right, so that you obey my covenant. If you do not do that, I will be very angry with you. I will punish you like a hot fire that destroys things. Nobody will be able to stop my anger. People of Judah and Jerusalem, if you continue to do wicked things, I will certainly punish you.’" 
Jeremiah4:5 The Lord said: ‘Shout this message to the people in Jerusalem and in all Judah: “Make a loud noise with trumpets in all the land!” Shout loudly, “Come together! We must all run to the cities with strong walls!”" 
Jeremiah4:6 Lift up a flag that shows the way to Zion! Run quickly to a safe place! Do not wait! I will soon bring great trouble from the north. An enemy will destroy your country. 
Jeremiah4:7 Yes, a strong army is coming, like a lion that has left its cave. It has come out to destroy many nations. It will attack your whole land. Your cities will become heaps of stones, and nobody will live in them." 
Jeremiah4:8 So wear rough sackcloth! Weep and cry aloud. Say, “The Lord is still very angry with us.” ’" 
Jeremiah4:9 The Lord says: ‘When this happens, the king and his officers will be afraid. The priests will shake with fear. The prophets will be unable to speak.’" 
Jeremiah4:10 Then I said, ‘ Lord God, that is terrible! You have deceived the people of Judah and Jerusalem. You told them, “You will live in peace.” But now an enemy is ready to attack us!’" 
Jeremiah4:11 The Lord will tell the people at that time, ‘A hot wind will blow from the hills in the desert. It will not be a little wind that blows chaff from wheat. It will be a strong storm that blows away the people that I love." 
Jeremiah4:12 I will send a strong wind of punishment on my people.’ 
Jeremiah4:13 Look! The enemy army is coming like dark clouds! Their chariots make the noise of a storm. Their horses move faster than eagles in the sky. Terrible trouble has come. We will all die! 
Jeremiah4:14 People of Jerusalem, remove the evil things from your lives. Then the Lord may save you. Do not continue to have wicked ideas." 
Jeremiah4:15 People are bringing a message from Dan and from the hill country of Ephraim. The message says that great trouble is coming. 
Jeremiah4:16 They say, ‘ Warn all the nations that the enemy is coming!’ Shout this message in Jerusalem: ‘An army is coming from a country that is far away. They will attack the towns in Judah." 
Jeremiah4:17 Their soldiers are all around Jerusalem's walls, like guards around a farmer's field.’ The Lord says, ‘This will happen because the people of Judah have turned against me." 
Jeremiah4:18 I will punish you very much, because that is what you deserve. You have lived in a wicked way and you have done evil things. My punishment will give you pain that goes all through you.’" 
Jeremiah4:19 I am so upset! My body is shaking with pain. My heart beats hard inside me. I cannot keep still. I cannot keep quiet. I have heard the noise of the enemy's trumpets and the shouts of their soldiers. 
Jeremiah4:20 They are winning one battle after another! They are destroying the whole land. Our homes are becoming heaps of stones. They quickly knock down our tents. 
Jeremiah4:21 How long will our enemy continue to attack us? How long will I see their flags and hear their trumpets? 
Jeremiah4:22 The Lord says, ‘My people are fools. They do not know me. They are like children who do not know anything. They understand nothing. They are very clever at doing evil things. But they do not know how to do what is good.’" 
Jeremiah4:23 I looked at the earth. It had no shape and it was empty. I looked at the sky. Its light had disappeared. 
Jeremiah4:24 I looked at the mountains. They were shaking. All the hills were moving around. 
Jeremiah4:25 When I looked, I saw no people. All the birds had flown away." 
Jeremiah4:26 The land where crops had grown was now a desert. All the cities had become heaps of stones. The Lord had caused this to happen because he was very angry. 
Jeremiah4:27 The Lord had said, ‘The whole land will become like a desert, but I will not completely destroy it." 
Jeremiah4:28 So the earth will be sad and weep. The sky will become dark. I have said what I will do. And I will not change my thoughts. I will do as I have decided.’ 
Jeremiah4:29 When the enemy attacks a town, the people will run away to escape. The enemy soldiers will ride on horses, and they will shoot arrows. When the people hear them, some of them will hide among trees. Some of them will climb up among the rocks. All the towns will become empty. Nobody will live in them." 
Jeremiah4:30 Yes, Jerusalem, an enemy has destroyed you! You tried to make friends, like a woman who wears a beautiful dress. You wore your gold and your jewels. You painted around your eyes. But all that has not helped you. The nations that you wanted to be your lovers have turned against you. Now they want to kill you." 
Jeremiah4:31 I can hear people who are calling out. It sounds like a woman who is giving birth to her first baby. She is calling out with great pain. It is Jerusalem who is crying! She is calling out for help. She says, ‘Help me! I am very weak. These murderers have come to kill me!’" 
Jeremiah5:1 The Lord said, ‘Run along all the streets of Jerusalem. Look carefully all around you. Look in all the public places of the city. Try to find one person who is honest. Try to find one person who wants to know the truth. If you find one person like that, I will forgive all the people in the city." 
Jeremiah5:2 They make promises and they say, “I will do it, as surely as the Lord lives.” But what they say is all lies.’" 
Jeremiah5:3 Lord, you want people to be honest and true. You have punished your people, but they did not feel upset. You nearly destroyed them, but they still refused to change. Their minds have become as hard as rock. They refuse to turn back to you." 
Jeremiah5:4 I thought, ‘These are poor, foolish people. They do not understand what the Lord wants them to do. They do not know his commands." 
Jeremiah5:5 So I will go to speak to the leaders. They will surely understand what the Lord wants. They will know his commands.’ But all of them have turned against the Lord too. They refuse to obey his authority. 
Jeremiah5:6 So lions will come out of the forest to attack them. Wolves will come from the desert to destroy them. Leopards will wait outside their cities. They will kill anyone who goes outside. That will happen because the people have turned against the Lord. They have done many bad things. 
Jeremiah5:7 The Lord said, ‘Jerusalem, I have to punish you. Your people have turned away from me. They have served gods that are not true gods. I gave them everything that they needed. But they left me, like a wife who leaves her husband. The men hurry to the houses of prostitutes." 
Jeremiah5:8 They are like strong male horses. They cannot wait to have sex with another man's wife.’ 
Jeremiah5:9 The Lord says this: ‘I must punish them for what they have done. I will pay back this wicked nation for their sins.’ 
Jeremiah5:10 The Lord says this to Judah's enemies: ‘March through the vineyards of Israel and Judah, and destroy the vines. But do not destroy them completely. Pull the branches from the trees. Do this, because these people do not belong to the Lord." 
Jeremiah5:11 The people of Israel and Judah have turned against me. 
Jeremiah5:12 They have told lies about the Lord. They have said, “He will not punish us! No trouble will come to us. There will be no war. There will be no famine." 
Jeremiah5:13 The prophets speak empty words. They do not speak the Lord 's messages. The troubles that they talk about should happen to them, not us!” ’" 
Jeremiah5:14 Because of that, the Lord God Almighty said to me, ‘That is what the people are saying. So I will give you a strong message to speak to them. It will be like fire that comes out of your mouth. And the people will burn like wood in that fire.’" 
Jeremiah5:15 The Lord says this: ‘Listen to me, you people of Israel. I will bring an army to attack you. They will come from a nation that is far away. It is a strong nation that started long ago. You do not know their language. You cannot understand what they say." 
Jeremiah5:16 They are all brave soldiers. They shoot arrows that will kill you. 
Jeremiah5:17 They will eat all the crops in your fields and the food that you have stored. They will take your sons and your daughters for themselves. They will kill your sheep and your cows for food. They will eat all your grapes and your figs. They will attack your strong cities where you thought you would be safe. Their soldiers will knock down the walls.’ 
Jeremiah5:18 But the Lord says this: ‘Even at that time, I will not destroy you completely." 
Jeremiah5:19 So, Jeremiah, the people may ask you, “Why has the Lord our God done this to us?” Then tell them, “It is because you have turned away from me. You have chosen to serve foreign gods in your own land. So now you will have to serve foreign people and their gods in a land that is not your own land.”" 
Jeremiah5:20 Tell this message to the descendants of Jacob. Shout it everywhere in Judah. 
Jeremiah5:21 Tell them, “Hear this message, you foolish and stupid people. You have eyes, but you do not see properly. You have ears, but you do not hear properly.” ’" 
Jeremiah5:22 The Lord says, ‘You should respect me and obey me. You should shake with fear when you come to me. I made the sand as a border for the sea. It is like a wall that the sea cannot go over. The sea's waves may attack the shore, but it cannot go further than that." 
Jeremiah5:23 But these people do not obey me, as the waves do. They have turned away from me. They have chosen to go their own way." 
Jeremiah5:24 They do not say to themselves, “We should respect the Lord our God. He sends rain for us in the autumn and in the spring. He makes sure that we have a harvest from our crops.”" 
Jeremiah5:25 But instead, your sins have stopped these good things. You have not received God's blessing." 
Jeremiah5:26 There are wicked men among my people. They like to catch people and rob them. They hide like someone who wants to catch a bird. They put out their traps to kill what they want. 
Jeremiah5:27 Their houses are full of valuable things, like a trap that is full of beautiful birds. They have cheated people and they have robbed them. That is how they have become rich and powerful." 
Jeremiah5:28 They are very fat and healthy. They will never stop doing evil things. They do not help poor people or children who have no family. They do not try to get justice for them.’ 
Jeremiah5:29 The Lord says, ‘I will certainly punish them for what they have done. I will pay back this wicked nation for their sins." 
Jeremiah5:30 A terrible thing is happening in the land of Judah. 
Jeremiah5:31 The prophets speak messages that are not true. The priests make their own rules for people to obey. And my people love to live like this! But when all this comes to an end, my people will be helpless!’" 
Jeremiah6:1 You descendants of Benjamin, you must run away to be safe! Escape from Jerusalem! Make a noise with a trumpet in Tekoa! Light a fire to warn people in Beth-Hakkerem! A great army is coming from the north. It will come to destroy everything!" 
Jeremiah6:2 Jerusalem is a beautiful city, like a daughter that I love. She cannot protect herself, and I will destroy her." 
Jeremiah6:3 Kings will come to attack the city. They will bring their armies, like shepherds with their sheep. They will make their camps all around the city. Each of them will take their own piece of land." 
Jeremiah6:4 They will say to their soldiers, ‘Get ready to attack the city! We will attack at noon!’ But if the day is almost finished, they will say, ‘It is already evening and it will soon be dark." 
Jeremiah6:5 So we should attack them in the night. We will destroy all their strong buildings!’ 
Jeremiah6:6 This will happen because the Lord Almighty has said, ‘Cut down the trees around Jerusalem. Use them to build towers to the top of the city's walls. I must punish Jerusalem. It is full of cruel people." 
Jeremiah6:7 They never stop doing wicked things, like water that pours out from a spring. It is full of the noise of violence and fights. Everywhere I see people who have disease and wounds." 
Jeremiah6:8 Listen to me as I warn you, Jerusalem. If not, I will turn away from you. I will destroy you completely. Nobody will live in your land any more.’" 
Jeremiah6:9 The Lord Almighty said this: ‘I will let the enemy take all the people from Israel, like a farmer who picks all the grapes from his vine. So check the vines carefully, to see if there are some grapes that you can save.’" 
Jeremiah6:10 I replied, ‘If I speak to people and I warn them, nobody will listen to me. They have shut their ears so that they cannot hear. They hate the Lord 's message. They do not want to hear it." 
Jeremiah6:11 I am as angry with them as you are, Lord. I can no longer control my anger.’ The Lord replied, ‘Tell everyone how angry you are! Tell the children who play in the streets, Tell the young men who meet together. Include all the men and their wives, as well as the old people, and those who are near to death." 
Jeremiah6:12 I will give their houses to other people to live in. Other people will take their fields and their wives. Yes, I will punish the people who live in this land.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah6:13 ‘They all cheat other people to get what they want. Important people and ordinary people do that. Prophets and priests do that. They love to deceive people. 
Jeremiah6:14 They tell my people that their wounds are not bad. They say to them, “No problem! You will have peace!” But there will be no peace for my people." 
Jeremiah6:15 They are not ashamed of the disgusting things that they do. They do not even know what shame is. They have forgotten how to be ashamed. So they will fall to the ground, as other people have fallen. When I decide to punish them, that will be the end of them.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah6:16 The Lord said to his people, ‘Stand at the place where the roads cross, and look carefully. Ask where the ways of your ancestors are. Find the good way, and go along that way. Then you will live in peace.’ But the people said, ‘No, we will not go that way. ’" 
Jeremiah6:17 The Lord said, ‘I sent my prophets to warn you of danger. They said, “Listen for the noise of the trumpet! That will tell you when danger is near.” But you said, “We do not want to listen.”" 
Jeremiah6:18 So listen to me, all you nations. Look carefully! See what will happen to my people." 
Jeremiah6:19 Hear me, all people on the earth. I will cause great trouble for my people. I will punish them as a result of their wrong thoughts. They have not listened to my messages. They have turned against my Law." 
Jeremiah6:20 They may offer to me sweet incense that comes from Sheba. But that does not please me. The spices that they bring from lands far away do not please me either. I will not accept the burnt offerings or other sacrifices that they offer to me.’ 
Jeremiah6:21 So this is what the Lord says: ‘I will send troubles to make these people fall down. Fathers and their children will all fall to the ground. Their friends and their neighbours will die.’ 
Jeremiah6:22 This is what the Lord says: ‘Look! An army is coming from the north. A great nation is preparing to attack you from a place that is far away. 
Jeremiah6:23 Its soldiers carry bows and spears as their weapons. They are always cruel and they are never kind. They ride into the battle on their horses, and it sounds like the noise of the sea. They are ready to attack you, people of Jerusalem.’" 
Jeremiah6:24 The people say, ‘We have heard news about them, and we are very frightened. We feel too weak to fight. We are afraid and in pain, like a woman who is giving birth." 
Jeremiah6:25 Do not go out into the fields. Do not travel on the roads. Our enemies are everywhere. They have their swords ready to attack us. Danger is all around us.’ 
Jeremiah6:26 So I say, ‘My dear people, show that you are sorry. Wear sackcloth and sit in ashes. Weep and cry aloud, as if your only child had died. Realize that the enemy's army will soon be here and they are ready to destroy us.’" 
Jeremiah6:27 The Lord said to me, ‘I have sent you to test my people. Test them like someone who tests metal. Watch them carefully, to see how they live." 
Jeremiah6:28 They have completely turned against God. They refuse to change their minds. They tell lies against people, and they cheat them." 
Jeremiah6:29 A very hot fire can remove the dirt from silver and make it pure. I punish my people to make them pure, but it is useless. There are too many wicked people, so I cannot make them pure." 
Jeremiah6:30 I, the Lord, cannot accept them, so they are like useless silver.’" 
Jeremiah7:1 The Lord gave this message to Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah7:2 ‘Stand at the gate of the Lord 's temple and speak this message. Say, “Listen to the Lord 's message, all you people of Judah. You come through this gate to worship the Lord." 
Jeremiah7:3 This is what the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says: Change the way that you live. Do things that are right. If you change, I will let you continue to live here." 
Jeremiah7:4 People may say, ‘We are safe here! This is the temple of the Lord. It is the temple of the Lord!’ But the people who say that are deceiving you. Do not trust them." 
Jeremiah7:5 You must change the way that you have been living. You must do what is right. Be fair to each other. 
Jeremiah7:6 Do not be cruel to foreigners who are living among you. Do not be cruel to widows, or to children who have no family. You must stop murdering people. You must stop worshipping other gods. If you live like that, it will destroy you." 
Jeremiah7:7 If you change how you live, I will let you live in this place. It is the land that I gave to your ancestors, to be their home for ever." 
Jeremiah7:8 But look at how you live now! You believe in lies that cannot save you. 
Jeremiah7:9 You rob people. You murder people. You have sex with someone else's wife or husband. You tell lies in court when you have promised to tell the truth. You offer sacrifices to the false god, Baal. You serve other gods that you never knew before." 
Jeremiah7:10 You do that and then you come to meet me here, in my own house! You say, ‘We are safe!’" 
Jeremiah7:11 This is my temple! It is not a place where robbers can hide and be safe. Listen to me! I have seen the things that you have done.” That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah7:12 “Go to Shiloh, and see what I did there. It was the first place that I chose where people would worship me. But I destroyed it because of the wicked things that my people, the Israelites, did." 
Jeremiah7:13 You have done the same wicked things. I have warned you many times, but you have not listened to me. I called out to you, but you refused to answer.” That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah7:14 “So now I will destroy this temple that I chose to be my home. I gave this temple to you and to your ancestors. You think that it will keep you safe. But I will destroy it, as I destroyed Shiloh." 
Jeremiah7:15 I will send you far away from me. I already did that to the other Israelites, the people of Ephraim's tribe.” " 
Jeremiah7:16 Jeremiah, you must not pray for this people. Do not ask me to help them. If you ask me to save them, I will not listen to you." 
Jeremiah7:17 You can see what they are doing in Jerusalem and in all the towns of Judah. 
Jeremiah7:18 The children find wood and their fathers use it to light a fire. The women prepare flour to cook cakes. Then they offer them to the “Queen of Heaven ”. And they offer gifts of drink to other false gods. They do that to make me angry. 
Jeremiah7:19 But they are not hurting me. They are hurting themselves, and they will be ashamed.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah7:20 The Lord God says, ‘Because I am so angry, I will punish this land very much. It will be like a fire that nobody can stop. My punishment will destroy people, animals, trees and crops.’" 
Jeremiah7:21 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says this to Judah's people: ‘Eat the meat from your burnt offerings, as well as your other sacrifices. It makes no difference. You are not offering them to me!" 
Jeremiah7:22 Remember this: I brought your ancestors safely out of Egypt. Then I gave them my commands. Those commands were not only about burnt offerings and sacrifices. 
Jeremiah7:23 I also told them, “Obey me. Then I will be your God, and you will be my people. You must live in the way that I have commanded you. If you do that, you will enjoy your lives.”" 
Jeremiah7:24 But your ancestors refused to obey me. They did anything that their wicked thoughts made them want to do. They refused to return to me. Instead, they went further away." 
Jeremiah7:25 Since the time that your ancestors left Egypt, I have sent my servants, the prophets to speak to you. I have continued to do that many times, even until now." 
Jeremiah7:26 But my people did not listen to me. They have refused to obey me. They have continued to do evil things, even worse than their ancestors did.’" 
Jeremiah7:27 The Lord said to me, ‘Jeremiah, you must speak my message to them. But they will not listen to you. When you call out to them, they will not answer." 
Jeremiah7:28 So you must tell them, “The people of this nation have not obeyed the Lord their God. When I warned them, they have not agreed to change. Nobody does what is right. Nobody even speaks about what is true." 
Jeremiah7:29 Now show that you are upset. Cut off your hair and throw it away. Go to the tops of the hills and sing sad songs about death. Realize that today's people have made the Lord very angry. So he has decided to turn away from them and leave them.” ’ 
Jeremiah7:30 The Lord says, ‘The people of Judah have done things that I see are evil. They have put their disgusting idols in my temple. That is the place that I chose to be my special home, and they have made it unclean." 
Jeremiah7:31 They have built altars in Topheth, in Ben-Hinnom Valley. On those altars, they light fires to burn their sons and daughters as sacrifices. I never commanded them to do that. I never even thought about it." 
Jeremiah7:32 So listen to me! The time will soon come when people no longer call those places Topheth or Ben-Hinnom Valley. Instead, they will call it Death Valley. They will bury lots of dead people there. There will be no space left to bury any more people!" 
Jeremiah7:33 Then the bodies of dead people will lie on the ground. Birds and animals will come and eat them. There will be nobody to chase them away. 
Jeremiah7:34 Jerusalem and all of Judah will become like a desert where nobody lives. There will be no noise of happy people. There will be no happy songs or marriage parties. The whole land will be quiet.’ 
Jeremiah8:1 The Lord says, ‘At that time, your enemies will open the graves of your leaders and they will remove their bones. They will remove the bones of Judah's kings and their officers, as well as the priests and prophets. They will also remove the bones of the ordinary people of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah8:2 They will leave the bones all over the ground, under the sun, the moon and the stars. Those were the gods that my people loved. They served them and they worshipped them. Nobody will take their bones and bury them again. They will lie on the ground, like dung." 
Jeremiah8:3 The people of this wicked nation who are still alive will want to die. I will send them away as prisoners to other countries. They will not want to live in those places. They will all want to die.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Jeremiah8:4 ‘Jeremiah, tell the people that this is what I, the Lord, say to them: When people fall down, they get up again. When people realize that they are on the wrong road, they turn around." 
Jeremiah8:5 So why have the people of Jerusalem not turned back to me? They turn away from me all the time. They believe the lies of false gods, and they refuse to return to me." 
Jeremiah8:6 I have listened carefully to them, but they do not say what is right. They are not sorry for the wicked things that they have done. None of them say, “I have done something wrong.” They all continue to do what they want to do. They are like horses that are running into a battle." 
Jeremiah8:7 Even birds know when it is time for them to move to a different place. That is true for storks, doves, swallows and cranes. Birds know when it is time to return, but my people do not know my laws." 
Jeremiah8:8 You say, “We are wise because we have the Law of the Lord.” But I tell you, your teachers have changed my laws. They teach you lies instead." 
Jeremiah8:9 Those wise teachers will be ashamed and upset. Enemies will catch them as their prisoners. They have refused to accept the Lord 's message. So they are not really wise. 
Jeremiah8:10 I will give their wives to other men. Their fields will belong to other men. They all cheat other people to get what they want. Important people and ordinary people do that. Prophets and priests do that. They love to deceive people. 
Jeremiah8:11 They tell my dear people that their wounds are not bad. They say to them, “No problem! You will have peace.” But there will be no peace for my people." 
Jeremiah8:12 They are not ashamed of the disgusting things that they do. They do not even know what shame is. They have forgotten how to be ashamed. So they will fall to the ground, as other people have fallen. When I punish them, that will be the end of them.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah8:13 The Lord says, ‘I will take away the crops from their fields.’ ‘No figs or grapes will grow on their trees. The leaves on their trees will dry up and die. All the good things that I gave to them will disappear.’" 
Jeremiah8:14 The people say: ‘We should not sit here and do nothing. We must all go together into our strong cities. If we have to die, we will die there! The Lord our God has said that we must die. We have done bad things against him. He has decided to punish us with death. He has given us water to drink that has poison in it." 
Jeremiah8:15 We wanted to have peace, but nothing good has happened to us. We wanted to rest without trouble, but instead we are afraid." 
Jeremiah8:16 In the city of Dan, people can already hear the noise of the enemy's horses. They are coming to attack our land, so everyone shakes with fear. They will destroy the whole land and everything in it. They will destroy the cities and all the people who live in them.’" 
Jeremiah8:17 The Lord says, ‘Yes! I am sending an enemy's army to attack you. They will be like dangerous snakes that have poison. Nobody can stop them! They will bite you and kill you.’" 
Jeremiah8:18 I said, ‘I am very sad and upset. I will never become well again." 
Jeremiah8:19 Listen to my dear people! They are calling out for help everywhere in the land. They are saying, “Is the Lord still with us in Zion? Is he still there to rule us as our King?” ’ The Lord replies, ‘They worship images of false gods and useless foreign idols. That has made me very angry.’" 
Jeremiah8:20 The people say, ‘We have taken in all our crops from the fields. The summer has finished. And still nobody has rescued us.’" 
Jeremiah8:21 I am very upset because my dear people have so much pain. I weep and I cry, as if a friend had died." 
Jeremiah8:22 Surely there is a medicine in Gilead. There is a doctor there who can make my dear people better. But my people are still ill. Why are they not well? 
Jeremiah9:1 ‘My head should be like a pool of water. My eyes should be like a river of tears. Then I would never stop crying for my dear people who have died in war. 
Jeremiah9:2 I would like to live in a hut in the desert. Then I could leave my people. I could forget about them. They have all turned away from God. They have not been faithful to him. They are a crowd of people that nobody can trust.’ 
Jeremiah9:3 The Lord says, ‘The tongues of these people speak lies, like the bows of soldiers shoot arrows. They have become powerful in the land, but they have used lies to do that. They do more and more evil things, and they do not respect me." 
Jeremiah9:4 Be careful of your friends. Do not even trust your brothers! They will always try to cheat you. All your friends will speak lies about you. 
Jeremiah9:5 They deceive each other, and they never tell the truth. They have taught their tongues to speak lies. They love to do bad things and they cannot stop themselves." 
Jeremiah9:6 They hurt and they deceive each other. They do that more and more. They refuse to respect me.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah9:7 So the Lord Almighty says this: ‘Listen! I will test my people, like a man uses fire to make metal become pure. I must punish them like this because they are so wicked. There is nothing else that I can do!" 
Jeremiah9:8 Their tongues are like arrows that have poison. They hurt people with their lies. They speak kind words to their neighbours, but they are looking for a way to cheat them." 
Jeremiah9:9 I must certainly punish them for what they have done. I will pay back this wicked nation for their sins.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah9:10 ‘I will weep for the mountains. I will cry for the fields in the wilderness. There is no grass for the animals to eat. Nobody travels through those places. There is no sound of cows and sheep. The birds and the wild animals have all disappeared.’ 
Jeremiah9:11 The Lord replied, ‘I will make Jerusalem a heap of stones. Only wild animals will live there. I will destroy the towns of Judah so that nobody can live in them.’" 
Jeremiah9:12 I said, ‘Nobody is wise enough to understand this. The Lord has not told anyone, so that person can explain it to others. Why has our land become like a desert so that nobody travels through it? Does anyone know the answer?’" 
Jeremiah9:13 The Lord answered, ‘It is because my people have not accepted the laws that I gave to them. They have not obeyed me. They have not lived in the way that I told them to live." 
Jeremiah9:14 Instead, they have done whatever they wanted to do. They have served the gods of Baal, as their ancestors taught them to do.’" 
Jeremiah9:15 So the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says this: ‘I will punish my people so that they suffer. I will give them food that is bitter. They will drink water that is poison." 
Jeremiah9:16 I will send them away as prisoners. They will live among foreign nations that they had never heard about. Their ancestors had not heard about them either. I will send enemies to chase after them until I have destroyed them.’ 
Jeremiah9:17 The Lord Almighty said this: ‘Think about what is happening! Call the women who weep at funerals. Bring those women who know what to do.’ 
Jeremiah9:18 ‘Yes, tell them to come quickly to sing funeral songs for us. Then tears will pour from our eyes, and we will not stop weeping." 
Jeremiah9:19 Listen to the people who are crying in Jerusalem! They say, “A terrible thing has happened to us! We are very ashamed! Our enemies have destroyed our houses. Now we have to leave our land.” ’" 
Jeremiah9:20 ‘Now hear the Lord 's message, you women. Listen to what he says to you. Teach your daughters how to weep. Teach each other this funeral song:" 
Jeremiah9:21 “Death has come to visit us! It has come into our strong houses. Death has taken away our children who play in the streets. It has taken away our young men who meet together in the streets.” 
Jeremiah9:22 The Lord says this: Dead bodies of people will lie everywhere on the ground. They will lie there like dung that a farmer puts on his fields. They will lie there like crops at harvest time that nobody has picked up.’ 
Jeremiah9:23 The Lord says, ‘Wise people should not be proud of their wisdom. Powerful people should not be proud of their power. And rich people should not be proud that they are rich." 
Jeremiah9:24 If they want to be proud about something, they should be proud that they know me. They should boast that they understand who I am. I am the Lord. I am faithful in my love for my people. I always do what is right and fair. It makes me happy when people live in that way too.’" 
Jeremiah9:25 The Lord says, ‘Be careful! Very soon I will punish all people who do not respect me. Those people may be circumcised, but if they do not respect me, I will punish them." 
Jeremiah9:26 Those people include the Egyptians, the Edomites, the Ammonites, the Moabites and the people of Judah. I will also punish the people who live in the desert and who cut their hair short. Those people are not circumcised to give honour to me. The Israelites are the same. Their bodies are circumcised, but they do not want to obey my covenant with them.’" 
Jeremiah10:1 People of Israel, listen to what the Lord says to you." 
Jeremiah10:2 The Lord says, ‘Do not copy the way that people of other nations live. They are afraid of strange things that they see in the sky. But you must not be afraid of those things." 
Jeremiah10:3 The customs of those people are useless. They cut down a tree in the forest. A worker uses his tools to make it into an idol. 
Jeremiah10:4 He covers it with silver and gold to make it look beautiful. He uses nails to fix it together so that it will not fall down. 
Jeremiah10:5 Those idols cannot speak. They are like scarecrows that a farmer puts in his field of vegetables. The idols cannot walk, so people have to carry them. So do not be afraid of them. They cannot hurt you. And they do not have any power to help you.’" 
Jeremiah10:6 There is nobody like you, Lord. You are great and your name shows your power." 
Jeremiah10:7 Everyone should respect you, the King who rules all the nations. You deserve that people give you honour. There is nobody like you anywhere in the world. Among all the wise people of the nations and among all their kings, there is no one like you." 
Jeremiah10:8 The people of those nations are stupid and foolish. They think that wooden idols can teach them something! 
Jeremiah10:9 They bring thin silver from Spain. They bring gold from Uphaz. Workers who know how to use wood and metal make the idols look beautiful. They put valuable blue and purple clothes on the idols. Workers who have special skills do this. 
Jeremiah10:10 But the Lord is the only true God. He is the God who is alive. He is the King who rules for ever. When he is angry, the earth shakes. None of the nations can stop his anger." 
Jeremiah10:11 Tell the nations this: ‘Your gods did not make the earth or the sky. They will disappear completely from everywhere on earth and everywhere in the sky.’ 
Jeremiah10:12 But the Lord used his power to make the earth. He used his wisdom to make it strong. He knew how to put the sky to cover the earth. 
Jeremiah10:13 When he shouts like thunder, the water in the sky roars. He causes clouds to rise from the far places of the earth. He causes bright lightning to show in the storms. He opens his rooms so that the wind comes out and it blows everywhere." 
Jeremiah10:14 People who worship idols are stupid. They do not understand what they are doing. The men who make idols will be ashamed. They make images of gods that are false. None of their idols have the breath of life in them. 
Jeremiah10:15 They are useless things that people should laugh at. When the time for their punishment arrives, God will destroy them." 
Jeremiah10:16 The God that Jacob's descendants worship is not like those idols. He created everything. He chose the Israelites as the people who would belong to him. His name is the Lord Almighty. 
Jeremiah10:17 Your enemies are all around and they are ready to attack you. So get all your things together. Prepare to leave your country. 
Jeremiah10:18 This is what the Lord says: ‘I will now throw out the people who live in this land. I will bring much trouble to them, and they will be in pain.’" 
Jeremiah10:19 ‘A terrible thing has happened to us! We have received a very bad wound. We thought, “We are very ill, but one day we will get better.”" 
Jeremiah10:20 But now they have destroyed our tent. They have broken the ropes that held it. Our children have gone, and none of them remain. There is nobody still alive who can help us build our homes again." 
Jeremiah10:21 Our leaders are fools. They do not ask the Lord for his advice. So they have failed to take care of us, and all their people have disappeared." 
Jeremiah10:22 Listen! We have heard the news! There is the noise of a great army in the north. It is marching towards us! It is coming to attack the towns of Judah. It will make them heaps of stones. Only wild animals will live in them. 
Jeremiah10:23 Lord, I know that nobody controls their own life. Nobody can decide what will happen to them." 
Jeremiah10:24 Lord, teach us what is right, but do it carefully. Please do not punish us in your anger. That would be the end of us." 
Jeremiah10:25 Instead, be angry with the nations that do not respect you. Be angry with the people who do not worship you. Those are the people who have destroyed Jacob's descendants. They have killed our people. They have destroyed our land and our homes.’" 
Jeremiah11:1 The Lord gave this message to Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah11:2 ‘Listen to the rules of the covenant that I made with my people. Tell them to the people who live in Jerusalem and the other towns in Judah. 
Jeremiah11:3 Tell them that the Lord, Israel's God, says, “I will curse anyone who does not obey the rules of this covenant." 
Jeremiah11:4 I gave those rules to your ancestors when I brought them safely out of Egypt. That place was like a hot oven where they were in great pain. At that time, I said to them, ‘Obey me and do everything that I command you to do. If you obey my covenant with you, you will be my people and I will be your God." 
Jeremiah11:5 I will do what I promised to your ancestors. I promised to give them a land where there was plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone.’ That is the land that you still live in today.” ’ I answered, ‘ Amen, Lord, I would like that to happen.’" 
Jeremiah11:6 The Lord said to me, ‘Speak all these words in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem: “Listen to the rules of my covenant with you. Obey them!" 
Jeremiah11:7 I clearly warned your ancestors that they must obey me. I warned them many times since I brought them safely out of Egypt. I have continued to do that, even until today." 
Jeremiah11:8 But they did not listen to me. They did not agree to obey my covenant. Instead, they continued to do all the wicked things that they wanted to do. They would not change how they lived. So I punished them in the way that the covenant said they deserved. I had commanded them to obey the rules of the covenant, and they did not do that.” ’" 
Jeremiah11:9 The Lord said to me, ‘The people of Judah and those who live in Jerusalem have decided to turn against me." 
Jeremiah11:10 They are doing the same evil things that their ancestors did. Their ancestors refused to obey my commands. These people do that, and they also serve and worship other gods. I made a covenant with their ancestors. But the nations of Judah and Israel have refused to obey that covenant." 
Jeremiah11:11 So now, I, the Lord, say this: “I will bring great trouble to these people. They will not be able to escape. When they call out to me for help, I will not listen to them." 
Jeremiah11:12 The people who live in Jerusalem and in the other towns of Judah will ask their false gods to help them. Those are the gods that they offer sacrifices to. But when this terrible trouble comes, those gods will never be able to rescue them." 
Jeremiah11:13 You people of Judah have as many gods as you have towns! You have built many altars to offer sacrifices to that disgusting god, Baal. You have built as many of those altars as there are streets in Jerusalem!”" 
Jeremiah11:14 So, Jeremiah, do not pray for these people. Do not ask me to do anything to help them. Do not ask me to save them. When trouble comes and they ask me for help, I will not listen to them." 
Jeremiah11:15 The people that I love are doing wicked things. They should not be in my temple. They think that they will be safe if they offer animal sacrifices to me. They enjoy the evil things that they do, and their punishment will certainly happen." 
Jeremiah11:16 I, the Lord, called you a beautiful olive tree. It was a tree that gave lots of good fruit. But now I will destroy you with fire. The flames will make a loud noise. All your branches will be useless." 
Jeremiah11:17 I, the Lord Almighty, planted you in the land, like a tree. But now you have caused me to be angry. You nations of Israel and Judah have done evil things. You have offered sacrifices to Baal. So now I have decided to punish you with great trouble.’" 
Jeremiah11:18 The Lord showed me what the people were doing. He helped me to understood what was really happening. 
Jeremiah11:19 Before that, I did not know about their plans to kill me. I was like a lamb that men were taking away to kill it. I did not know that they were saying, ‘We should cut down this tree and destroy its fruit! Jeremiah must not continue to live in this world. Then people will forget all about him.’" 
Jeremiah11:20 So I said, ‘ Lord Almighty, you judge people in a fair way. You know what people are thinking. You understand how they feel. I trust you to show that I have not done anything that is wrong. So please punish these people. Pay them back for their sins.’" 
Jeremiah11:21 The Lord spoke about some men in Anathoth who wanted to kill me. They were saying to me, ‘Stop telling us messages from the Lord! If you do not stop, we will kill you.’" 
Jeremiah11:22 So the Lord Almighty said, ‘Yes, I will certainly punish them! Their young men will die as they fight in war. Their children will be so hungry that they die." 
Jeremiah11:23 All those men in Anathoth who wanted to kill you will die. At the right time, I will punish them with great trouble.’" 
Jeremiah12:1 Lord, when I complain to you, you always do what is right. But I must ask you about your justice. Why do wicked people have success in life? Why do people who cheat their friends live in comfort?" 
Jeremiah12:2 They are like trees that you have planted. They have strong roots. They produce good fruits. Those people like to talk about you a lot, but they do not really love you." 
Jeremiah12:3 But you know everything about me, Lord. You watch me carefully to test me. You know what I am thinking. You should kill those wicked men, as they deserve! Take them away like sheep, to kill them when the time is right." 
Jeremiah12:4 Our land has been dry for a long time. The grass everywhere is dying. How long will this continue? The animals and the birds are dying. This has happened because the people who live in this land do wicked things. They like to boast, ‘God will not see what happens to us.’" 
Jeremiah12:5 ‘Jeremiah, you are running a race against people, and you are already tired! So you will never be able to run a race against horses. You are walking in flat fields, and you still fall over! So it will be much worse when you try to run through the trees and bushes near the Jordan River." 
Jeremiah12:6 Even your own brothers and family have turned against you. They join with other people to attack you. So do not trust them, even when they say kind words to you." 
Jeremiah12:7 I have decided to turn away from my nation. I will leave the people that I chose to belong to me. I will put the people that I love under the power of their enemies. 
Jeremiah12:8 The people that belong to me have turned against me. They are like a lion that hides in the forest. It roars and is ready to attack me. Because of that, I have turned against my people." 
Jeremiah12:9 They attack me like hyenas, but vultures are ready to attack them. Tell all the wild animals to come, so that they can eat their dead bodies!" 
Jeremiah12:10 Many foreign leaders will come. They will destroy the land where my people live. It was a beautiful garden where I planted my people. But enemies will make it become like a desert. 
Jeremiah12:11 They will make it a dry and empty place, where nobody lives and nothing grows. The whole land will be like a desert. There will be nobody to take care of it." 
Jeremiah12:12 Soldiers will march over the hills in the wilderness. They will come to destroy the whole land. I, the Lord, will use them as my weapon. I will punish everyone. Nobody will be safe." 
Jeremiah12:13 My people will plant seeds of wheat, but they will only have weeds at harvest time. They will work very hard, but they will get nothing. At harvest time, they will have no crops to be proud of. Because I am very angry, they will not have any food.’" 
Jeremiah12:14 This is what the Lord says: ‘I will punish the wicked nations that came to attack the land of my people. It was the land that I gave to Israel's people to be their home. But those enemies destroyed it. So I will remove them from their own lands. I will rescue the people of Judah from among them. 
Jeremiah12:15 But after I have removed those nations, I will return to help them. I will be kind to them. I will bring them back to the countries where they belong. Each nation will return to live in its own land." 
Jeremiah12:16 But they must learn to live in the way that my people live. At one time they taught my people to use Baal's name when they made promises. But now they must give honour to me as the true God. When they make a promise, they must say, “I promise to do this, as surely as the Lord lives.” If they do these things, they will belong among my people." 
Jeremiah12:17 But if any nation refuses to obey me, I will destroy it completely.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah13:1 The Lord said to me, ‘Go and buy a linen belt. Tie it around your body. But do not put it into water.’" 
Jeremiah13:2 So I bought a belt, as the Lord had told me to do. I tied it around me." 
Jeremiah13:3 The Lord spoke to me again. 
Jeremiah13:4 He said, ‘Take the belt that you bought and you are now wearing. Take it now to Perath. Hide it there in a hole in the rocks.’" 
Jeremiah13:5 So I went to Perath. I hid it there, as the Lord had commanded me to do." 
Jeremiah13:6 Many days after that, the Lord said to me, ‘Now go to Perath again. Get the belt that I told you to hide there.’" 
Jeremiah13:7 So I went back to Perath. I dug out the belt from the place where I had hidden it. But it had become spoiled. I could not use it any more. 
Jeremiah13:8 Then the Lord said to me," 
Jeremiah13:9 ‘I, the Lord, tell you this: See what happened to your belt. Now I will destroy everything that the people of Judah and Jerusalem are proud of." 
Jeremiah13:10 Those wicked people refuse to listen to my words. They do whatever they want to do. They are too proud to change. They serve other gods and they worship them. Now they will become as useless as this linen belt. 
Jeremiah13:11 I tell you this. My people should have been like a belt for me. I held all the people of Israel and all the people of Judah very near to me. I chose them to be my special people. They should have respected me and given me honour so that people would praise me. But they refused to obey me. 
Jeremiah13:12 You must tell them, “The Lord, Israel's God, says this: People make wine bottles so that they can fill them with wine.” They may answer, “We know that is why people make wine bottles. Everyone knows that!”" 
Jeremiah13:13 Then tell them, “Now I will fill all the people who live in this land. I will fill the kings from David's family, the prophets, the priests and the people who live in Jerusalem. Yes, I will fill them all with so much wine that they become drunk!" 
Jeremiah13:14 I will knock them against each other, so that they break like bottles. I will punish everyone, parents and their children. I will not be sorry for them and I will not be kind to them. I will destroy them, and nothing can stop me.” That is what the Lord says.’" 
Jeremiah13:15 ‘Listen carefully to me. Do not be too proud to listen! The Lord has spoken to you. 
Jeremiah13:16 Give honour to the Lord your God, before it is too late. Do it before he makes everywhere become dark. Then you will fall down, like someone who walks on the mountains at night. You may hope for light to come, but God will make it completely dark." 
Jeremiah13:17 If you refuse to listen to God's message, I will hide myself and I will weep. Because you are so proud, tears will pour from my eyes. I will cry because the Lord has sent his own people away as prisoners to a foreign land." 
Jeremiah13:18 Tell the king and his mother, “Come down from your thrones. Your beautiful crowns will soon fall from your heads.”" 
Jeremiah13:19 The cities in the south of Judah will keep their gates shut. Nobody will go in or out of the cities. Enemies will take the people of Judah away as prisoners. They will take them all into exile. 
Jeremiah13:20 Leaders of Jerusalem, look up! See the enemy that is coming from the north. What has happened to your people? You were proud of them and you should have taken care of them. You are like shepherds who have lost their sheep." 
Jeremiah13:21 The Lord will choose other people to rule over you. They are people that you wanted to be your friends, but now they will have power over you. So what will you say about that? You will be afraid and in much pain, like a woman who is giving birth to a baby." 
Jeremiah13:22 You may ask, “Why are these things happening to me?” It is because of your many terrible sins. Like an adulteress, they have torn off your dress to make you ashamed." 
Jeremiah13:23 You have done evil things for a long time. So you cannot now start to do good things. Can anyone change the colour of his skin? Can a leopard remove the marks on its body? No! And you cannot change yourselves either.’ 
Jeremiah13:24 The Lord says, ‘I will blow you away, as a hot desert wind blows away straw." 
Jeremiah13:25 That is how I have decided to punish you. It is what you deserve because you have forgotten me. You have trusted in false gods. 
Jeremiah13:26 So I will cause you to be very ashamed, like a woman whose dress they have removed." 
Jeremiah13:27 People of Jerusalem, you are in terrible trouble! I have seen the disgusting things that you do. You are like a woman who has not been faithful to her husband. Like a prostitute, you look for other gods to serve. You cannot control yourselves, as you do disgusting things on the hills and in the fields. Will you never be clean and pure again?’" 
Jeremiah14:1 This is the Lord 's message that he gave to Jeremiah about the famine: 
Jeremiah14:2 ‘Judah's people are very sad and upset. The people in Judah's cities are becoming weak. They are sitting on the ground and they are weeping. Jerusalem's people call to me for help. 
Jeremiah14:3 Rich people send their servants to get water. They go to the wells, but they do not find any water. They return home with empty water jars. They are ashamed and upset. They hide their faces in their hands." 
Jeremiah14:4 There has been no rain anywhere. The ground is breaking apart. The farmers too are very upset. They hide their faces in their hands. 
Jeremiah14:5 There is no grass in the fields for the deer to eat. So the mother deer runs away from her new baby. 
Jeremiah14:6 Wild donkeys stand on the empty hills. They breathe very fast, like thirsty jackals. Their eyes hurt as they look for grass, but there is no food for them to eat.’" 
Jeremiah14:7 ‘ Lord, our many sins show that we are guilty. But please help us, to show that you are our God. We have turned away from you many times. We have done bad things against you." 
Jeremiah14:8 You are the one that we Israelites hope to give us help. You are the one who saves us when we are in trouble. But now you live among us like a foreigner. You are like a visitor who stays for only one night. 
Jeremiah14:9 You seem to be like a helpless person. You are like a brave fighter who has lost his strength to save anyone. But surely you are among us, Lord. We belong to you as your own people. Do not leave us alone!’" 
Jeremiah14:10 The Lord says this about his people: ‘These people love to go wherever they want. They do not try to stay near to me. So they do not please me. Now I will remember the wrong things that they have done. I will punish them for their sins.’ 
Jeremiah14:11 The Lord said to me, ‘Do not pray that I will do any more good things for these people." 
Jeremiah14:12 Even if they fast, I will not listen when they ask me for help. I will not accept the burnt offerings or grain offerings that they offer to me. Instead, I will use war, famine and disease to destroy them.’" 
Jeremiah14:13 I said, ‘ Lord God, the prophets are deceiving the people. They say that there will not be any war or famine or disease that will hurt the people. Instead, they say that you have promised peace in our land.’" 
Jeremiah14:14 The Lord said to me, ‘Those prophets say that they speak my messages, but they are telling lies. I did not send them. I did not give them my authority. I did not give them any messages. They are deceiving people with the visions that they talk about. When they speak these messages, it means nothing. They only speak about their own foolish ideas." 
Jeremiah14:15 They say that they speak with my authority, but I did not send them. They say that there will be no war or famine. So I tell you, this is what will happen to those prophets: war and famine will kill them." 
Jeremiah14:16 And the people that they are speaking their messages to will also die because of war and famine. Their bodies will lie in Jerusalem's streets. Nobody will be there to bury them. This will happen to the men, their wives, their sons and their daughters. I will punish them as they deserve, because they are so wicked." 
Jeremiah14:17 Say this to the people, Jeremiah: “ Tears pour from my eyes all the time. I weep through each day and each night. I am sad about my own dear people. A great trouble has knocked them to the ground. They have received a very bad wound." 
Jeremiah14:18 When I go out into the fields, I see the bodies of people who have died in war. When I look in the city, I see people who are dying from famine. The prophets and the priests are busy with their work. But they do not understand what is happening.” ’" 
Jeremiah14:19 ‘ Lord, have you completely turned away from the people of Judah? Do you really hate the people of Zion? You have knocked us down so that we will never get better. We hoped to live in peace, but nothing good happened to us. We hoped to have rest from our troubles, but instead we live in fear." 
Jeremiah14:20 Lord, we agree that we are wicked people. Our ancestors also did bad things. We have turned against you." 
Jeremiah14:21 But please do not refuse to help us. Show that you are a faithful God. Jerusalem is the place where you have your beautiful throne. So do not go away and leave us. Remember the covenant that you made with us. Please do what you promised to do for us. 
Jeremiah14:22 The idols of other nations are useless. None of them can cause rain to fall. And the sky itself does not make rain. No, it is you, Lord, our God, who sends rain. You alone do all these things, so we trust you to help us.’" 
Jeremiah15:1 The Lord said to me, ‘Even if Moses and Samuel asked me not to punish these people, I would not agree. I still would not help them. Send them away! I do not want to see them again!" 
Jeremiah15:2 They may ask you, “Where should we go?” Then tell them, “This is what the Lord says: Those who should become ill and die will die. Those who should die in war will die in war. Those who should die from famine will die from famine. Those who should go away as prisoners will go away as prisoners.” " 
Jeremiah15:3 I will send four kinds of punishments to hurt them. Soldiers will kill them in war. Dogs will carry away their dead bodies. Birds and wild animals will eat them and destroy them. 
Jeremiah15:4 I will cause the people of all nations to think that the people of Judah are disgusting. That will be because of the evil things that the king of Judah, Hezekiah's son, Manasseh, did in Jerusalem.’" 
Jeremiah15:5 The Lord said, ‘People of Jerusalem, nobody will feel sorry for you. Nobody will weep for you. Nobody will stop to ask how you are." 
Jeremiah15:6 I tell you this: You have turned away from me. You continue to go further away from me. So I will prepare to use my power to destroy you. I can no longer be kind to you. 
Jeremiah15:7 I will punish the people of every town in the land. I will blow them away, like wind blows away straw. My people have refused to change the way that they live. So I will destroy them and their children too." 
Jeremiah15:8 There will be more widows in Judah than there is sand on the shore of the sea. At midday I will send an enemy to destroy the young men. Their mothers will weep for them. It will happen very suddenly. Fear and terror will come! 
Jeremiah15:9 A mother will feel very weak, because all her seven children have died. It is difficult for her even to breathe. She has lost the children that made her happy, while they were still young. She will be ashamed and without honour. I will send your enemies to kill any of your people who are still alive.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah15:10 ‘This is terrible for me! I am very sad, mother, that you gave birth to me. I cause trouble and arguments wherever I go in the land. I never lend money to people, and I do not ask them to lend money to me. But everyone curses me anyway.’" 
Jeremiah15:11 The Lord said, ‘I will take care of you so that it brings something good for you. I will cause your enemies to ask you for help. They will come to you when they are in trouble." 
Jeremiah15:12 Your enemy that comes from the north is like a weapon made from iron and bronze. You will never break it. 
Jeremiah15:13 I will give all your valuable things to your enemies. They will take them all away. You will receive nothing in return. That will pay for the sins that you have done everywhere in your land. 
Jeremiah15:14 Your enemies will make you their slaves in a land that you do not know. I will punish you as if in a hot fire, because I am very angry with you.’" 
Jeremiah15:15 ‘ Lord, you understand my problems. Remember me and take care of me. Please punish those people who hate me. Do not be so patient with them that they kill me. Remember that they have insulted me because I am serving you." 
Jeremiah15:16 As your words came to me, I took them into me like sweet food. I belong to you, Lord, God Almighty, so your words made me very happy." 
Jeremiah15:17 When people were enjoying wild parties, I did not join with them. I sat alone, because you held me. You caused me to be angry with those people." 
Jeremiah15:18 I am in pain which never ends. People have hurt me and nothing makes it better. Why are you not there to help me? You are like a stream that becomes dry and it has no water.’ 
Jeremiah15:19 So the Lord said this to me: ‘If you turn back to me, I will help you to be strong. Then you can continue to serve me. Speak valuable words instead of useless words. Then you can speak on my behalf. These people must change to be like you have been. You must not change to become like them." 
Jeremiah15:20 When these people attack you, I will make you like a strong wall. You will be like a wall that is made of bronze. The people will not be able to knock you down. I will be with you to protect you. I will keep you safe.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah15:21 ‘I will rescue you from the power of those wicked people. I will keep you safe from those cruel people.’ 
Jeremiah16:1 The Lord said to me," 
Jeremiah16:2 ‘You must not marry in this place. You must not have sons or daughters here. 
Jeremiah16:3 I will tell you what will happen to children who are born here and what will happen to their parents. 
Jeremiah16:4 Terrible disease will kill them. Nobody will weep for them. Nobody will bury them. Their bodies will lie on the ground like dung. Either war or famine will kill them. Birds and wild animals will come to eat their dead bodies.’ 
Jeremiah16:5 The Lord also said to me, ‘Do not go into a house where they are eating a funeral meal. Do not join with them to weep because someone in the family has died. I have removed my blessing and my faithful love from these people. I will no longer be kind to them. That is what I say." 
Jeremiah16:6 When people die, nobody will bury them, whether they are rich people or poor people. Nobody will weep for them. People will not cut their bodies because they are upset. They will not cut the hair from their heads." 
Jeremiah16:7 Nobody will take food to comfort families when someone has died. Even if their mother or their father has died, nobody will bring any wine to comfort them." 
Jeremiah16:8 Do not join with people who are eating a feast because they are happy. Do not go into their house to eat and drink with them. 
Jeremiah16:9 I, the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, tell you what I will do. I will stop their happy songs and their marriage parties in this place. You will see this happen while you are still alive." 
Jeremiah16:10 Tell the people everything that I have said. Then they will ask you, “Why has the Lord told us that he will punish us so much? What wrong things have we done? What sin have we done against the Lord, our God?”" 
Jeremiah16:11 Then you must tell them what I say: “It is because your ancestors turned against me. They went to other gods. They worshipped and they served those gods. They turned against me and they did not obey my Law. 
Jeremiah16:12 And you have done even more wicked things than your ancestors! You do any wicked thing that you want to do. You refuse to change. You do not obey me. 
Jeremiah16:13 So I will throw you out of this land. I will send you away to a land that you and your ancestors never knew. There you will worship other gods, as much as you like. I will no longer help you.” ’" 
Jeremiah16:14 The Lord also said, ‘Listen! A better time will come. When people make a promise, they will not say, “I promise to do this as surely as the Lord lives, who brought the Israelites safely out of Egypt.”" 
Jeremiah16:15 Instead they will say, “I promise to do this as surely as the Lord lives, who brought the Israelites safely back from the land in the north. He brought them back from all the places that he had sent them to as prisoners.” Yes, at that time I will bring them back to this land that I gave to their ancestors." 
Jeremiah16:16 But now I will send enemies to catch these people. They will catch them like fishermen catch fish. They will chase after them like hunters who catch wild animals. They will find them everywhere in the mountains, in the hills and in holes in the rocks." 
Jeremiah16:17 I am watching them carefully all the time. They cannot hide from me. I can see all their sins. 
Jeremiah16:18 I will punish them for their sins. I will make them pay twice for the wrong things that they have done. That is because they have spoiled my land. They have made it unclean with their disgusting idols that have no life. They have filled my special land with the evil things that they have done.’ 
Jeremiah16:19 Lord, you give me strength. You are the safe place where I can hide. When I am in trouble, I can run to you and be safe. People will come from nations all over the earth, to give you honour. They will say, ‘Our ancestors worshipped false gods. Those gods were useless and they could not help us." 
Jeremiah16:20 Can people make gods for themselves? If they make them, they are not really gods.’" 
Jeremiah16:21 ‘So I, the Lord, will teach these people about my great power. Then they will understand that I am the Lord, the true God.’" 
Jeremiah17:1 ‘The people of Judah love to do bad things. Their sins are deep inside them. It is like they are written on their hearts and on the horns of their altars. They are written with an iron pen. Nobody can remove the list of their sins. 
Jeremiah17:2 Even their children always think about their altars where they worship false gods. They have put up their Asherah poles under the big trees and on the high hills. 
Jeremiah17:3 They also worship their false gods on the mountains and in the fields. So I will cause enemies to take all your valuable things. They will take your riches for themselves. That will be the price that you pay for your sins. You have done evil things everywhere in the land. 
Jeremiah17:4 I gave you this land to be your home for ever. But it will no longer belong to you. Your enemies will take you to a land that you do not know. You will be their slaves. You have made me very angry, like a fire that nobody can stop.’" 
Jeremiah17:5 The Lord says, ‘I will curse those who only trust people to help them. They think that human strength will save them, and they turn away from me, the Lord." 
Jeremiah17:6 They will be like a bush that grows in the desert. It grows in a place where nobody can live. The ground is very dry and is spoiled by salt. Even when good times come, those people will not receive any good thing." 
Jeremiah17:7 The Lord blesses people who trust in him. They know that the Lord will help them. 
Jeremiah17:8 They will be like trees that grow beside a river. Their roots reach into the water. When the sun is hot, they are not afraid. Their leaves continue to be green. They give fruit each year, even when there is no rain." 
Jeremiah17:9 A person's own mind deceives him, more than anything else does. Nobody can change it to be better. Nobody completely understands it." 
Jeremiah17:10 But I, the Lord, look inside a person's mind. I see what he thinks and what he feels. I see how everyone lives, and I see the things that they do. I give to each one what he deserves." 
Jeremiah17:11 Someone may get rich because he cheats other people. He is like a bird that sits on eggs that it has taken from another nest. He will lose his riches before he is old. At the end of his life, he will die as a fool.’" 
Jeremiah17:12 Lord, your beautiful throne is high above. You have ruled there from the beginning. That is where we worship you." 
Jeremiah17:13 You are the one that the Israelites hope in. Everyone who turns away from you will be ashamed. They will disappear, as if their names are written in the dust. Lord, you give life to your people, like a spring of fresh water. But they have turned against you." 
Jeremiah17:14 Lord, please make me well again. Then I will be completely well. Rescue me so that I am completely safe. You are the one that I praise!" 
Jeremiah17:15 People are asking me questions. They say, ‘Nothing has happened to us yet! When will the Lord 's message become true?’" 
Jeremiah17:16 Lord, I have not stopped taking care of your people. I have never asked you to destroy them on one final day. You know that, and you know everything that I have said." 
Jeremiah17:17 Please do not make me afraid! When I am in trouble, I run to you to be safe." 
Jeremiah17:18 Please bring shame on those who want to hurt me. Do not make me ashamed. Make those people afraid, but do not make me afraid. Destroy them with a time of great trouble. Punish them completely!" 
Jeremiah17:19 The Lord said to me, ‘Go and stand at the gate of the city that is called “The People's Gate”. That is the gate that the kings of Judah use to go in and out of the city. Then go and stand at the other gates of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah17:20 Stand in those places and say, “Listen, you kings of Judah, everyone who lives in Jerusalem and all the people of Judah. Hear this message from the Lord." 
Jeremiah17:21 This is what the Lord says: Be careful to obey these rules if you want to continue to live! On a Sabbath day, do not carry any loads in through the gates of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah17:22 Do not carry any loads out of your houses. Do not do any work on a Sabbath day. You must keep the Sabbath day as a special day for me. That is what I commanded your ancestors to do. 
Jeremiah17:23 But they did not listen to me and they did not obey me. They refused to accept the rules that I gave to them. When I warned them, they would not change.”" 
Jeremiah17:24 The Lord says, “But you must be careful to obey me. Do not carry any loads through the gates of this city on a Sabbath day. You must keep the Sabbath day as a special day for me. Do not do any work on a Sabbath day." 
Jeremiah17:25 If you obey me, kings from David's family will continue to rule. Kings and their officers will pass through these gates, together with the people of Jerusalem and all Judah. They will ride on horses and in chariots. Many people will always live in this city." 
Jeremiah17:26 People will come here from everywhere in Judah. They will bring offerings to the Lord 's temple. They will come from Judah's towns and from the villages around Jerusalem. They will come from the land that belongs to Benjamin's tribe. They will come from the low hills in the west and from the hill country and the wilderness in the south. They will bring burnt offerings, grain offerings, other sacrifices and incense. They will offer sacrifices to the Lord to thank him." 
Jeremiah17:27 But you must remember to obey me. You must keep the Sabbath day as a special day for me. You must not carry any loads in through Jerusalem's gates on a Sabbath day. If you do not obey this rule, I will burn Jerusalem's gates with fire. The fire will destroy all the strong buildings in Jerusalem. Nobody will be able to stop that fire.” ’" 
Jeremiah18:1 The Lord gave this message to Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah18:2 ‘Go down to the potter's house. I will tell you my message there.’ 
Jeremiah18:3 So I went down to the potter's house. He was working at his wheel. 
Jeremiah18:4 He was using clay to make pots with his hands. But, as he worked, sometimes a pot had the wrong shape. So he used the clay to make it into another pot. He made it in the shape that he wanted." 
Jeremiah18:5 Then the Lord told me his message. 
Jeremiah18:6 He said, ‘I tell you this. I can do to you, nation of Israel, the same thing that this potter does with his clay. I hold you in my hands, as the potter holds the clay in his hands." 
Jeremiah18:7 Sometimes I may warn a nation or a kingdom that I will knock it down and destroy it. 
Jeremiah18:8 But when I warn them, those people might stop doing wicked things. Then I would not punish them as I had promised to do." 
Jeremiah18:9 Sometimes I may promise to build up a nation or a kingdom and make it strong. 
Jeremiah18:10 But those people might start to do evil things. They might stop obeying me. Then I would not help them as I had promised to do. 
Jeremiah18:11 So now you must speak to the people who live in Jerusalem and in all of Judah. Tell them that the Lord says this: “Listen to me! I will cause great trouble for you. I have decided to punish you. So you must all stop doing the evil things that you have been doing. Change the way that you live and do things that are right.” 
Jeremiah18:12 But they will say, “Do not try to stop us! We will do whatever we want to do. We will continue to do wicked things.” ’" 
Jeremiah18:13 So the Lord says this: ‘Go and ask the people of other nations! Have they ever heard about anything as terrible as this? My people, Israel, should have been pure. But they have done a disgusting thing!" 
Jeremiah18:14 There is always snow on Lebanon's mountains. Cold streams of water always pour down from those high rocks. 
Jeremiah18:15 Those things never change, but my people have forgotten me. They offer sacrifices to useless idols. Because of that, they live in a wrong way. They have left the good paths that their ancestors knew. Instead, they walk along narrow paths that nobody takes care of." 
Jeremiah18:16 So I will cause their land to become a terrible place. People will always see how disgusting my people are. Everybody who goes near there will be very surprised. They will shake their heads and they will insult my people. 
Jeremiah18:17 I will send enemies to attack them. They will chase my people away, like an east wind that blows away dust. I will turn away from them when that day of great trouble arrives. I will refuse to help them.’" 
Jeremiah18:18 Then some people said, ‘We must find a way to stop Jeremiah. We do not need him. The priests will still be here to teach us. Wise men will still be here to give us advice. The prophets will still be here to give us God's messages. We must accuse Jeremiah of bad things. Then we will not have to listen to him any more.’" 
Jeremiah18:19 ‘Please listen to me, Lord! Hear what my enemies are saying against me." 
Jeremiah18:20 I have done good things for them, but they are paying me back with evil things. They have already dug a grave for me! Remember that I stood in front of you and I asked you to forgive them. I asked you not to be angry with them." 
Jeremiah18:21 So now I ask you to punish them! Yes, may famine kill their children. May they die in war. May wives no longer have husbands or children. May disease kill the old men. May the young men die in battle." 
Jeremiah18:22 Send people to attack them suddenly and rob them in their homes. Then they will shout aloud in great fear. They have dug a hole for me to fall into. They have prepared traps to catch me. 
Jeremiah18:23 But Lord, you know how they want to kill me. They are guilty, so do not forgive them. Do not forget to punish them for their sins. Put them under your power! Punish them while you are still angry!’" 
Jeremiah19:1 The Lord said to me, ‘Go to a potter. Buy from him a pot that he has made from clay. Take with you some leaders of the people and some leaders of the priests." 
Jeremiah19:2 Go out into Ben-Hinnom Valley, which is near to the “Broken Pots” gate. There you must speak the words that I will tell you." 
Jeremiah19:3 Say, “Hear the Lord 's message, you kings of Judah and people who live in Jerusalem. The Lord Almighty, Israel's God says this: Listen to me! I will bring very great trouble to this place. It will be very bad. Everyone who hears about it will be very surprised." 
Jeremiah19:4 That will happen because Judah's people have turned away from me. They worship foreign gods in this place. They have offered sacrifices to those gods. They are gods that their ancestors did not know about. The kings of Judah never knew about them either. In this place, Judah's people have killed people who did not deserve to die." 
Jeremiah19:5 They have built altars here to give honour to Baal. They light fires to give their children to Baal as burnt offerings. I never commanded my people to offer those kinds of sacrifices. I never even thought about it. 
Jeremiah19:6 So I tell you this. A time will soon come when people do not call this place Topheth or Ben-Hinnom Valley. Instead, they will call it Death Valley." 
Jeremiah19:7 I will spoil all the ideas that the people of Judah and Jerusalem have. In this place I will put them under the power of their enemies. Their enemies will kill them in war. I will give their dead bodies as food to the birds and the wild animals. 
Jeremiah19:8 I will make this city a heap of stones. People will see how disgusting my people are. Everybody who goes near there will be very surprised. They will see all the terrible trouble that has happened to the city and they will insult it. 
Jeremiah19:9 Enemies will make their camp all around the city, so that they can kill the people who live there. The people will not have any food to eat. They will be so hungry that they will eat their own children and they will eat each other.” " 
Jeremiah19:10 Then, Jeremiah, take the pot that you bought. Break it in front of all those people who are there with you." 
Jeremiah19:11 Tell them that the Lord Almighty says, “I will destroy this nation and this city. They will be like this broken pot that nobody is able to mend. They will bury lots of dead people here in Topheth. There will be no space left to bury any more people." 
Jeremiah19:12 I tell you this. I will cause this city and its people to become like Topheth. 
Jeremiah19:13 The houses in Jerusalem will be full of dead bodies like Topheth. The palaces of the kings of Judah will be the same. I will do that because people went up on the roofs of their houses to offer sacrifices to the stars. They poured out drink offerings to other gods.” ’ 
Jeremiah19:14 Then Jeremiah left Topheth, where the Lord had sent him to speak his message. He went to the Lord 's temple in the city. He stood in the yard of the temple. He spoke aloud to the people." 
Jeremiah19:15 He said, ‘The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says this: “Listen to me! I will soon punish this city and all the towns around it, as I have promised that I will do. I will do it because the people have refused to listen to my message.” ’" 
Jeremiah20:1 Immer's son Pashhur was the priest who had authority in the Lord 's temple. He heard Jeremiah's message about Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah20:2 So he told his men to beat Jeremiah. Then they tied Jeremiah up with heavy pieces of wood on his legs. That was at the Benjamin Gate of the Lord 's temple. 
Jeremiah20:3 The next day, Pashhur let Jeremiah go free. Jeremiah said to him, ‘The Lord 's name for you is not “Pashhur”. It is “ Terror is all around”." 
Jeremiah20:4 The Lord says, “I will send enemies to make you and your friends very afraid. You yourself will see enemies kill all your friends in war. I will put Judah's people under the power of Babylon's king. He will take some of them away as prisoners. His soldiers will kill others of them." 
Jeremiah20:5 I will give all the riches in this city to Judah's enemies. I will give them all the things that the people have worked hard to get. They will take all the valuable things that belonged to the people, and to the kings of Judah. They will take everything away to Babylon." 
Jeremiah20:6 They will also take you, Pashhur, and everybody who lives in your house. They will take you as prisoners to Babylon. You will die there and people will bury you there. The same thing will happen to all your friends. You spoke false messages to these people, as if they were messages from me.” ’" 
Jeremiah20:7 Lord, you forced me to become a prophet, and I let you do that. You used your power to make me agree, and you won. Now everybody laughs at me and they insult me." 
Jeremiah20:8 When I speak your message, I have to say, ‘ Terrible trouble is coming!’ When I shout that message from the Lord, people laugh at me. They insult me." 
Jeremiah20:9 Sometimes I think, ‘I will say nothing about the Lord or his message.’ But then his message burns like a fire inside me. It gives me pain in my mind and my body. I cannot keep his message to myself. I have to speak it." 
Jeremiah20:10 I hear what people are saying against me. They say, ‘ Terror is all around him! We should tell the officers what he is saying.’ All my friends want me to make a mistake so that they can accuse me. They say, ‘Perhaps we can cause him to say something wrong. Then we will have power over him. We will pay him back for the trouble he has given us.’" 
Jeremiah20:11 But the Lord is with me, like a brave soldier who will fight for me. So people who want to hurt me will fail. They will not get power over me. They will be very ashamed because they have failed. Nobody will ever forget their shame." 
Jeremiah20:12 Lord Almighty, you test righteous people, to see if they are faithful. You know what people think. You know their feelings. I trust you to show that I am not guilty. So punish those people who want to hurt me." 
Jeremiah20:13 Sing to the Lord! Praise the Lord! He rescues poor people from the power of wicked people. 
Jeremiah20:14 I would like to curse the day that I was born. That day was not a happy day, the day that my mother gave birth to me." 
Jeremiah20:15 That day, a man told my father, ‘Good news! You have a son!’ I would like to curse that man too." 
Jeremiah20:16 May the Lord destroy that man, as he completely destroyed those cities long ago. I want that man to hear people who are weeping in the morning. I want him to hear the noise of battles at noon." 
Jeremiah20:17 He should have killed me before I was born. I should have died inside my mother. She would have held me inside her. That would have been my grave for ever. 
Jeremiah20:18 I should have stayed in that safe place. In my life, I only receive trouble and pain. When I die, all I will have is shame." 
Jeremiah21:1 The Lord gave another message to Jeremiah. King Zedekiah sent Malkijah's son, Pashhur, to speak to Jeremiah. He also sent the priest Zephaniah, Maaseiah's son. They went to say to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah21:1 The Lord gave another message to Jeremiah. King Zedekiah sent Malkijah's son, Pashhur, to speak to Jeremiah. He also sent the priest Zephaniah, Maaseiah's son. They went to say to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah21:2 ‘Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, is attacking us. Please ask the Lord to help us. Perhaps he will do a powerful miracle as he has done for us in the past. Perhaps he will cause Nebuchadnezzar to go away and leave us alone.’" 
Jeremiah21:3 Jeremiah answered them, ‘Tell Zedekiah that the Lord, Israel's God, says this:" 
Jeremiah21:4 “Your soldiers have gone outside the city to fight against the king of Babylon and his soldiers. But I will make the weapons of your soldiers useless. You will have to bring all your soldiers back into the city. 
Jeremiah21:5 I myself will use my great power and strength to fight against you. I will do that because I am very angry with you. 
Jeremiah21:6 I will attack everything that lives in this city, both people and animals. A very bad disease will kill them.”" 
Jeremiah21:7 The Lord also says this: “Then I will put King Zedekiah of Judah under the power of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. I will do the same thing to any of his officers or people who are still alive. Those are the people that war, famine or disease has not already killed. I will give them to King Nebuchadnezzar and to their enemies who want to kill them. He will tell his soldiers to kill them. He will not be kind to them and he will kill them all.”" 
Jeremiah21:8 But also tell the people that the Lord says this: “I will let you choose between two things. One is a way that will give you life. The other is a way that will give you death. 
Jeremiah21:9 Anyone who stays in the city will die. War or famine or disease will kill them. But you may choose to leave the city. You may put yourselves under the power of Babylon's army that is attacking the city. Anyone who does that will continue to live. 
Jeremiah21:10 I, the Lord, tell you this: I have decided not to rescue this city. Instead I will destroy it. I will give it to the king of Babylon. He will destroy it with fire.” ’" 
Jeremiah21:11 This is the Lord 's message to the king of Judah, to his family and his officers:" 
Jeremiah21:12 ‘ Descendants of King David, the Lord says this to you: Every day you must be fair as you judge people. Punish those who rob other people. Punish those who are cruel to other people. Help the people that they have hurt. If you do not judge in a fair way, I will be very angry. My anger will burn like a hot fire that nobody can stop. It will destroy you because of the evil things that you have done.’ The Lord says:" 
Jeremiah21:13 ‘I have turned against you, Jerusalem's palace. Kings sit there on their thrones, on a high rock above the valley. You say, “We are safe here in our strong building. No enemy can get in here to attack us.”" 
Jeremiah21:14 But I will punish you for everything that you have done. I will destroy your palace with fire. That fire will destroy everything that is around you.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah22:1 The Lord said to me, ‘Go down to the palace of the king of Judah. You must say to him," 
Jeremiah22:2 “King of Judah, descendant of King David, listen to this message from the Lord. Your officers and the people of your palace must listen too." 
Jeremiah22:3 The Lord says: You must do things that are right and fair. Punish those who rob other people. Help the people that they have hurt. Do not be cruel to foreigners who are living among you. Do not cheat them. Do not hurt or cheat widows, or children who have no family. Stop killing people who have not done anything wrong." 
Jeremiah22:4 If you are careful to obey these commands, David's descendants will continue to rule as kings in this city. They will ride on horses and on chariots to come in through the city's gates. Their officers and their people will come with them." 
Jeremiah22:5 But if you do not obey these commands, I will destroy this palace. I promise you that it will become a heap of stones! That is what I, the Lord, tell you.” ’" 
Jeremiah22:6 The Lord says this about the palace of the king of Judah: ‘This place is as beautiful as Gilead! It is as beautiful as Lebanon's mountains. But I will cause it to become a wilderness, a place where nobody lives any more." 
Jeremiah22:7 I will send enemies to destroy this place. They will use their weapons to knock it all down. They will cut down the strong beams of cedar wood. They will throw them into the fire. 
Jeremiah22:8 People from many nations will see what has happened here. They will ask each other, “Why has the Lord destroyed this great city?”" 
Jeremiah22:9 Other people will answer, “He did it because they refused to obey their covenant with the Lord their God. They worshipped other gods instead of him.” ’" 
Jeremiah22:10 Do not weep because the king is dead. Do not be sad that he no longer lives. Instead, weep for the king that has gone away. He will never return to see his own land again." 
Jeremiah22:11 Josiah's son, Shallum, became king of Judah after his father died. But enemies took him away as a prisoner to a foreign land. The Lord says this about him: ‘He will never return to this land." 
Jeremiah22:12 He will die in the foreign land where they took him as prisoner. He will not see this land again.’ 
Jeremiah22:13 The Lord says, ‘ Terrible trouble will happen to this man! He cheats people so that he can build a beautiful palace for himself. He does not do what is right and fair. He does not pay the people who work for him. His own men have to work for nothing." 
Jeremiah22:14 He says, “I will build a great palace for myself. It will have large rooms upstairs.” He puts windows in its walls. He covers the walls with cedar wood. He uses red paint to make it beautiful." 
Jeremiah22:15 Are you better than other kings because you use more cedar wood to build your palace? Think about how your father lived. He did what was right and fair. He had enough to eat and to drink. So he was happy with a good life. 
Jeremiah22:16 He did what was right for people who were poor and helpless. So people were happy. That is how people who know me should live.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah22:17 ‘But you always want to cheat people, so that you can get more riches for yourself. You make plans to kill people who have not done anything wrong. You hurt people in cruel ways.’" 
Jeremiah22:18 So the Lord says this about Josiah's son, King Jehoiakim of Judah: ‘People will not weep when he dies. They will not say, “I am very sad, my brother. I am very sad, my sister.” They will not weep and say, “What a terrible thing has happened! Our great king has died!”" 
Jeremiah22:19 Instead, they will bury him like a dead donkey. They will pull his dead body to the city's gate. They will throw it on the ground outside Jerusalem.’" 
Jeremiah22:20 ‘People of Jerusalem, go up to Lebanon and cry aloud. Shout loudly in Bashan. Cry aloud from the mountains of Moab. The nations that were your lovers have lost their power." 
Jeremiah22:21 When you were feeling strong and safe, I warned you that this would happen. But you said, “I refuse to listen to you.” You have been like that since you were young. You have never obeyed me." 
Jeremiah22:22 Your leaders will all disappear, as if a strong wind had blown them away. Enemies will take your friends away as prisoners. Then you will feel very ashamed, because of all the wicked things that you have done." 
Jeremiah22:23 You live safely in beautiful houses that are made from Lebanon's cedar wood. But when I punish you, you will cry out with pain. You will feel pain like a woman who is having a baby.’" 
Jeremiah22:24 This is what the Lord says: ‘Jeconiah, king of Judah, son of Jehoiakim, I promise you this, as surely as I live. I will remove your power as king. If you were the special ring of authority on my right hand, I would pull you off!" 
Jeremiah22:25 You are afraid of your enemies who want to kill you, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon and his army. Now I will let them catch you." 
Jeremiah22:26 I will throw you and your mother out of Judah. I will send you both to a foreign land. You were not born in that land, but you will both die there." 
Jeremiah22:27 You will want to return to this land of Judah, but you will never come back here.’" 
Jeremiah22:28 This man Jeconiah will be like a broken pot. It is a clay pot that nobody wants any more. He and his children will go as prisoners to a foreign country. They will live in a country that they do not know. Why will that happen to them? 
Jeremiah22:29 Listen, people of this land! Listen, people of Judah! Listen to the Lord 's message!" 
Jeremiah22:30 The Lord says, ‘Write this man's name on the list. Write it as the name of a man who has no children. He will not have success in his life. None of his sons will rule as a descendant of King David. None of them will be king of Judah.’" 
Jeremiah23:1 The Lord says, ‘ Terrible trouble will come to the rulers of my people. They should have taken care of my people, as shepherds take care of their sheep. Instead, they have caused them to run away.’" 
Jeremiah23:2 So the Lord, Israel's God, says to the leaders who rule over his people, ‘You have not taken care of my people. You have chased them away to other places. So now I will come and punish you, because of the evil things that you have done. I, the Lord, tell you that!" 
Jeremiah23:3 I myself will bring back together all my people who are still alive. I will bring them from the countries where I have sent them. I will bring them back to the land that is their home. They will give birth to many children and they will grow in number. 
Jeremiah23:4 I will choose rulers for them who will truly take care of them. My people will no longer be afraid. They will all be safe.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah23:5 The Lord says, ‘The time will come when I do this: I will cause a descendant of David to be born. He will be righteous. He will grow like a branch on the tree of David's family. He will rule as king in a wise way. He will do what is right and fair in the land." 
Jeremiah23:6 While he rules, the people of Judah will be safe. Israel's people will live in peace. People will give this name to him: “The Lord is our righteous Saviour.” ’" 
Jeremiah23:7 The Lord says, ‘Yes, a new time will come. When people make a promise, they will not say, “I promise to do this as surely as the Lord lives, who brought the Israelites safely out of Egypt.”" 
Jeremiah23:8 Instead they will say, “I promise to do this as surely as the Lord lives, who brought the descendants of Israel safely back from the land in the north. He brought them back from all the places where he had sent them as prisoners.” At that time they will live in their own land.’" 
Jeremiah23:9 I am very upset about what the prophets are doing. My body is shaking. I move like a man who has become drunk, someone who has drunk too much wine. I am afraid because of the Lord and the holy message that he has spoken." 
Jeremiah23:10 The land is full of people who are not faithful to God. The prophets live wicked lives. They use their power in a bad way. Because of that, God has cursed the land. The land is as dry as a desert, and the fields have no grass." 
Jeremiah23:11 The Lord says, ‘The prophets and the priests are all wicked. I see the evil things that they do, even in my temple." 
Jeremiah23:12 Because of that, the paths that they travel on will be dark. They will easily slip and fall to the ground. I will cause terrible trouble to happen to them. I will decide the time when I will punish them.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah23:13 ‘I saw the disgusting thing that the prophets in Samaria did. They used the name of Baal to prophesy. Their messages deceived my people, Israel." 
Jeremiah23:14 But now some prophets in Jerusalem do even worse things! They are not faithful to their wives. They always deceive people. They encourage people to do evil things. They do not try to stop them. They are as bad as the people of Sodom long ago. The people of Jerusalem are as bad as the people of Gomorrah. 
Jeremiah23:15 So I, the Lord Almighty, say this about these prophets: I will cause them to have much pain and trouble. They will eat bitter food. They will drink water that is poison. It is because of Jerusalem's prophets that people do wicked things everywhere in the land.’" 
Jeremiah23:16 The Lord Almighty says to the people, ‘Do not listen to the messages that the prophets are telling you. They are only deceiving you. They speak about visions that are their own ideas. They do not speak a message that comes from the Lord himself." 
Jeremiah23:17 When people refuse to listen to me, the prophets still encourage them. They say to them, “The Lord will give you peace.” When people refuse to change their wicked way of life, the prophets tell them, “Nothing bad will happen to you.”" 
Jeremiah23:18 But none of those prophets has met with the Lord. They have not seen him and they have not heard his voice. So none of them has ever listened to him to know what he is saying. 
Jeremiah23:19 But look! The Lord 's anger will come like a strong storm. It will blow away the heads of those wicked people. 
Jeremiah23:20 The Lord will not stop being angry, until he has finished what he has decided to do. When the time comes, you will understand this clearly." 
Jeremiah23:21 I did not send those prophets, but they have still run to speak to you. I did not tell them what to say, but they have continued to prophesy." 
Jeremiah23:22 If they had really met with me, they would have spoken my message to my people. They would have caused my people to turn away from their wicked way of life. They would have stopped my people doing evil things.’" 
Jeremiah23:23 The Lord says, ‘Am I a God in only one place? No! I see everything everywhere!" 
Jeremiah23:24 Do you think you can hide in a place where I cannot see you? You should know that I am everywhere, in the heavens above and on the earth.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah23:25 ‘I have heard the lies that these prophets are saying. They say that they have messages from me. They say, “God has spoken to me in a dream!”" 
Jeremiah23:26 But all their words are lies. Their messages are their own ideas. When will they stop deceiving people? 
Jeremiah23:27 They want to make my people forget who I am. They use their dreams to do this. They tell them to each other. They are as bad as their ancestors. They also forgot who I am when they worshipped the false god, Baal." 
Jeremiah23:28 If a prophet has a dream, he should say what it is. If a prophet receives a message from me, he should speak that message faithfully. But dreams are very different from my messages. Straw is not the same as wheat!" 
Jeremiah23:29 A message from me is like a fire that burns things. It is like a hammer that breaks a rock into pieces.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah23:30 ‘I tell you that I am against those prophets! They say that they speak messages from me. But they are using each other's ideas. 
Jeremiah23:31 They say, “This message is from the Lord,” but it is their own words that they speak." 
Jeremiah23:32 Yes, I am against those who have dreams and use them to deceive people. They are using cruel lies to lead the people away from me. I did not send those prophets to speak on my behalf. They do nothing to help my people.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah23:33 The Lord said, ‘Jeremiah, someone may ask you a question. He may be one of these people or a prophet or a priest. He may ask you, “What message of trouble is the Lord telling us now?” Then you must say to him, “You are the trouble! The Lord says that he will go away from you.”" 
Jeremiah23:34 If a prophet, a priest, or anyone else says, “I have a message of trouble from the Lord,” I will punish that person. I will punish his whole family too." 
Jeremiah23:35 Instead, each of you should ask your friends, “What is the Lord 's answer?” or “What has the Lord said?”" 
Jeremiah23:36 But you must not speak any more about “a message of trouble from the Lord ”. It is the person's own message that brings the trouble. In that way, you change the true message of our God, the living God who is the Lord Almighty." 
Jeremiah23:37 If you go to a prophet, you should ask him, “What answer did the Lord give to you?” or “What did the Lord say?”" 
Jeremiah23:38 You must no longer say, “What is the message of trouble from the Lord?” If you continue to say that when I have told you not to say it, this is what will happen:" 
Jeremiah23:39 I will pick you up and I will throw you away! I will send you all a long way away from me. I will chase out all the people of this city that I gave to you and to your ancestors. 
Jeremiah23:40 I will make you very ashamed. People will never forget your great shame.’ 
Jeremiah24:1 King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon took Jeconiah away as his prisoner. Jeconiah was the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah. Nebuchadnezzar also took all Jeconiah's officers and the workers in Judah who had special skills. He took them all away from Jerusalem to Babylon as his prisoners. After that happened, the Lord showed me a vision. I saw two baskets of figs. Somebody had put them in front of the Lord 's temple." 
Jeremiah24:2 One basket had very good figs, like those that are ready to eat early in the year. The other basket had very bad figs. They were too bad to eat." 
Jeremiah24:3 Then the Lord asked me, ‘What do you see, Jeremiah?’ I answered, ‘Figs. The good figs are very good. But the bad figs are so bad that nobody can eat them.’" 
Jeremiah24:4 Then the Lord gave me this message: 
Jeremiah24:5 ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says, “The people that I sent away from Judah to Babylon as prisoners are like the good figs. I see them as good." 
Jeremiah24:6 I will watch them carefully and I will take care of them. I will bring them back to this land. I will build them up and make them strong. I will not knock them down. I will help them to grow in the land, like plants with good roots. I will not pull them up." 
Jeremiah24:7 I will cause them to want to know me. They will know that I am the Lord. They will be my people and I will be their God, because they will choose to return to me.”" 
Jeremiah24:8 But I, the Lord, also tell you this: “King Zedekiah of Judah and his officers are like the bad figs. That is true of the people who still live in Jerusalem, and those who have run away to Egypt to live there. They are all like the figs that are too bad to eat." 
Jeremiah24:9 I will send great trouble to punish them. It will make everyone afraid. The people of all the kingdoms on the earth will think that they are disgusting. People will insult them. They will use them as an example in proverbs. They will use their name as a curse. That will happen in all the places where I send my people. 
Jeremiah24:10 I will send war, famine and disease to kill them. I will destroy them all. They will disappear from the land that I gave to them and to their ancestors.” ’" 
Jeremiah25:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah in the fourth year that Jehoiakim ruled Judah as king. Jehoiakim was the son of King Josiah. It was also the first year that Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylon. The Lord 's message was about the people of Judah. 
Jeremiah25:2 So the prophet Jeremiah spoke to all the people of Judah and to all the people who were living in Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah25:3 He said, ‘For 23 years the Lord has been giving me his messages. I started to tell you his messages when Amon's son Josiah had been ruling Judah for 13 years. I have continued to tell you many times what the Lord has said, even until today. But you have refused to listen." 
Jeremiah25:4 The Lord has also sent his servants, the prophets, to speak to you many times. You have refused to listen to them too." 
Jeremiah25:5 The Lord 's message to you was, “Turn away from your wicked way of life. Stop doing the evil things that you are doing. If you do that, you may continue to live in this land. It is the land that the Lord gave to you and to your ancestors to be their home for ever." 
Jeremiah25:6 Do not look for other gods that you can serve and worship. Do not continue to do things that make me angry. Then I will not hurt you.” 
Jeremiah25:7 So now the Lord says, “You have refused to listen to my messages. You have continued to do things that make me angry. So you have brought trouble on yourselves.”" 
Jeremiah25:8 The Lord Almighty says, “You have not listened to my messages." 
Jeremiah25:9 So I, the Lord, tell you that I will call the nations in the north to come. I will call my servant, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, to come. I will bring them to attack this land and the people who live here. They will also attack all the nations that are around you. I will completely destroy this land, its people and all the nations around it. Their houses will become heaps of stones for ever. The land will become a terrible place. People will always see how foolish my people are." 
Jeremiah25:10 Everywhere, I will stop people's happy songs and their marriage parties. Nobody will make flour any more. Nobody will light lamps in their homes." 
Jeremiah25:11 This whole place will be as empty as a desert. Nobody will live here. The people of Judah and these other nations will serve the king of Babylon for 70 years.” 
Jeremiah25:12 The Lord also says, “But after the 70 years have finished, I will punish the king of Babylon and his nation. I will punish them for their sins. I will destroy the land of the Babylonians. It will be a heap of stones for ever." 
Jeremiah25:13 I will certainly do to them all the terrible things that I have spoken about. I will do to them everything that is written in this book. I will cause them to have all the trouble that Jeremiah prophesies against all the nations. 
Jeremiah25:14 Many nations and great kings will have power over the king of Babylon and his people. The Babylonians will become their slaves. In that way, I will punish the Babylonians for all the bad things that they did to my people.” ’" 
Jeremiah25:15 The Lord, Israel's God, said to me, ‘Take this cup from me. It is full of wine that shows my great anger. Take it to the nations where I send you. Make them drink this wine of punishment." 
Jeremiah25:16 When they drink it, they will walk like people who are drunk. They will seem to be crazy, because they know that I will send armies to attack them.’" 
Jeremiah25:17 So I took the cup from the Lord 's hand. In my vision, I took it to the nations where the Lord sent me. I made them drink the wine of his punishment." 
Jeremiah25:18 I went to Jerusalem and the other cities of Judah. I made the people of Judah, its kings and its officers drink from the cup. It was to destroy them all. Judah would become a terrible place. People would see that its people are very foolish. They would use their name as a curse. That is already happening today." 
Jeremiah25:19 I also took the cup of punishment to these people: Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and his officers, his servants and his people;" 
Jeremiah25:20 the foreign people who lived in Egypt; all the kings of Uz; all the kings of the Philistines (they were the kings of Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron and the people who were still living in Ashdod);" 
Jeremiah25:21 the people of Edom, Moab and Ammon;" 
Jeremiah25:22 all the kings of Tyre and all the kings of Sidon; the kings of the nations around the Mediterranean Sea; 
Jeremiah25:23 the people of Dedan, Tema and Buz; the people who live in the desert and who cut their hair short;" 
Jeremiah25:24 all the kings of Arabia and the kings of the tribes who live in the desert; 
Jeremiah25:25 all the kings of Zimri, Elam and Media;" 
Jeremiah25:26 all the kings of the nations in the north, those who live near together and those who live far apart; the people of all the other kingdoms everywhere on the earth. Finally, the king of Babylon will have to drink the wine of the Lord 's great anger." 
Jeremiah25:27 Then the Lord said to me, ‘Tell them that the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “Drink the wine from this cup until you become drunk. Drink so much that you are sick. Drink it until you fall down and cannot get up again, because you know that I will send armies to attack you.”" 
Jeremiah25:28 But people may refuse to take the cup from you. They may refuse to drink from it. Then you must tell them that the Lord Almighty says this: “You must drink this wine of my punishment! 
Jeremiah25:29 I have already begun to punish Jerusalem, the city that is my special home. So do not think that I will leave you other nations alone! I will certainly punish you too. I will send war against everyone who lives on the earth. That is what the Lord Almighty says will happen!”" 
Jeremiah25:30 Now Jeremiah, prophesy this message against them: “The Lord will shout from his high place above. He will roar like a lion that is ready to attack his land. He will make a noise like thunder from his holy home. He will shout aloud like people who are stamping on grapes to make wine. He will shout against everyone who lives on the earth." 
Jeremiah25:31 People everywhere will hear his message. The Lord will accuse the nations of their sins, and he will judge all the people on the earth. He will send war to kill all the wicked people.” That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah25:32 The Lord Almighty also says this: “Listen to me! Great trouble will come to every single nation. War will come like a great storm from the ends of the earth.” 
Jeremiah25:33 At that time, dead bodies will lie everywhere, all over the earth. Those will be people that the Lord has killed. Nobody will weep for them. Nobody will take their bodies to bury them in the ground. Their dead bodies will lie on the ground like dung." 
Jeremiah25:34 You leaders should have been like shepherds to take care of my people. But now it is time for you to weep! Roll on the ground in the dust! The time of your death has arrived. You will lie on the ground, like pieces of a broken pot." 
Jeremiah25:35 The leaders will not be able to run away and hide. The shepherds of my people will not escape. 
Jeremiah25:36 Listen to the leaders as they weep! The Lord 's people were like their sheep. Now the shepherds are weeping loudly, because the Lord is destroying their fields." 
Jeremiah25:37 The Lord will completely destroy the fields where the sheep quietly ate the grass. He will do that because he is very angry. 
Jeremiah25:38 The Lord will come out, like a lion that comes out of its cave. He will make their land a terrible place. Cruel armies will destroy the land, because of the Lord 's great anger.’" 
Jeremiah26:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah at the time when Josiah's son Jehoiakim became king of Judah. 
Jeremiah26:2 The Lord said, ‘Go and stand in the yard of the Lord 's temple. People come from all the towns in Judah to worship the Lord in his temple. Speak to them. Tell them everything that I command you to say. Do not leave out even one word." 
Jeremiah26:3 Perhaps they will listen to what you say. Then they may stop living in the evil way that they do now. If they change how they live, I will not punish them for their sins, as I had promised to do." 
Jeremiah26:4 Tell them that the Lord says this: “You must obey me. I have given you my laws that tell you how you should live. 
Jeremiah26:5 You must listen to the messages that my servants the prophets tell you. I have sent them to speak to you many times, but you have not listened to them." 
Jeremiah26:6 So if you do not obey me, I will destroy this temple, as I destroyed Shiloh. People of all the other nations on earth will use the name of this city as a curse.” ’" 
Jeremiah26:7 The priests, the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah's message in the Lord 's temple." 
Jeremiah26:8 Jeremiah said everything that the Lord had commanded him to say to all the people. Just as he finished, some of the priests, the prophets and the people took hold of him. They shouted, ‘You deserve to die!" 
Jeremiah26:9 You should not say that you have the Lord 's authority to prophesy such terrible things! You cannot say that this temple will become like Shiloh. You cannot say that this city will become a heap of stones where nobody lives!’ The whole crowd of people pushed together around Jeremiah in the yard of the temple. 
Jeremiah26:10 Some of Judah's officers heard about what was happening. So they left the king's palace and they went up to the Lord 's temple. They went to the gate of the temple that is called ‘The New Gate’. They sat in their places as judges near the gate. 
Jeremiah26:11 Then the priests and the prophets told the officers and all the people why they accused Jeremiah. They said, ‘This man deserves to die because he has prophesied trouble against this city. You yourselves have heard what he said!’" 
Jeremiah26:12 Then Jeremiah said to all the officers and to all the people, ‘The Lord sent me to say all the things that you have heard me speak. He told me to prophesy against this temple and against this city." 
Jeremiah26:13 Now you must change the way that you have been living. You must do what is good and right. Obey the Lord your God. Then the Lord will not punish you as he said that he would do. 
Jeremiah26:14 As for me, I am under your authority. Do with me whatever you think is good and right." 
Jeremiah26:15 But you should know this: if you punish me with death, you will bring great trouble on yourselves, this city and everyone who lives here. You will be guilty of murder, because I have not done anything wrong. The Lord has sent me to speak all these words for you to hear. That is the truth!’" 
Jeremiah26:16 Then the officers and all the people gave their answer to the priests and the prophets. They said, ‘This man does not deserve to die. The Lord our God has given him authority to say these things to us.’" 
Jeremiah26:17 Then some of Judah's leaders stood up to speak to all the people who were there. 
Jeremiah26:18 They said, ‘Micah from Moresheth prophesied when Hezekiah was king of Judah. He gave this message to all the people of Judah: “The Lord Almighty says this: Zion will be like a field that a farmer has dug. Jerusalem will become a heap of stones. Trees will cover the hill where the temple is now.”" 
Jeremiah26:18 They said, ‘Micah from Moresheth prophesied when Hezekiah was king of Judah. He gave this message to all the people of Judah: “The Lord Almighty says this: Zion will be like a field that a farmer has dug. Jerusalem will become a heap of stones. Trees will cover the hill where the temple is now.”" 
Jeremiah26:19 When Micah said that, King Hezekiah and all Judah's people did not punish him with death. Instead, Hezekiah gave honour to the Lord. He wanted to please the Lord. So the Lord did not destroy them as he had said he would do. If we are not careful, we will bring great trouble on ourselves!’" 
Jeremiah26:19 When Micah said that, King Hezekiah and all Judah's people did not punish him with death. Instead, Hezekiah gave honour to the Lord. He wanted to please the Lord. So the Lord did not destroy them as he had said he would do. If we are not careful, we will bring great trouble on ourselves!’" 
Jeremiah26:20 There was another prophet who was called Uriah. He was the son of Shemaiah, from Kiriath-Jearim. Uriah prophesied against this city and this nation, with the Lord 's authority, as Jeremiah did." 
Jeremiah26:21 When King Jehoiakim, his personal guards and all his officers heard what Uriah was saying, the king wanted to kill him. But Uriah heard about it and he was afraid. So he ran away to Egypt." 
Jeremiah26:22 But King Jehoiakim sent Akbor's son Elnathan and some other men to Egypt. 
Jeremiah26:23 They brought Uriah back from there to King Jehoiakim. The king punished Uriah with death. They threw his dead body in the place where they buried poor people. 
Jeremiah26:24 But Shaphan's son Ahikam spoke on Jeremiah's behalf. He stopped the people from taking hold of Jeremiah and killing him. 
Jeremiah27:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah when Josiah's son Zedekiah became king of Judah. 
Jeremiah27:2 The Lord said to me, ‘Use wood and leather to make a yoke. Tie the yoke around your neck." 
Jeremiah27:3 Then send a message to the kings of Edom, Moab, Ammon, Tyre and Sidon. Those kings have officers who have come to see King Zedekiah of Judah here in Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah27:4 Give them this message to tell their masters: “The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, ‘Tell this to your masters:" 
Jeremiah27:5 I used my great power and strength to make this earth. I also made all the people and the animals who live on it. I give these things that I have made to anyone that I choose. 
Jeremiah27:6 Now I choose to give all your countries to my servant Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. He will rule over you and even over the wild animals." 
Jeremiah27:7 People from all nations will serve him. They will also serve his son and his grandson until the time of their kingdom has finished. Then great kings and people from many other nations will take away his power. 
Jeremiah27:8 But if the people of any nation or kingdom refuse to serve King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, I will punish those people. They must agree to work for him, like oxen that have a yoke around their necks. If they refuse, I will cause the king of Babylon to punish that nation. I will destroy them with war, famine or disease." 
Jeremiah27:9 So do not listen to your prophets, or to your diviners. Do not listen to people who use dreams or magic or the spirits of dead people to tell you what will happen. Those people tell you that you will not have to serve the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah27:10 But the things that they say are lies, so do not agree with them. It will cause me to take you away from your own land. I will remove you to a country that is far away and you will die there." 
Jeremiah27:11 But if the people of any nation agree to serve the king of Babylon, I will let them stay in their own land. If they work for him, with his yoke around their necks, they can continue to grow crops and live in their own land.’ That is what the Lord says.” ’" 
Jeremiah27:12 I gave the same message to King Zedekiah of Judah. I told him, ‘Put the yoke of the king of Babylon around your neck. Agree to work for him and for his people. Then you will continue to live." 
Jeremiah27:13 You and your people do not need to die. But war, famine or disease will destroy any nation that refuses to serve the king of Babylon. The Lord has said that this will happen." 
Jeremiah27:14 So do not listen to the words of the prophets who say, “You will not have to serve the king of Babylon.” The things that they prophesy are lies." 
Jeremiah27:15 The Lord says, “I have not sent those prophets. They are using my name to tell you lies. If you agree with them, I will chase you all out of the land, including those false prophets. You will die in a foreign land.” ’" 
Jeremiah27:16 I also spoke to the priests and to all the people. I told them, ‘The Lord says, “Do not listen to the words of your prophets. They say that the people of Babylon will soon bring back the valuable things that they took from the Lord 's temple. But the things that they tell you are lies." 
Jeremiah27:17 Do not listen to them. Agree to serve the king of Babylon. Then you will continue to live. This city does not need to become a heap of stones!” 
Jeremiah27:18 Perhaps you think that they are true prophets who speak the Lord 's messages. Then tell them to pray to the Lord Almighty for help. They should ask him to keep safe the valuable things that remain in Jerusalem. They should pray that the things in the Lord 's temple and in the king's palace would not be taken away to Babylon. 
Jeremiah27:19 The Lord Almighty has already spoken about the valuable things that remain in this city. He has spoken about the two bronze pillars, the big bronze bath which is called “the Sea”, and the bronze carts to carry water." 
Jeremiah27:20 King Nebuchadnezzar did not take these things away with him when he took the king of Judah away as prisoner. He took away Jehoiakim's son, King Jeconiah of Judah, as well as the important people of Judah and Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah27:21 Yes, Israel's God, the Lord Almighty has spoken about the things that still remain in Jerusalem, in the Lord 's temple and in the king's palace." 
Jeremiah27:22 He has said, “King Nebuchadnezzar's men will take them away to Babylon. They will remain there until I decide to do something with them. Then I will bring them back here to Jerusalem again.” That is what the Lord says. ’" 
Jeremiah28:1 In the same year, the prophet Hananiah spoke to me. It happened in the fifth month of the fourth year that King Zedekiah ruled Judah. Hananiah was the son of Azzur, who came from Gibeon. He spoke to me in the Lord 's temple, where the priests and all the people could hear him." 
Jeremiah28:2 He said, ‘Israel's God, the Lord Almighty, says this: “I will break the yoke that the king of Babylon has put around your necks." 
Jeremiah28:3 King Nebuchadnezzar took with him to Babylon many valuable things from this temple. In less than two years, I will bring all those things back here." 
Jeremiah28:4 I will also bring back Jehoiakim's son, King Jeconiah of Judah. And I will bring back all the people of Judah that King Nebuchadnezzar took as prisoners to Babylon.” The Lord says, “I will break the king of Babylon's yoke.” ’" 
Jeremiah28:5 Jeremiah replied to Hananiah, the prophet, in the Lord 's temple. The priests and all the people who were standing there could hear him." 
Jeremiah28:6 The prophet Jeremiah said, ‘ Amen! I agree! I pray that the Lord would do that! I pray that what you have prophesied really happens. May the Lord bring back from Babylon all the valuable things that belong in his temple. May he bring back all the people that King Nebuchadnezzar took to Babylon as prisoners." 
Jeremiah28:7 But listen to what I say to you, and to all the people here." 
Jeremiah28:8 From long ago, there have been prophets, before you and I became prophets. They often prophesied that war, famine and disease would bring great trouble to many countries and kingdoms." 
Jeremiah28:9 But it is different if a prophet says that people will live safely in peace. We would only agree that the Lord has really sent him if his message becomes true.’ 
Jeremiah28:10 Then the prophet Hananiah removed the yoke from the neck of the prophet Jeremiah. He broke it into pieces. 
Jeremiah28:11 He said in front of all the people, ‘The Lord says, “That shows how I will break the yoke of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. He has put his yoke around the necks of all the nations. In less than two years I will break his yoke and I will remove it from their necks.” ’ After Hananiah said that, the prophet Jeremiah went away from the temple." 
Jeremiah28:12 Soon after Hananiah had broken the yoke that was on Jeremiah's neck, the Lord spoke again to Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah28:13 He said, ‘Go to Hananiah and tell him that the Lord says, “It is true that you have broken a wooden yoke. But instead of that you will get a yoke that is made from iron!" 
Jeremiah28:14 Yes, the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says this: I have put an iron yoke around the necks of all those nations. They will have to serve King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon as his slaves. Everything will be under his power, even the wild animals.” ’" 
Jeremiah28:15 Then Jeremiah said to Hananiah, ‘Listen to me, Hananiah! The Lord has not sent you as his prophet. You have spoken lies to these people and they have believed you." 
Jeremiah28:16 So the Lord says to you, “I will remove you from this earth. You have taught people to turn against me, the Lord. You will certainly die this year.” ’" 
Jeremiah28:17 In the seventh month of that same year, the prophet Hananiah died." 
Jeremiah29:1 Jeremiah sent a letter from Jerusalem to the people of Judah who were in Babylon. He sent it to the Israelite leaders and to the priests, the prophets and all the other people who were there. Nebuchadnezzar had taken them there as prisoners from Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah29:2 He sent the letter after King Nebuchadnezzar had taken King Jeconiah and his mother away from Jerusalem. He had taken them to Babylon with Jeconiah's officers and the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem. He had also taken away to Babylon the men who had special skills to work with wood or metal. 
Jeremiah29:3 King Zedekiah of Judah was sending some men to King Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon. They were Shaphan's son Elasah, and Hilkiah's son Gemariah. Jeremiah gave his letter to them to take to Babylon. This is what the letter said:" 
Jeremiah29:4 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, sends this message to all the people of Judah who are in Babylon. He sent them there from Jerusalem as prisoners." 
Jeremiah29:5 He says, ‘Build houses for yourselves. Make Babylon your home. Plant gardens. Eat the food that grows in them." 
Jeremiah29:6 Marry, so that you have sons and daughters. Find wives for your sons to marry. Let your daughters marry too. Then they also can give birth to sons and daughters. Your descendants should become more and more, not fewer." 
Jeremiah29:7 Work well to help the foreign place where I have sent you to live. Try to make it a successful place. Pray to the Lord that it will do well. If it does well, you will also do well.’" 
Jeremiah29:8 Yes, the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, ‘Some of the prophets and the other people use magic to tell you what will happen in the future. Do not let them deceive you with their lies. Do not listen to the dreams that they tell you about." 
Jeremiah29:9 They say that they are speaking with my authority. But the things that they prophesy are lies. I have not sent them to speak to you.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah29:10 The Lord says, ‘You will live in Babylon for 70 years. Then I will choose to help you. I will be kind to you, as I promised. I will bring you back here to your home." 
Jeremiah29:11 I, the Lord, tell you this: I have decided what I will do for you. I have plans to help you to do well. I do not want to hurt you. I want to give you hope for a good life in the future." 
Jeremiah29:12 At that time, when you call out to me for help, I will hear your prayers." 
Jeremiah29:13 You will want to find me, and I will be ready to meet with you. If you really want to find me," 
Jeremiah29:14 I will be there for you.’ That is what the Lord says. ‘I will bring you back from the nations and all the places where I sent you as prisoners. You will no longer have to live in those foreign places.’ 
Jeremiah29:15 You may say, ‘The Lord has chosen prophets to bring his message to us here in Babylon.’" 
Jeremiah29:16 But listen to what the Lord says about the people who are still here in Jerusalem. The enemy did not take them with you as prisoners to Babylon. That includes the king who now rules David's kingdom. 
Jeremiah29:17 The Lord Almighty says, ‘I will send war, famine and disease to hurt them. They will be like bad figs that nobody can eat." 
Jeremiah29:18 I will use war, famine and disease to chase them away from their homes. I will send them to live among other nations. The people of all the nations in the world will see how disgusting they are. People will use their names as a curse. They will see how foolish they are and they will laugh at them." 
Jeremiah29:19 I will do that because they have not listened to my message. I sent my servants, the prophets, to speak to them many times, but the people in Jerusalem refused to listen.’ That is what the Lord says. The Lord also says, ‘You people of Judah who are now in Babylon have not listened to my message either." 
Jeremiah29:20 I sent you away from Jerusalem as prisoners to Babylon. All of you must also listen carefully to my message.’ 
Jeremiah29:21 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says this about Kolaiah's son Ahab and Maaseiah's son Zedekiah: ‘They are speaking to you in my name, but they are prophesying lies. So I will put them under the power of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. He will kill them while you watch." 
Jeremiah29:22 They will be an example to the people of Judah who are now living in Babylon. When they want to curse someone, they will say, “May the Lord punish you in the same way that the king of Babylon killed Zedekiah and Ahab. He burned them to death in a fire!”" 
Jeremiah29:23 That will happen to them because of the terrible sins that they have done in Israel. They have sex with the wives of their neighbours. They have used my name to tell lies. They have spoken messages that I did not command them to speak. I know what they have done because I have seen it all.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah29:24 The Lord told Jeremiah to send this message to Shemaiah, who came from Nehelam:" 
Jeremiah29:25 ‘The Lord Almighty, Israel's God says, “You sent a letter on your own authority to all the people in Jerusalem. Those people included the priest Zephaniah, Maaseiah's son, and all the other priests. In your letter, you said to Zephaniah:" 
Jeremiah29:25 ‘The Lord Almighty, Israel's God says, “You sent a letter on your own authority to all the people in Jerusalem. Those people included the priest Zephaniah, Maaseiah's son, and all the other priests. In your letter, you said to Zephaniah:" 
Jeremiah29:26 The Lord chose you to be priest instead of Jehoiada. You are the officer who has authority over the Lord 's temple. If there is any crazy man who says that he is a prophet, you must take hold of him. It is your duty to tie him up. Put heavy pieces of wood on his legs and iron chains around his neck." 
Jeremiah29:27 That is your job, so you should have punished Jeremiah, the man from Anathoth. He is there and he is speaking God's messages to you." 
Jeremiah29:28 He has even sent a message to us here in Babylon. He told us that we will be here for a long time. He told us to build houses and make our homes here. He says that we should plant gardens to grow food for ourselves.” ’ 
Jeremiah29:29 When Zephaniah the priest received Shemaiah's letter, he read it to the prophet Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah29:29 When Zephaniah the priest received Shemaiah's letter, he read it to the prophet Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah29:30 Then the Lord said to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah29:31 ‘Send a message to all the people of Judah who are now in Babylon. Tell them that the Lord says this about Shemaiah, the man from Nehelam: “Shemaiah has prophesied to you. But I did not send him to you. He has caused you to believe a lie.”" 
Jeremiah29:32 So the Lord says, “I will certainly punish Shemaiah and his family. He will not have any descendants who remain among my people. None of them will receive any of the good things that I will do for my people. I will punish him because he has taught my people to turn against me.” That is what the Lord has said.’" 
Jeremiah30:1 The Lord gave this message to Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah30:2 ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says, “Write all the words that I have spoken in a book.”" 
Jeremiah30:3 I, the Lord, tell you this: “The time will come when I will bring back my people from foreign lands. I will bring the people of Israel and Judah back to the land that I gave to their ancestors. It will belong to them.” That is what the Lord says.’" 
Jeremiah30:4 The Lord spoke this message about Israel and Judah: 
Jeremiah30:5 The Lord said, ‘People are shouting because they are afraid! Listen to them! There is no peace anywhere." 
Jeremiah30:6 Think carefully about this. Do men ever give birth to babies? So why are these strong men weak with pain? They seem like a woman who is giving birth. All their faces have become white with fear. 
Jeremiah30:7 It will be a time of terrible trouble, worse than anything that has happened before. It will be a time of great trouble for Jacob's descendants. But I will rescue them from their trouble.’" 
Jeremiah30:8 The Lord Almighty says this: ‘When that day comes, I will break the yoke that is around your necks. I will remove the ropes that tie your legs. My people will no longer be slaves under the power of foreign people." 
Jeremiah30:9 Instead, they will serve the Lord their God. They will serve David's descendant. I will raise that man up to be their king.’" 
Jeremiah30:10 The Lord says, ‘Do not be afraid, descendants of Jacob, my servants. People of Israel, do not be upset. I will rescue you and your descendants from your enemies. I will bring you back from the land far away, where you are prisoners. Jacob's descendants will return to their own land. They will live there safely in peace. There will be no enemies to make them afraid.’" 
Jeremiah30:11 The Lord says, ‘I am with you and I will save you. I have sent you away to live in foreign lands. That was the punishment that you deserved. I will completely destroy the nations where I sent you to live. But I will not completely destroy you. I will certainly punish you, but only as much as you deserve.’" 
Jeremiah30:12 The Lord says this to Zion's people: ‘You have received very bad wounds. Nobody can make you well again. 
Jeremiah30:13 There is no one who will speak on your behalf. There is no medicine that can make you well. 
Jeremiah30:14 All your friends have turned away from you. They do not want to help you in your troubles. I have hurt you, in the way that an enemy might attack you. You have lived in a very wicked way, and you are guilty of many sins. So I had to punish you, to teach you what is right." 
Jeremiah30:15 You complain about your wounds. You say that your pain will never get better. But I had to punish you, because you are very wicked, and you are guilty of many sins." 
Jeremiah30:16 But I will destroy your enemies who destroyed you. All of them will go as prisoners to foreign lands. They took your valuable things for themselves. Now I will take away their valuable things. 
Jeremiah30:17 People say that nobody takes care of you, people of Zion. They say that I have chased you out of your land. But I will give you back your health. I will make your wounds better.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah30:18 The Lord says, ‘I will bring back Jacob's descendants to their own land. Enemies have knocked down their houses, but I will repair the homes where they lived. I will be kind to them, so that each family can live safely. The city will stand again in its right place. The palace will also stand where it was before." 
Jeremiah30:19 In those places you will hear happy songs, as people thank God. People will laugh aloud because they are so happy. I will make them grow in number. Their descendants will be many. I will cause other nations to give them honour. They will no longer insult my people." 
Jeremiah30:20 Jacob's descendants will be strong again, as they were long ago. They will serve me together as one group of people. I will punish anyone who wants to hurt them." 
Jeremiah30:21 One of their own people will rule them as king. I will ask him to come near to me, and he will come near. Nobody would be brave enough to come near to me, unless I asked him to come.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah30:22 ‘At that time, you will again be my people, and I will be your God. ’" 
Jeremiah30:23 Look! The Lord 's anger will come like a strong storm. Like a strong wind, it will blow away the heads of wicked people." 
Jeremiah30:24 The Lord will not stop being angry, until he has finished what he has decided to do. When the time comes, you will understand this clearly." 
Jeremiah31:1 The Lord says this: ‘When that time comes, I will be the God of every family in Israel. And they will be my people.’" 
Jeremiah31:2 The Lord says, ‘I was kind to the Israelites when they travelled in the desert. I helped those that the enemy had not killed, as they looked for a place where they could rest.’" 
Jeremiah31:3 At that time long ago, the Lord showed himself to his people. He said, ‘I have always loved you and I always will love you. My faithful love for you continues for ever." 
Jeremiah31:4 My special people of Israel, I will make you strong again. You will be so happy that you dance, as people make music with tambourines." 
Jeremiah31:5 You will again plant vines on the hills in Samaria. Yes, farmers will plant vines and they will eat their fruit." 
Jeremiah31:6 There will be a time when guards will call out, as they watch for danger in the hills of Ephraim. They will shout, “Let us go up to Zion, to worship the Lord our God.” ’" 
Jeremiah31:7 The Lord says this: ‘Sing with joy for Jacob's descendants! They are the greatest of all the nations! Praise the Lord with loud voices! Say, “ Lord, please save your people. Save those Israelites who are still alive.”" 
Jeremiah31:8 See what I will do! I will bring them back from the land in the north. Wherever they are, I will bring them back. A great crowd of my people will return. Blind people will be among them, and people who cannot walk well. There will be pregnant women and some who will very soon give birth." 
Jeremiah31:9 They will be weeping as they come. They will pray for my help as I lead them. I will lead them beside streams of fresh water, and on flat paths where they will not fall down. I will help them because I am a father for Israel's people. Ephraim is like my firstborn son.’" 
Jeremiah31:10 People of all nations, listen to the Lord 's message. Shout it aloud for everyone to hear, even those who live on the coasts far away. Say, ‘The Lord chased Israel's people away, but now he will bring them back. He will take care of them, like a shepherd who takes care of his sheep.’" 
Jeremiah31:11 Yes, the Lord will rescue Jacob's descendants. He will pay the cost to let them be free. They will no longer be under the power of people who were stronger than them." 
Jeremiah31:12 His people will come back to Mount Zion, and they will shout with joy. They will be very happy because of all the good things that the Lord gives to them. There will be grain to make bread, new wine and olive oil. There will be lambs and young cows. They will grow and be strong, like a garden that has plenty of water. They will not be weak or sad any more." 
Jeremiah31:13 The Lord says this: ‘Young women will dance because they are happy. The young men and the old men will also be happy. I will cause them to laugh instead of weep. I will comfort them, so that they are happy instead of sad." 
Jeremiah31:14 I will give the priests plenty of good things. My people will have everything that they need, because of all the good things that I give to them.’" 
Jeremiah31:15 The Lord says, ‘You can hear a sad noise in Ramah. Someone is weeping loudly. It is Rachel, and she is weeping for her children. Nobody can comfort her, because her children are dead.’" 
Jeremiah31:16 The Lord says, ‘Stop crying! Do not weep any more! I will help you because of what you have done. Your children will return from the land of their enemies.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah31:17 ‘Yes, you will have descendants in the future. Your children will return to their own land.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah31:18 ‘I have heard Israel's people when they are sad. They say to me, “You punished us, and we accepted it. You taught us to obey you, like a farmer teaches an ox to work for him. So let us come back to serve you. We are ready to return to you, because you are the Lord, our God." 
Jeremiah31:19 After we turned away from you, we were sorry that we had done that. We understood what we had done, and we showed that we were sad. We were ashamed and upset, because of the disgusting things that we did when we were young.”" 
Jeremiah31:20 But Israel's people are my own dear children. I still love them, even when I have to speak against them. I can never forget them. I only want to help them. I will certainly be kind to them.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah31:21 ‘People of Israel, put up signs along the roads, so that you know the right way to go. Remember the road that you travelled on when you went away from your land. Now return, my special people, Israel. Return to your cities that you had to leave." 
Jeremiah31:22 You went away from me, like a daughter who refuses to obey her father. Do not continue to turn away from me. I, the Lord, promise to do a new thing. Women will take care of men!’" 
Jeremiah31:23 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says this: ‘I will bring my people back from the land where they have been prisoners. Then the people in the towns of Judah will again say, “We pray that the Lord will bless you, Jerusalem. You are the special place where he lives on his holy mountain!”" 
Jeremiah31:24 People will live together in the towns of Judah. Farmers and shepherds will work in the fields. 
Jeremiah31:25 I will help those who feel tired. I will make those who feel weak strong again. 
Jeremiah31:26 Then they will say, “When I woke from my sleep and I looked around, I was happy.” ’" 
Jeremiah31:27 The Lord says this: ‘The time will come when I fill the lands of Israel and Judah with people and animals. 
Jeremiah31:28 In past time, I chose to pull them out of their land, like a plant with its roots. I knocked them down and I destroyed them. But now I will put them in their land again, like strong plants.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah31:29 ‘When that happens, people will not say, “The fathers have eaten bitter fruit, but it causes their children's teeth to hurt.”" 
Jeremiah31:30 Instead, I will punish everyone for their own sins. It will be the teeth of the person who eats bitter fruit that will hurt.’" 
Jeremiah31:31 The Lord says, ‘A time will soon come when I make a new covenant with Israel's people and with Judah's people." 
Jeremiah31:32 It will not be like the old covenant that I made with their ancestors. At that time, I brought them safely out of Egypt. I took care of them, like a faithful husband who takes care of his wife. But they did not obey my covenant.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah31:33 ‘Yes, I will make a new covenant with Israel's people at that time. It will be like this: I will put my Law deep inside them, in their hearts and minds. I will be their God, and they will be my people.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah31:34 ‘Then people will not have to teach their friends or their family about me. They will all know me already. The important people and the ordinary people will all know me. I will forgive the wicked things that they have done. I will no longer think about their sins.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah31:35 The Lord is the one who causes the sun to shine during the day. He causes the moon and the stars to shine at night. He causes the waves of the sea to move around and they make a loud noise. He is the Lord Almighty, and he makes this promise:" 
Jeremiah31:36 ‘I will always take care of Israel's people as my special nation. I will always cause the laws that rule everything to continue. I could never forget those laws, and I could never forget my people.’" 
Jeremiah31:37 The Lord says, ‘Nobody can measure the size of the sky. Nobody can dig down to the bottom of the earth's foundations. In the same way, I can never turn away from all Israel's people. I will not leave them, even though they have done wicked things.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah31:38 The Lord says this: ‘The time will soon come when this city of Jerusalem belongs to me again. You will build it all again, from the tower of Hananel to the Corner gate." 
Jeremiah31:39 The edge of the city will go straight from there to Gareb hill. Then it will turn south and go to Goah. 
Jeremiah31:40 The whole area will belong to the Lord as a holy place. It will include the valley where they throw dead bodies and the ashes from sacrifices. It will include all the fields of the Kidron Valley in the east, as far north as the corner of the Horse Gate. All of that will be my holy place. Nobody will ever again take the city or destroy it.’" 
Jeremiah32:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah when King Zedekiah had ruled Judah for ten years. At that time, King Nebuchadnezzar had ruled in Babylon for 18 years." 
Jeremiah32:2 Nebuchadnezzar's army had made their camp all around Jerusalem. Jeremiah was a prisoner in the city. Guards kept him in a yard of the palace of the king of Judah. 
Jeremiah32:3 King Zedekiah had put Jeremiah in prison there. He did not like the messages from God that Jeremiah was speaking. He said to Jeremiah, ‘You should stop saying these things! Do not continue to say, “The Lord will put this city under the power of the king of Babylon. The king of Babylon will take the city for himself." 
Jeremiah32:4 Zedekiah, king of Judah, will not escape from Babylon's army. They will take him to the king of Babylon. Zedekiah will have to stand in front of the king of Babylon and answer his questions." 
Jeremiah32:5 They will take Zedekiah away to Babylon as their prisoner. He will stay there until the Lord has punished him completely. If you continue to fight against Babylon's army, you will never win.” ’ That was the Lord 's message that Jeremiah had told Zedekiah." 
Jeremiah32:6 While Jeremiah was in prison, the Lord said to him," 
Jeremiah32:7 ‘Hanamel, the son of your uncle Shallum, will come to visit you. He will say to you, “I want you to buy my field in Anathoth. The Law says that I should offer it to you first, because you are my relative.” ’" 
Jeremiah32:8 This happened as the Lord had said it would happen. My cousin Hanamel came to visit me in the prison. He said, ‘Buy my field at Anathoth, in the land of Benjamin's tribe. I offer it to you first, as my relative. So you can buy it for yourself.’ When this happened, I realized I had really heard the Lord 's message." 
Jeremiah32:9 So I bought the field at Anathoth from my cousin Hanamel. I weighed 17 shekels of silver to pay him for it. 
Jeremiah32:10 I wrote my name on a piece of paper to show that I had bought the land. Some men watched as I did this, to agree to the sale. I closed the paper with a seal. Then I gave Hanamel the silver that I had weighed." 
Jeremiah32:11 I took the paper with the seal, and also a copy of it that had no seal. The agreement about the sale of land was written on those pieces of paper." 
Jeremiah32:12 I gave both pieces of paper to Baruch, the son of Neriah and grandson of Mahseiah. Hanamel watched me as I did this, as well as the men who had written their names on the paper. The people of Judah who were there in the guards' yard also watched me." 
Jeremiah32:13 While all those people listened, I said to Baruch," 
Jeremiah32:14 ‘The Lord Almighty, Israel's God says, “Take these two pieces of paper that have the agreement about the sale of land. Take the piece that has a seal on it and the piece without a seal. Put them both in a clay jar to keep them safe for a long time.”" 
Jeremiah32:15 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “A time will come when people in this land again buy houses, fields and vineyards.” ’" 
Jeremiah32:16 After I had given Baruch the pieces of paper about the sale of land, I prayed to the Lord." 
Jeremiah32:17 I said, ‘ Lord God, you used your great power and strength to make the earth and the sky. Nothing is too difficult for you to do." 
Jeremiah32:18 You show your faithful love to thousands of people. But you also punish people for the sins that their ancestors did in past times. You are the great and powerful God, the Lord Almighty." 
Jeremiah32:19 You have wise thoughts and you do great things. You see everything that people do. You see how they live. You give everyone what they deserve. 
Jeremiah32:20 You did powerful miracles in Egypt, and we still remember them today. In this way you continue to be famous in Israel and everywhere in the world." 
Jeremiah32:21 You used your great power and strength to bring your people out of Egypt. You did miracles that showed your power. It caused the Egyptians to be very afraid. 
Jeremiah32:22 You gave this land to the Israelites, as you had promised to their ancestors. It was a land where there was plenty of food and drink, enough for everyone." 
Jeremiah32:23 Your people moved in to the land and they made it their home. But they did not obey you. They did not live in the way that your Law taught them. They did not do the things that you commanded them to do. Because of that, you caused them to have all this terrible trouble." 
Jeremiah32:24 Babylon's army have already put heaps of earth around the city's walls. They are ready to attack us. War, famine and disease will soon kill us. Babylon's soldiers will come into the city and take it for themselves. Lord, you warned us that this would happen. Now you can see that it is already happening." 
Jeremiah32:25 I know that Babylon's army will soon get power over the city. But you still told me to use my silver to buy that field. And people watched me write my name on the paper.’ 
Jeremiah32:26 Then the Lord said to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah32:27 ‘I am the Lord, the God who rules all people. Nothing is too difficult for me to do." 
Jeremiah32:28 So I, the Lord, tell you this: I will certainly give this city to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon and his army. They will get power over it." 
Jeremiah32:29 The soldiers from Babylon who are attacking the city will come in. They will destroy it with fire. They will burn down the houses of the people. These people have made me angry. They went up on the roofs of their houses and they burned incense to worship Baal. They also poured out drink offerings to other false gods. 
Jeremiah32:30 The people of Israel and Judah have continued to do things that I see are evil. They have done those things since they were a young nation. They have always done things that make me angry. That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah32:31 The people of this city have made me very angry from the time when they built it, even until now. Because of that, I have decided to destroy it completely." 
Jeremiah32:32 The people of Israel and Judah have made me angry because of all the wicked things that they have done. Their kings, officers, priests and prophets have all done wicked things. I will destroy this city because of the wicked things that the people of Jerusalem and all of Judah have done." 
Jeremiah32:33 They should have come to me for help, but instead they turned away from me. Many times I taught them what was right. But they would not listen to me when I warned them." 
Jeremiah32:34 They put their disgusting idols in the temple. I chose that place to be my special home, but they have made it unclean." 
Jeremiah32:35 They have built altars in Ben-Hinnom valley to worship Baal. On those altars, they light fires to burn their sons and daughters as sacrifices to Molech. I never commanded them to do that. I never even thought about it. It has caused Judah's people to be guilty of sin." 
Jeremiah32:36 You are right to say, “War, famine and disease will cause the king of Babylon to get power over this city.” But I, the Lord, Israel's God, tell you this:" 
Jeremiah32:37 I will certainly bring my people back from the foreign countries where I will send them. I will send them away as prisoners because they have made me very angry. But I will bring them back to this place so that they can live here safely. 
Jeremiah32:38 They will be my people and I will be their God. 
Jeremiah32:39 I will make them all want to do one thing. They will want to live in a way that always pleases me. They will do that so that they enjoy good lives and their children also enjoy good lives after them. 
Jeremiah32:40 I will make a covenant with them that will continue for ever. I will promise always to do good things for them. They will want to respect me and obey me so that they never turn away from me again. That is what I will do for them. 
Jeremiah32:41 I will be happy to help them with good things. I promise them faithfully that I will put them in this land again. They will grow like strong plants.’ 
Jeremiah32:42 The Lord says this: ‘It is true that I have brought terrible trouble to this people. But in the same way, I will give them all the good things that I have promised." 
Jeremiah32:43 At this time, you are saying, “Babylon's army will take power over our land. It will become like a desert. No people or animals will live in it.” But I tell you that one day people will again buy and sell fields in this land." 
Jeremiah32:44 They will pay silver to buy fields. There will be pieces of paper that show the agreement for the sale. There will be seals on those papers. People will watch and agree that the sale has happened. People will buy fields in the land that belongs to Benjamin's tribe and in the villages round Jerusalem. They will buy land in the towns of Judah, in the hill country, in the low hills in the west and in the Negev region in the south. At that time, I will bring my people back to live safely in their land. I, the Lord, promise that this will happen!’" 
Jeremiah33:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah a second time while he was in prison in the yard of the palace. 
Jeremiah33:2 He said, ‘I am the Lord who made the earth. I gave a shape to it and I put it in its place. The Lord is my name. I say this to you:" 
Jeremiah33:3 “Call out to me and I will answer you. I will tell you about great things. They are secret things that you do not yet know.” 
Jeremiah33:4 The Lord, Israel's God, has a message about the houses in this city and about the royal palaces of Judah's kings. The people have knocked down the city's buildings. They have used the stones to make the city's walls stronger," 
Jeremiah33:5 to fight against Babylon's army. The Lord says, “The city's houses will be full of dead bodies. I am very angry with the people in the city and I will kill them. I will refuse to help this city because of the wicked things that its people have done." 
Jeremiah33:6 But listen to me! I will bring health again to the people of this city. I will make my people well again. They will live safely in peace. 
Jeremiah33:7 I will bring back the people of Judah and Israel from foreign lands. I will make them a strong nation, as they were before." 
Jeremiah33:8 They have done bad things and they have turned against me. But I will forgive all their sins that they have done against me. 
Jeremiah33:9 Then this city will cause the people of all the nations on the earth to give me honour. They will praise me and make me happy. They will hear about all the good things that I am doing for Jerusalem. They will see that I have caused its people to have health and peace. Because of that, they will respect me and they will shake with fear.” " 
Jeremiah33:10 The Lord says, “You say that this place is like a desert, and no people or animals live here. But I tell you that people will return to live here. You will hear the voices of people in the streets of Jerusalem and in the towns of Judah that are now empty." 
Jeremiah33:11 You will hear the sounds of happy people. You will hear the songs of men and women at their weddings. You will hear the voices of people as they bring gifts to the Lord 's temple to thank him. They will say, ‘We thank the Lord Almighty, because he is good. His faithful love continues for ever.’ Yes, I will make the land successful again, as it was before.” That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah33:12 The Lord Almighty says, “This place will become a heap of stones. No people or animals will live here. But I will put fields of grass around the towns again. There will be places for shepherds to rest with their sheep." 
Jeremiah33:13 Shepherds will count their sheep again, one by one. They will do that in the towns of the hill country, in the low hills in the west and in the Negev region in the south. They will do it in the land that belongs to Benjamin's tribe, in the villages around Jerusalem and in all the towns of Judah.” That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah33:14 The Lord also says, “A time will soon come when I do good things for the nations of Israel and Judah. I will do what I have promised to do for them." 
Jeremiah33:15 At that time, I will cause a descendant of David to be born. He will be righteous. He will grow like a branch on the tree of David's family. He will do what is right and fair in the land." 
Jeremiah33:16 When he rules, the people of Judah will be safe. Jerusalem's people will live in peace. People will give this name to the city: ‘The Lord is our righteous Saviour ’. ”" 
Jeremiah33:17 The Lord says, “One of David's descendants will always rule as king over the nation of Israel." 
Jeremiah33:18 There will always be priests who are descendants of Levi. They will serve me in my temple. They will always be there to offer burnt offerings, grain offerings and other sacrifices to me.” ’" 
Jeremiah33:19 The Lord also said this to Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah33:20 ‘I, the Lord, say to you, “The day and the night will always come at their proper times. I have made that agreement with them, and nobody can stop it." 
Jeremiah33:21 In the same way, nobody can stop the covenant that I have made with my servant David, and with the Levites. I promise you that there will always be a descendant of King David who rules as king. I also promise that there will always be descendants of Levi to serve me as priests." 
Jeremiah33:22 I promise that my servant David will always have many descendants. There will also be very many Levites to serve me as priests. You will not be able to count them. They will be more than the stars in the sky and more than the sand on the shore of the sea.” ’ 
Jeremiah33:23 The Lord also said to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah33:24 ‘Some people are saying, “The Lord chose the two nations of Israel and Judah to be his special people. But now he has turned away from them.” You have heard people say those things. They do not think that my people will ever be a nation again." 
Jeremiah33:25 But I promise you this: Nobody can stop the agreement that I have made with the day and the night. I have also commanded the earth and the sky to obey certain laws. 
Jeremiah33:26 In the same way, I will never change my promise to the descendants of Jacob and to my servant David. I will always choose one of David's descendants to rule over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I will bring them back to their own land. I will be kind to them and I will forgive them.’" 
Jeremiah34:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah again, while King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon and his army were attacking Jerusalem. Soldiers from all the kingdoms that King Nebuchadnezzar ruled joined with Babylon's own soldiers to make a large army. They were attacking Jerusalem and the towns around it." 
Jeremiah34:2 The Lord, Israel's God, said to Jeremiah, ‘Go to Zedekiah, king of Judah, and give him this message: The Lord says, “I will put this city under the power of the king of Babylon. He will burn it down." 
Jeremiah34:3 You will not be able to escape. Babylon's soldiers will certainly take hold of you. They will take you to the king of Babylon. You will have to stand in front of the king of Babylon and answer his questions. Then you will go to Babylon as his prisoner. 
Jeremiah34:4 But listen to the promise that the Lord makes to you, Zedekiah, king of Judah. I, the Lord, promise you that you will not die in a battle." 
Jeremiah34:5 Instead, you will die with peace in your mind. People will burn incense to give you honour when they bury you. They did that for your ancestors who ruled as kings before you. They will do it for you too. When you die, people will weep because they are sad. They will say, ‘This is terrible! Our king has died!’ That is my promise to you, says the Lord.” ’" 
Jeremiah34:6 The prophet Jeremiah told all this to King Zedekiah of Judah, in Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah34:7 This happened when the king of Babylon's army were attacking Jerusalem and the cities of Lachish and Azekah. Those were the only strong cities in Judah that were not yet under his power. 
Jeremiah34:8 At another time, the Lord gave Jeremiah another message for King Zedekiah. Zedekiah had made an agreement with the people of Jerusalem. They all agreed to let their slaves go free." 
Jeremiah34:9 Everyone in Judah who had a Hebrew slave must let their slave go free, both male and female slaves. Nobody should keep another Israelite person as their slave." 
Jeremiah34:10 All the officers and the people agreed with the king that they would do this. They would not continue to have male or female slaves. They let them go free, as they had promised." 
Jeremiah34:11 But later, they decided that they would not do that. They took the men and women back to work for them as slaves again. They forced them to do that." 
Jeremiah34:12 Then the Lord said to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah34:13 ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says this to the people: I made a covenant with your ancestors when I brought them out of Egypt. They had been slaves when they were there." 
Jeremiah34:14 I told them, “When any Hebrew slave has worked for you for six years, you must let them go free. In the seventh year after they sold themselves to you, you must set them free.” But your ancestors did not listen to me. They did not obey me." 
Jeremiah34:15 But now, you yourselves agreed to do what pleases me. You decided to obey me. You made a serious agreement with me in the temple, which is my home. You let your slaves go free." 
Jeremiah34:16 But now you have turned back to your old ways. You have refused to give me honour. You had let your slaves go free, as they wanted to do. But now you have forced them to work for you as your slaves again." 
Jeremiah34:17 So I, the Lord, tell you this: You have not obeyed me. You have not let your Israelite slaves become free men and women. So now I will make you free! Yes, you will be free to let war, famine or disease kill you. People of all the kingdoms in the world will see how disgusting you are." 
Jeremiah34:18 I will punish the people who did not obey the agreement that they made with me. When they made that agreement, they cut a young cow into two pieces and they walked between the pieces. Because they have not obeyed their agreement, I will now cut them into pieces, like the young cow." 
Jeremiah34:19 I will punish the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem, the king's officers and the priests. I will punish all the people of Judah who refused to obey the agreement that they made with me." 
Jeremiah34:20 I will put them under the power of their enemies. Their enemies will kill them. Birds and wild animals will eat their dead bodies as food. 
Jeremiah34:21 I will also put King Zedekiah of Judah and his officers under the power of their enemies. Their enemies will want to kill them. The king of Babylon's army has stopped attacking Jerusalem for a time. But I will put King Zedekiah and his officers under their power. 
Jeremiah34:22 I will command Babylon's army to return to this city. They will fight against it and they will take it. They will burn the city down. I will also cause the other towns of Judah to become heaps of stones. Nobody will live in them any more.’ 
Jeremiah35:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah when Josiah's son Jehoiakim ruled Judah as king. 
Jeremiah35:2 He said, ‘Go to the place where Rekab's descendants live. Ask them to come to the Lord 's temple. Take them into one of the temple's small rooms. Give them some wine to drink.’" 
Jeremiah35:3 So I went to meet with Rekab's descendants. They were Jaazaniah, son of Jeremiah and grandson of Habazziniah. I also met with Jaazaniah's brothers and all his sons. Those were all the descendants of Rekab." 
Jeremiah35:4 I took them to the Lord 's temple. I took them into the room where the disciples of the prophet Hanan lived. He was the son of Igdaliah. That room was next to the room where the temple officers lived. It was also above the room where Shallum's son Maaseiah lived. He was one of the guards for the doors of the temple. 
Jeremiah35:5 I put some jars of wine and some cups in front of Rekab's descendants. I said to them, ‘Drink some wine.’" 
Jeremiah35:6 They replied, ‘We do not drink wine. Our ancestor Jonadab, son of Rekab, said to us, “You and your descendants must never drink wine." 
Jeremiah35:7 You must not build houses. You must not plant seed in fields to grow crops. You must not plant vines or have a vineyard. Instead, you must always live in tents. If you live in that way, you will live for a long time as you travel around in the land.”" 
Jeremiah35:8 We have obeyed all the rules that our ancestor Jonadab gave to us. Our wives and our children have also obeyed them. We have never drunk wine. 
Jeremiah35:9 We have never built houses to be our homes. We have no fields or vineyards and we grow no crops. 
Jeremiah35:10 We have always lived in tents. So we have completely obeyed our ancestor Jonadab. We have done everything that he commanded us to do. 
Jeremiah35:11 But when King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon attacked our land, we decided to come to Jerusalem. We said, “We must leave here and go to Jerusalem. We must escape from the armies of Babylon and Syria.” That is why we are now living in Jerusalem.’" 
Jeremiah35:12 Then the Lord gave this message to Jeremiah. 
Jeremiah35:13 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, said to him, ‘Go and speak to the people of Judah, including those who live in Jerusalem. Tell them that I, the Lord, say this: “Learn a lesson about how you should obey me!" 
Jeremiah35:14 Rekab's son Jonadab commanded his descendants that they must not drink wine. They have obeyed his command. Even now, they have never drunk wine because their ancestor told them not to do that. But as for you, I have spoken to you very many times and you have not obeyed me!" 
Jeremiah35:15 I have sent my servants the prophets to warn you many times. They told you, ‘You must all stop doing wicked things. Instead, start doing the things that are right. Do not serve other gods and worship them. Then you will continue to live in this land that I gave to you and to your ancestors.’ But you did not listen to my message. You did not obey me." 
Jeremiah35:16 The descendants of Rekab's son Jonadab obeyed the commands that their ancestor gave to them. But as for you, my people, you have not obeyed me.”" 
Jeremiah35:17 So the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “Listen to me! I will soon punish the people of Judah and Jerusalem with all the things that I warned them about. I spoke to them, but they did not listen. I called out to them, but they did not answer. So now I will punish them.” ’" 
Jeremiah35:18 Then Jeremiah said to Rekab's descendants, ‘The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “You have completely obeyed the commands of your ancestor Jonadab. You have done everything that he told you to do.”" 
Jeremiah35:19 So the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, also says, “There will always be a male descendant of Rekab's son Jonadab who will live to serve me.” ’" 
Jeremiah36:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah in the fourth year that Josiah's son Jehoiakim ruled Judah as king. He said," 
Jeremiah36:2 ‘Write down on a scroll all the messages that I have spoken to you. Since Josiah was king until now, I have given you messages about Israel, Judah and the other nations. Write them all on a scroll." 
Jeremiah36:3 That will warn the people of Judah about the very bad things that I have decided to do to them. When they hear about it, perhaps they will stop doing the evil things that they have been doing. Then I will forgive their sins and everything wrong that they have done.’" 
Jeremiah36:4 So Jeremiah told Neriah's son Baruch to come to him. Jeremiah spoke all the words that the Lord had told him to say. Baruch wrote them down on a scroll. 
Jeremiah36:5 Then Jeremiah said to Baruch, ‘The officers will not let me go to the Lord 's temple." 
Jeremiah36:6 So you must go to the temple yourself. Go on a special day when people are fasting and they have come from their towns. Read the words that you wrote on the scroll to the people, so that they can all hear them." 
Jeremiah36:7 Perhaps they will ask the Lord to forgive them. Perhaps they will stop doing all the evil things that they have been doing. The Lord is very angry with them and he has warned them that he will punish them.’ 
Jeremiah36:8 Neriah's son Baruch did everything that the prophet Jeremiah had told him. He went to the Lord 's temple. He read the Lord 's message that was written on the scroll. 
Jeremiah36:9 That happened in the ninth month of the fifth year that Jehoiakim ruled Judah as king. People from all Judah's towns had come to Jerusalem. They joined with the people of Jerusalem to fast and pray in the Lord 's temple. 
Jeremiah36:10 Baruch stood in the temple, at the entrance of the room of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan. Shaphan had been the king's secretary. Gemariah's room was in the higher yard of the temple, near the New Gate. Baruch stood there. He read the Lord 's message that Jeremiah had told him to write on the scroll." 
Jeremiah36:11 Micaiah, son of Gemariah and grandson of Shaphan, heard the Lord 's message as Baruch read it aloud." 
Jeremiah36:12 Then Micaiah went to the secretary's room in the king's palace. All the king's officers were meeting there. They included: the king's secretary Elishama, Shemaiah's son Delaiah, Akbor's son Elnathan, Shaphan's son Gemariah, and Hananiah's son Zedekiah. All the officers were sitting there." 
Jeremiah36:13 Micaiah told them everything that he had heard when Baruch read the scroll aloud to the people. 
Jeremiah36:14 The officers sent somebody to go and speak to Baruch. They sent Jehudi, son of Nethaniah, and the grandson of Cushi's son, Shelemiah. They told him to say to Baruch, ‘Bring here to us the scroll with the words that you read aloud to the people.’ So Neriah's son Baruch went to them. He took the scroll with him in his hand." 
Jeremiah36:15 The officers said to him, ‘Please sit down and read it to us.’ So Baruch read it to them." 
Jeremiah36:16 They listened to the words that Baruch had written on the scroll. They looked at each other in fear. They said to Baruch, ‘We must certainly report this to the king. We must tell him about everything that you have read to us.’" 
Jeremiah36:17 They also asked Baruch, ‘Please tell us how you wrote all these words. Did Jeremiah himself tell you what to write?’" 
Jeremiah36:18 Baruch said, ‘Yes, he told me what I should write. Then I used ink to write the words on this scroll.’" 
Jeremiah36:19 The officers said to Baruch, ‘You and Jeremiah must go and hide yourselves. Do not tell anyone where you are.’" 
Jeremiah36:20 The officers put the scroll into the room of Elishama, the king's secretary, to keep it safe. Then they went to see the king. He was in the palace yard. They reported to him everything that they had heard." 
Jeremiah36:21 Then the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll. Jehudi brought the scroll from Elishama's room in the temple. Then he read the message that was written on the scroll. He read it aloud to the king and to all the officers who were standing around him. 
Jeremiah36:22 It was autumn, so the king was sitting in the rooms that he used when it was cold. A fire was burning beside him." 
Jeremiah36:23 Jehudi read a small section of the words that were written on the scroll. As soon as he finished each section, the king cut off that part of the scroll with a knife. He threw each piece of the scroll on the fire. The king continued to do that until fire had burned up the whole scroll." 
Jeremiah36:24 As the king and his officers heard Jehudi read each section of the scroll, it did not make them afraid. None of them tore their clothes because they were upset." 
Jeremiah36:25 Elnathan, Delaiah and Gemariah asked the king very strongly not to burn the scroll. But the king refused to listen to them." 
Jeremiah36:26 Instead, the king told Prince Jerahmeel to go and find the secretary Baruch and the prophet Jeremiah. Jerahmeel went with Azriel's son Seraiah and Abdeel's son Shelemiah to take hold of them. But the Lord had hidden Baruch and Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah36:27 After the king had destroyed the scroll on which Baruch had written Jeremiah's words, the Lord spoke to Jeremiah again." 
Jeremiah36:28 He said, ‘Take another scroll. Write on it everything that was written on the first scroll that King Jehoiakim of Judah burned in the fire." 
Jeremiah36:29 Then tell the king that the Lord says this: “You burned the scroll because you did not like the message that was written on it. It said that the king of Babylon would come to destroy this land, with all its people and animals. You warned Jeremiah that he should not write things like that.”" 
Jeremiah36:30 So now the Lord says this to you, Jehoiakim, king of Judah: “None of your descendants will rule David's kingdom of Judah. When you die, people will not bury your body. They will throw your dead body on the ground. As it lies there, the sun will burn it in the daytime. At night it will be cold with frost." 
Jeremiah36:31 I will punish you, your descendants and your officers because you have all done wicked things. I will also bring terrible trouble on the people of Jerusalem and all of Judah. I will punish everyone in the way that I promised I would do. I warned them, but they did not listen to me.” ’" 
Jeremiah36:32 Then Jeremiah took another scroll. He gave it to Neriah's son, Baruch, the secretary. Jeremiah spoke the same message that Baruch had written on the first scroll. That was the scroll that King Jehoiakim of Judah had burned in the fire. They also added more messages that were like the first one." 
Jeremiah37:1 Josiah's son Zedekiah became king of Judah. King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon chose Zedekiah to be king instead of Jehoiakim's son, Jeconiah." 
Jeremiah37:2 Zedekiah did not obey the Lord 's messages that Jeremiah spoke. The king's officers and the people of Judah did not obey those messages either. 
Jeremiah37:3 King Zedekiah sent a message to the prophet Jeremiah. He sent Jehucal, Shelemiah's son, and the priest Zephaniah, Maaseiah's son, to deliver this message: ‘Please pray to the Lord our God for us.’" 
Jeremiah37:3 King Zedekiah sent a message to the prophet Jeremiah. He sent Jehucal, Shelemiah's son, and the priest Zephaniah, Maaseiah's son, to deliver this message: ‘Please pray to the Lord our God for us.’" 
Jeremiah37:4 Jeremiah was a free man at this time. They had not yet put him in prison. He could go where he wanted among the people. 
Jeremiah37:5 The army of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, had marched out of Egypt. Babylon's soldiers who were attacking Jerusalem heard news about that. So they went away from Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah37:6 Then the Lord gave this message to the prophet Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah37:7 ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says: Go to the king of Judah, who sent you to ask for my help. Tell him, “Pharaoh's army marched out of Egypt to bring you help. But they will turn back and return to their own land, Egypt." 
Jeremiah37:8 Then Babylon's army will return here. They will attack this city. They will take it for themselves. They will burn it completely.” 
Jeremiah37:9 The Lord also says, “Do not deceive yourselves. Do not think that Babylon's soldiers will go away and leave you alone. They will not go away!" 
Jeremiah37:10 You might even win the fight against the whole army that is attacking you. There might be only a few of Babylon's soldiers who remain. You might have hurt them so much that they are lying down in their tents. But those weak men would still get up and attack this city. They would completely burn down this city.” ’ 
Jeremiah37:11 At that time, Babylon's army had gone away from Jerusalem because Pharaoh's army was coming." 
Jeremiah37:12 So Jeremiah started to leave Jerusalem. He wanted to go to the land that belonged to Benjamin's tribe. He wanted to receive his part of the land that belonged to his family. 
Jeremiah37:13 He was going out through the Benjamin gate of the city. Irijah, the son of Shelemiah and grandson of Hananiah, stopped him. Irijah was the captain of the guards at the gate. He took hold of Jeremiah. He said, ‘You are going out of the city to join Babylon's army!’" 
Jeremiah37:14 Jeremiah said, ‘That is not true! I would never help the soldiers from Babylon.’ But Irijah would not listen to him. So he took Jeremiah to the king's officers as his prisoner." 
Jeremiah37:15 The officers were very angry with Jeremiah. They beat him with sticks. They put him in a strong room of Jonathan's house. Jonathan was the king's secretary. They had made his house into a place to keep hold of prisoners. 
Jeremiah37:16 They put Jeremiah in a small room in the ground under the house. He stayed there for a long time. 
Jeremiah37:17 Then King Zedekiah told his officers to bring Jeremiah to the palace. When they were alone, the king asked him, ‘Do you have any message for me from the Lord?’ Jeremiah replied, ‘Yes, there is a message. Soldiers will put you under the power of the king of Babylon.’" 
Jeremiah37:18 Then Jeremiah asked King Zedekiah, ‘Why have your officers put me in prison? Do I deserve that? Have I done something bad against you, your officers or the people of Judah?" 
Jeremiah37:19 Your own prophets said that the king of Babylon would not attack you or the land of Judah. That was a lie, so what have you done to them?" 
Jeremiah37:20 Please help me now, my master, the king. Do not send me back to the house of your secretary Jonathan. If you do that, I will die there.’" 
Jeremiah37:21 Then King Zedekiah told his officers to put Jeremiah in the palace yard where the guards would watch him. He told them to get bread every day from the bakers in the city and give it to Jeremiah. They should do that until there was no more bread in the city. So they kept Jeremiah as prisoner in the palace yard with the royal guards. 
Jeremiah38:1 Some of Jerusalem's officers heard the things that Jeremiah had been telling the people. They were Mattan's son Shephatiah, Pashhur's son Gedaliah, Shelemiah's son Jehucal and Malkijah's son Pashhur." 
Jeremiah38:2 They had heard him say this: ‘The Lord says, “Any people who stay in this city will die. War or famine or disease will kill them. But those people who leave the city will not die. If they put themselves under the power of Babylon's soldiers, they will live.” " 
Jeremiah38:3 The Lord also says, “I will put this city under the power of the king of Babylon's army. They will take it for themselves.” ’" 
Jeremiah38:4 When the officers heard that, they said to the king, ‘You must punish this man with death. He is making our soldiers who remain in the city afraid. The things that he says are making all the people in the city very afraid. He does not want to help our people. He wants to destroy them.’" 
Jeremiah38:5 King Zedekiah said to them, ‘You can do to Jeremiah whatever you want to do. I cannot stop you.’" 
Jeremiah38:6 So the officers took hold of Jeremiah. They put him in a deep hole in the palace yard where the guards were. Prince Malkijah had made the hole to store water. There was no water in the hole, but only mud. They tied ropes around Jeremiah and they slowly dropped him into the hole. Jeremiah fell deep into the mud." 
Jeremiah38:7 There was an officer who served the king in his palace. His name was Ebed-Melech. He came from Ethiopia. He heard the news that some officers had put Jeremiah into the deep hole in the palace yard. At that time the king was sitting as judge at the Benjamin Gate of the city. 
Jeremiah38:8 So Ebed-Melech quickly left the palace. He went to speak to the king. He said to him," 
Jeremiah38:9 ‘My master, the king, those men have done very wicked things to the prophet Jeremiah. They have put him in a deep hole. He will soon die there because there is no food in the city.’" 
Jeremiah38:10 Then the king gave this command to Ebed-Melech. He said, ‘Take 30 men with you from here. Go and lift Jeremiah out of the deep hole before he dies.’" 
Jeremiah38:11 So Ebed-Melech took the men with him. He went to a room in the palace where they stored valuable things. He took some old clothes and pieces of cloth from there. He tied them to the end of some ropes. Then he let them drop down into the deep hole where Jeremiah was. 
Jeremiah38:12 He said to Jeremiah, ‘Put these old cloths and clothes under your arms. Then tie the ropes over them so that they do not hurt you.’ Jeremiah did as Ebed-Melech told him." 
Jeremiah38:13 Then they pulled Jeremiah up out of the deep hole. But Jeremiah still had to stay in the palace yard with the guards. 
Jeremiah38:14 One day, King Zedekiah sent some men to bring Jeremiah to meet with him. They met at the third gate of the Lord 's temple. The king said to Jeremiah, ‘I would like to ask you a question. Do not hide anything from me.’" 
Jeremiah38:15 Jeremiah said to the king, ‘If I give you a true answer, you will surely kill me. If I give you advice, you will not agree.’" 
Jeremiah38:16 But King Zedekiah made a serious promise to Jeremiah. Nobody else knew about it. He said, ‘I promise you that this is true, as surely as the Lord lives. I promise that I will not kill you. And I will not give you to the men who want to kill you.’" 
Jeremiah38:17 Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, ‘The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “You must put yourself under the power of the king of Babylon's officers. If you do that, you will not die. Your enemies will not burn down this city. You and your family will continue to live." 
Jeremiah38:18 But if you do not agree to be under their power, they will take this city for themselves. They will burn it down. You yourself will become their prisoner.” ’" 
Jeremiah38:19 King Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, ‘I am afraid to do that. Some of Judah's people have gone out of the city to help Babylon's army. Babylon's officers might give me to them and they will be very cruel to me.’" 
Jeremiah38:20 Jeremiah answered the king, ‘They will not give you to those people of Judah. Obey the Lord and do as I tell you. Then you will continue to enjoy your life." 
Jeremiah38:21 But if you refuse to put yourself under the power of the enemy, a terrible thing will happen to you. The Lord has shown me this in a vision." 
Jeremiah38:22 The enemy's soldiers will bring out all the women in the palace of Judah's king. They will give those women to the king of Babylon's officers. The women will say to you, “Your friends that you trusted to help you have deceived you. They have won against you. Your feet are now deep in the mud and you cannot move. So your friends have gone away and left you.”" 
Jeremiah38:23 Babylon's soldiers will take all your wives and your children for themselves. You yourself will not escape from them. The king of Babylon will take hold of you as his prisoner. His soldiers will burn down this city.’ 
Jeremiah38:24 Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, ‘Do not tell anyone what we have talked about. If you do tell anyone, you will surely die." 
Jeremiah38:25 My officers may know that we have talked together. They may come to you and ask you, “Tell us what you talked about with the king. Tell us everything that you said. If not, we will kill you.”" 
Jeremiah38:26 If that happens, tell them, “I was asking the king to help me. I did not want him to send me back to be a prisoner in Jonathan's house. I did not want to die there.” ’" 
Jeremiah38:27 All the officers did come to Jeremiah to ask him about his meeting with the king. Jeremiah said to them everything that the king had told him to say. Nobody had heard what Jeremiah and the king had really talked about. So the officers stopped asking Jeremiah any more questions. 
Jeremiah38:28 After that, Jeremiah stayed in the palace yard as a prisoner. He stayed there until the day when Babylon's army took Jerusalem for themselves." 
Jeremiah39:1 This is how the army of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon got power over Jerusalem. In the tenth month of the ninth year that Zedekiah had ruled Judah as king, Nebuchadnezzar's army marched to attack Jerusalem. The whole army made their camp around the city." 
Jeremiah39:2 They stayed there until the ninth day of the fourth month of the 11th year that Zedekiah had been king. On that day, Babylon's soldiers broke through the walls of the city." 
Jeremiah39:3 The king of Babylon's officers came into Jerusalem. They sat at the Middle Gate of the city. The officers were Nergal-Sharezer from Samgar, an important officer called Nebo-Sarsekim, and another important officer also called Nergal-Sharezer. All the other officers of the king of Babylon met with them there." 
Jeremiah39:4 King Zedekiah of Judah and all his soldiers tried to escape when they saw Babylon's soldiers in the city. They left the city at night. They took a path through the king's garden and went through the gate between the two walls of the city. Then they ran towards the Jordan Valley. 
Jeremiah39:5 But the soldiers of Babylon's army chased after them. They caught Zedekiah on the flat land near Jericho. They took him to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon at Riblah, in the region called Hamath. King Nebuchadnezzar decided that Zedekiah was guilty." 
Jeremiah39:6 He decided how he would punish Zedekiah. He told his soldiers to kill all Zedekiah's sons, while Zedekiah watched. Nebuchadnezzar also punished all the important men of Judah with death." 
Jeremiah39:7 Then they cut out Zedekiah's eyes to make him blind. They tied him with chains to take him to Babylon as their prisoner. 
Jeremiah39:8 Babylon's soldiers destroyed the king's palace with fire. They also destroyed the temple and the people's houses in Jerusalem. They knocked down the walls around the city. 
Jeremiah39:9 Nebuzaradan, the captain of King Nebuchadnezzar's guards, took hold of all the people who remained in Jerusalem. He sent them away as prisoners to Babylon. He also sent away the people of Judah who had joined Babylon's army." 
Jeremiah39:10 But Captain Nebuzaradan let some of the very poor people remain in Judah. He gave them some fields and vineyards to take care of. 
Jeremiah39:11 King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon had commanded Captain Nebuzaradan what to do with Jeremiah. 
Jeremiah39:12 He said, ‘Find Jeremiah and take care of him. Do not hurt him. Help him in any way that he asks you.’" 
Jeremiah39:13 So Captain Nebuzaradan, an important officer called Nebushazban, Nergal-Sharezer, the king's advisor, and all King Nebuchadnezzar's other officers did that." 
Jeremiah39:14 They sent some men to bring Jeremiah from the palace yard. They told Gedaliah to take care of Jeremiah. Gedaliah was Ahikam's son and Shaphan's grandson. He took Jeremiah to his home. So Jeremiah continued to live among his own people. 
Jeremiah39:15 The Lord had spoken to Jeremiah while he was still a prisoner in the palace yard. 
Jeremiah39:16 The Lord said, ‘Tell the Ethiopian man, Ebed-Melech, this: The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “I will punish this city as I promised to do. I will send terrible trouble instead of help. You will see this when it happens." 
Jeremiah39:17 But I will rescue you at that time. I promise you that. The people that you are afraid of will not take hold of you. 
Jeremiah39:18 I will certainly save you. You will not die in battle. You trusted me, so I will keep your life safe. I, the Lord, say that to you.” ’" 
Jeremiah40:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah again after Captain Nebuzaradan let him go free at Ramah. Jeremiah was with all the other people of Jerusalem and Judah that Captain Nebuzaradan was taking to Babylon. He was taking them in chains as his prisoners. But he removed the chains from Jeremiah in Ramah. 
Jeremiah40:2 He said this to Jeremiah when they were alone: ‘The Lord your God warned your people that he would bring trouble to this place. 
Jeremiah40:3 Now he has done that. The Lord has done what he promised to do. He sent this trouble because your people did not obey the Lord. They turned against him. 
Jeremiah40:4 But today I am taking the chains off your hands so that you can go free. You can come with me to Babylon, if you choose to do that. If you come, I will take care of you. But if you do not choose to come with me, you do not have to do that. You are a free man. You may go to any part of the land that you choose.’" 
Jeremiah40:5 But before Jeremiah turned away from him, Captain Nebuzaradan said, ‘Return to Ahikam's son Gedaliah. The king of Babylon chose him to rule over the towns of Judah. Go and live with Gedaliah, among the people of Judah. Or you may go to any other place that you choose.’ Captain Nebuzaradan gave Jeremiah some food and a gift. Then he let him go." 
Jeremiah40:6 So Jeremiah went to live with Gedaliah in Mizpah. He stayed among the few people who continued to live in Judah. 
Jeremiah40:7 Some officers of Judah's army were living in fields in the country, with their soldiers. They heard news that the king of Babylon had chosen Ahikam's son Gedaliah to have authority over Judah. He ruled over the very poor people of Judah who continued to live there. They were the men, women and children that Babylon's soldiers had not taken away as prisoners." 
Jeremiah40:8 These army officers and their soldiers came to meet with Gedaliah at Mizpah. The officers were: Nethaniah's son, Ishmael; Kareah's sons, Johanan and Jonathan; Tanhumeth's son, Seraiah; the sons of Ephai, who came from Netophah; and Jaazaniah, whose father came from Maakah." 
Jeremiah40:9 Gedaliah made a serious promise to them that he would not hurt them. He said, ‘Do not be afraid to serve the soldiers from Babylon. Make your homes here in our land, but agree to serve the king of Babylon. If you do that, you will be successful." 
Jeremiah40:10 I myself will stay here in Mizpah. If Babylon's officers come to visit me, I will speak on your behalf. But you should go and live in the towns that you have taken for yourselves. Then you can eat the things that you grow in your fields. You can pick grapes to make wine and olives to make oil. You can pick dates and figs. You can store these things in jars.’" 
Jeremiah40:11 There were people of Judah who had run away to live in Moab, Ammon, Edom and other countries. They heard the news that the king of Babylon had let some people continue to live in Judah. They also heard that he had chosen Ahikam's son Gedaliah to be their ruler." 
Jeremiah40:12 As a result, all those people returned to their homes in Judah. On their way, they stopped in Mizpah to meet Gedaliah. When they arrived, they picked a big harvest of dates, figs and grapes to make wine." 
Jeremiah40:13 Kareah's son Johanan came to Mizpah to see Gedaliah. He came with the other army officers who had been hiding in the country. 
Jeremiah40:14 They said to Gedaliah, ‘You should know that King Baalis of Ammon has sent Nethaniah's son Ishmael to kill you.’ But Gedaliah did not believe them." 
Jeremiah40:15 So while Johanan was in Mizpah, he went to speak to Gedaliah alone. He said, ‘Let me go and kill Nethaniah's son Ishmael. Nobody will know who did it. If I do not kill him, he will surely kill you. Then the people of Judah who are here with you will run away. The few people who still remain in Judah will all disappear.’" 
Jeremiah40:16 But Ahikam's son, Gedaliah, said to Kareah's son, Johanan, ‘Do not do that! I do not believe the things that you tell me about Ishmael.’" 
Jeremiah41:1 But in the seventh month of the year, Nethaniah's son Ishmael went to Mizpah to visit Ahikam's son Gedaliah. Ishmael was the grandson of Elishama who belonged to the royal family. He had been an officer who served King Zedekiah. Ishmael brought ten of his men with him. They were all eating a meal with Gedaliah in Mizpah." 
Jeremiah41:2 During the meal, Ishmael and his ten men stood up. They took hold of their swords and they killed Gedaliah, Ahikam's son and grandson of Shaphan. Ishmael and his men killed the man that the king of Babylon had chosen to rule Judah." 
Jeremiah41:3 Ishmael also killed the men of Judah and the soldiers of Babylon who were there with Gedaliah. 
Jeremiah41:4 The next day, before anyone knew about Gedaliah's murder," 
Jeremiah41:5 80 men arrived in Mizpah. They had come from their homes in Shechem, Shiloh and Samaria. They brought grain offerings and incense to offer to the Lord in his temple. They had cut off their beards, torn their clothes and cut their skin to show that they were very upset." 
Jeremiah41:6 Nethaniah's son Ishmael went out of the city to meet them. He was weeping as he went. When he met the men, he said to them, ‘Come with me to meet Ahikam's son Gedaliah.’" 
Jeremiah41:7 So they all went into the city. Then Ishmael and his men killed them. They threw the dead bodies into a deep hole which stored water. 
Jeremiah41:8 But ten of the men said, ‘Please do not kill us! We have hidden lots of wheat, barley, olive oil and honey in a field. We will give it to you.’ So Ishmael let them stay alive. He did not kill them with the other men." 
Jeremiah41:9 Ishmael filled the deep hole with all the dead bodies of the men he had murdered. The hole had been built by King Asa to store water. Asa had dug holes like that to keep the city safe from King Baasha of Israel. 
Jeremiah41:10 Then Ishmael took hold of all the other people in Mizpah who were still alive. He made them his prisoners. These people included the king's daughters, as well as all the other people who remained in Mizpah. Captain Nebuzaradan had said that Ahikam's son Gedaliah would have authority over those people. But Ishmael took them away as his prisoners. He started to take them towards the land of Ammon." 
Jeremiah41:11 Kareah's son Johanan and the army officers who were with him heard news about what had happened. They heard about the wicked things that Nethaniah's son Ishmael had done. 
Jeremiah41:12 So they took all their soldiers to go and fight against Ishmael. They chased after him. They caught him near the large pool at Gibeon. 
Jeremiah41:13 All the people that Ishmael had taken as his prisoners saw Johanan and the officers who were with him. They were very happy to see them. 
Jeremiah41:14 All the people that Ishmael had taken away from Mizpah ran away from him. They went to join Kareah's son Johanan. 
Jeremiah41:15 But Ishmael and eight of his men escaped from Johanan. They went to live among the Ammonite people. 
Jeremiah41:16 Johanan and the army officers who were with him led the people away from Gibeon. Those were the people who were still alive in Mizpah after Ishmael had murdered Gedaliah. Now Johanan and his men had rescued them from Ishmael. Johanan brought those men, women, children, soldiers and palace officers away from Gibeon." 
Jeremiah41:17 They started on the way towards Egypt. They stopped at Geruth Kimham, a town that is near Bethlehem." 
Jeremiah41:18 They were afraid that the soldiers of Babylon would want to kill them. They would be angry because Nethaniah's son Ishmael had killed Ahikam's son Gedaliah. The king of Babylon had chosen Gedaliah to rule Judah. 
Jeremiah42:1 All the army officers went to speak to the prophet Jeremiah. They included Kareah's son Johanan and Hoshaiah's son Jezaniah. All the people went with them, important people and ordinary people." 
Jeremiah42:2 They said to Jeremiah, ‘Please listen to us. Pray to the Lord your God for those of us who remain alive. You can see that only a few of us remain from the many people that we were before." 
Jeremiah42:3 Please ask the Lord to tell us where we should go. Ask him what we should do.’ 
Jeremiah42:4 The prophet Jeremiah replied, ‘I agree to do that. I will pray to the Lord your God, as you have asked me to do. I will tell you everything that the Lord says to answer you. I will not hide anything from you.’" 
Jeremiah42:5 They said to Jeremiah, ‘We promise to do everything that the Lord sends you to say to us. We ask the Lord to listen to our promise. May he punish us if we do not do what we have promised to do." 
Jeremiah42:6 We have asked you to pray to the Lord our God for us. We will obey what he tells us to do. We will obey him whether we like what he tells us, or whether we do not like it. We will obey him because we want to enjoy a good life.’" 
Jeremiah42:7 Ten days after that, the Lord spoke to Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah42:8 So Jeremiah told Kareah's son Johanan, the other army officers and all the people to come to him. That included everyone, important people and ordinary people." 
Jeremiah42:9 Jeremiah said to them, ‘You sent me to ask the Lord, Israel's God, what you should do. He says this to you:" 
Jeremiah42:10 “You should stay here in the land of Judah. If you do that, I will build you up and make you strong again. I will not knock you down. I will help you to grow in the land, like plants with good roots. I will not pull you up. I have punished you with terrible trouble, and that makes me very sad. So now I will help you." 
Jeremiah42:11 You are afraid of the king of Babylon now, but do not be afraid of him any more. I am with you to help you. I will save you and I will rescue you from his power. I, the Lord, promise you this." 
Jeremiah42:12 I will be kind and I will help you. I will cause the king of Babylon to be kind to you. He will let you return to your own land as your home.” 
Jeremiah42:13 You must not refuse to obey this message from the Lord your God. Do not say, “We will not stay here in this land.”" 
Jeremiah42:14 Do not say, “We refuse to stay here. Instead, we will go to live in Egypt. There, we will not have trouble from wars. We will not hear the noise of trumpets as people fight battles. We will not be hungry because there is no food.”" 
Jeremiah42:15 If you say those things, then the Lord has a message for you, you people who remain in Judah. The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “If you decide to go and live in Egypt, I will cause you to have the same troubles there." 
Jeremiah42:16 You are afraid of wars here, but I will cause wars to hurt you in Egypt. You worry that you might be hungry here, but I will make you hungry in Egypt. Finally, you will die in Egypt." 
Jeremiah42:17 All the people who decide to go and live in Egypt will die there. War, famine or disease will kill everyone. Nobody will escape from the terrible trouble that I will send. Nobody will remain alive.”" 
Jeremiah42:18 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “If you go to Egypt, I will be very angry with you. I punished the people of Jerusalem because I was very angry with them. I will be as angry as that with you, if you go to Egypt. Other people will think that you are disgusting. They will insult you. They will use your name as a curse, because God has cursed you. You will never see this land of Judah again.”" 
Jeremiah42:19 Listen to me, you people who still remain in Judah. The Lord has said to you, “Do not go to Egypt.” You must understand that I am now warning you." 
Jeremiah42:20 You made a terrible mistake when you asked me to pray to the Lord your God for you. You told me, “Tell us everything that the Lord our God says, and we will do it.”" 
Jeremiah42:21 Today I have told you what he said. But you still do not want to obey the Lord. You will not do what he sent me to tell you. 
Jeremiah42:22 So now I tell you this. When you go to the place where you want to live, war, famine or disease will kill you.’" 
Jeremiah43:1 Jeremiah finished telling the people the Lord 's message to them. He told them everything that the Lord their God had sent him to tell them. 
Jeremiah43:2 Then Hoshaiah's son Azariah and Kareah's son Johanan and some other proud men said to Jeremiah, ‘You are speaking lies! The Lord our God has not sent you to say to us, “You must not go to Egypt to live there.”" 
Jeremiah43:3 You are telling us what Neriah's son Baruch wants you to say. He wants to hurt us. He wants the soldiers from Babylon to kill us or to take us as prisoners to Babylon.’ 
Jeremiah43:4 So Kareah's son Johanan, all the other army officers and all the other people did not obey the Lord 's command. They refused to stay in Judah." 
Jeremiah43:5 Instead, Johanan and all the officers led the people away. Those were the people who had returned from all the nations where their enemies had taken them as prisoners. They had returned to their homes in Judah." 
Jeremiah43:6 Now the army officers led them away. They also took the men, women and children that Captain Nebuzaradan had allowed to remain with Gedaliah. They included the king's daughters. (Gedaliah was Ahikam's son and Shaphan's grandson.) They took the prophet Jeremiah and Neriah's son Baruch with them." 
Jeremiah43:7 The people went to Egypt because they did not obey the Lord. They went as far as the city of Tahpanhes. 
Jeremiah43:8 When they arrived in Tahpanhes, the Lord spoke to Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah43:9 He said, ‘Choose some large stones and take them to Pharaoh's palace that is here in Tahpanhes. Bury the stones under the path at the entrance of the palace. Do it while the people of Judah are watching you." 
Jeremiah43:10 Then say to the people, “The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says this: I will call for my servant, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, to come here. He will put his throne on the path over these stones that I have hidden. They will put up a royal tent for him to sit under." 
Jeremiah43:11 He will come here and he will attack Egypt. Those who should become ill and die will die. Those who should go away as prisoners will go away as prisoners. Those who should die in war will die in war. 
Jeremiah43:12 He will burn the temples of Egypt's gods with fire. He will burn their gods or he will carry them away. He will take everything that he wants from Egypt. He will return home in good health. 
Jeremiah43:13 He will knock down the pillars of the temple where people worship their sun god. He will destroy all the temples of Egypt's gods.” ’ 
Jeremiah44:1 The Lord spoke to Jeremiah about the people of Judah who were now living in Egypt. They were living in Migdol, Tahpanhes, Memphis and places in the south part of Egypt." 
Jeremiah44:2 This was the Lord 's message to them: ‘The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “You saw the great trouble that I sent to the people of Jerusalem and all the towns of Judah. Their towns have become heaps of stones and nobody lives in them." 
Jeremiah44:3 That happened because of the wicked things that the people did in those places. They offered sacrifices to other gods. They worshipped gods that they never knew before. You and your ancestors did not know those gods either. That made me very angry. 
Jeremiah44:4 Many times I sent my servants the prophets to speak to them. They warned them, ‘Do not do this disgusting thing that the Lord hates!’" 
Jeremiah44:5 But the people there did not listen to my message. They refused to obey me. They did not stop doing wicked things. They did not stop offering sacrifices to other gods. 
Jeremiah44:6 So I became very angry with the people of Judah and Jerusalem. I sent them terrible trouble, like a fire that burned their towns and their streets. That is why their towns have become heaps of stones, as they still are today.” " 
Jeremiah44:7 Now the Lord God Almighty, Israel's God, says, “You are causing more trouble for yourselves. Why are you doing that? All the men, women, children and babies will disappear from Judah. None of your people will remain alive." 
Jeremiah44:8 You continue to make me angry because of the things that you are doing. You are offering sacrifices to the gods of Egypt, where you now live. As a result, you will destroy yourselves. The people of all the other nations will use your name as a curse. They will all laugh at you." 
Jeremiah44:9 Do not forget about all the wicked things that your ancestors did in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. I punished them, as well as their kings and their kings' wives. And I punished you and your wives too." 
Jeremiah44:10 Even now your people are still proud. They have not respected my authority. They have not obeyed the laws and commands that I gave to you and to your ancestors.” 
Jeremiah44:11 So the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, “Listen to me! I will certainly cause you to have great trouble. I will destroy all Judah's people." 
Jeremiah44:12 I will remove the people who remained in Judah and who decided to come here to live in Egypt. They will all die here. War or famine will kill them. All of them will die here in Egypt, important people and ordinary people. Other people will think that they are disgusting. They will insult them. They will use their name as a curse, because God has cursed them." 
Jeremiah44:13 I will punish the people who have come to live in Egypt. War, famine or disease will kill them, in the way that I punished the people of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah44:14 None of the people who remained in Judah and who came to live here in Egypt will escape. They will not remain alive to return to Judah. They may want very much to return, but only a few will be able to run away and go home.” ’" 
Jeremiah44:15 A large crowd of Judah's people listened to Jeremiah. They came from the places where they now lived in the north and the south of Egypt. Some men were there who knew that their wives were offering sacrifices to other gods. Those men and their wives said to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah44:16 ‘We do not believe that your message really comes from the Lord. 
Jeremiah44:17 So we will continue to do what we have promised to do. We will make sacrifices to the Queen of Heaven. We will pour out drink offerings to her. That is what our ancestors, our kings and our leaders did when we lived in Jerusalem and in the other towns of Judah. When we did that, we had plenty of food to eat. We enjoyed a good life and we had no troubles." 
Jeremiah44:18 But since we stopped offering sacrifices to the Queen of Heaven, we have not had those good things. War and famine have been killing our people.’" 
Jeremiah44:19 The women said, ‘It is true that we offered sacrifices and drink offerings to the Queen of Heaven. We also made cakes that were like her image. But our husbands knew what we were doing and they helped us.’" 
Jeremiah44:20 Then Jeremiah said this to all those men and women who had answered him: 
Jeremiah44:21 ‘The Lord saw everything that you were doing. You must surely realize that! He knew about the things that you, your ancestors, your kings, your leaders and all the people were doing. He remembered all the sacrifices that you offered to other gods in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah44:22 Finally, he had to punish you for the wicked and disgusting things that you were doing. Because of that, your land has become an empty place, like a desert. Its towns are heaps of stones where nobody lives. People use its name as a curse." 
Jeremiah44:23 That happened because you have offered sacrifices to other gods. You have done many sins against the Lord. You have refused to obey him. You have not obeyed his laws, his teaching or his commands. That is why all this trouble has happened to you now.’" 
Jeremiah44:24 Then Jeremiah said this to all the people, including the women: ‘Listen to the Lord 's message, all you people of Judah who are now living in Egypt." 
Jeremiah44:25 The Lord God Almighty, Israel's God, says, “You and your wives have certainly done the things that you said you would do. You said, ‘We will continue to do what we have promised to do. We will make sacrifices to the Queen of Heaven. We will pour out drink offerings to her.’ So do all those things that you promised to do!”" 
Jeremiah44:26 But listen to the Lord 's message to all you people of Judah who are living in Egypt. The Lord says, “I now promise this to you, with the authority of my own name. None of you who live in Egypt will ever use my name again when you make a promise. You will not say, ‘I promise you I will do this, as surely as the Lord God lives.’" 
Jeremiah44:27 Listen to me! I will choose to hurt you and not to help you. War or famine will kill all the people of Judah who are living in Egypt. None of them will remain alive. 
Jeremiah44:28 But a few of them will escape death and return to Judah from Egypt. They will be very few people. Then all the people of Judah who came to live in Egypt will know who speaks the truth. Do I speak the truth, or do they speak the truth? I do!”" 
Jeremiah44:29 The Lord also says, “I will show you that I will surely punish you in this place. I will tell you something that will soon happen. Then you will know that my promise to punish you will certainly become true." 
Jeremiah44:30 I tell you now that I will put Hophra, king of Egypt, under the power of his enemies, who want to kill him. That is the same thing that I did to King Zedekiah of Judah. I put him under the power of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, who wanted to kill him.” ’" 
Jeremiah45:1 Baruch wrote down on a scroll the words that Jeremiah told him to write. That happened in the fourth year that Josiah's son, Jehoiakim, ruled Judah as king. At that time, Jeremiah said to Baruch," 
Jeremiah45:2 ‘The Lord, Israel's God, says this to you, Baruch:" 
Jeremiah45:3 You said, “I have terrible trouble! I have a lot of pain, and the Lord has also made me very sad. I am so upset that I have become very weak. I cannot rest at all.” " 
Jeremiah45:4 But the Lord says this to you, Baruch: “I will soon knock down the things that I have built. I will pull out of the ground the things that I have planted. I will do that everywhere in the land." 
Jeremiah45:5 If you want to become famous and important, do not hope for that to happen. I will send great trouble to all the people on the earth. But I promise that I will keep your life safe, wherever you go.” That is what the Lord says.’" 
Jeremiah46:1 The Lord gave the prophet Jeremiah messages about the nations. 
Jeremiah46:2 This is the message about Egypt. Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and his army fought against the army of Pharaoh Necho, king of Egypt. Babylon's army won the battle against Egypt's army at Carchemish on the Euphrates River. That happened in the fourth year that Josiah's son Jehoiakim ruled Judah as king." 
Jeremiah46:3 ‘Get ready to march to the battle! Pick up your shields and your weapons. 
Jeremiah46:4 Prepare your horses and sit on them. Put on your helmets and be ready to fight. Make your spears sharp. Put on your armour!’ 
Jeremiah46:5 The Lord says, ‘But I see this: The soldiers are afraid and they are running away! They cannot win the fight. Terror is everywhere around them. They do not turn to look behind them. They run away as fast as they can." 
Jeremiah46:6 But none of them can run fast enough. Even the strongest soldiers cannot escape. In the north, beside the Euphrates River, they fall down to the ground." 
Jeremiah46:7 A nation is rising up, like the great waters of the River Nile. Who is this nation?" 
Jeremiah46:8 Egypt is rising like the waters of the Nile. Its streams of water quickly pour out over the earth. Egypt says, “I will rise up and I will cover the earth. I will destroy cities. I will kill the people who live in them.”" 
Jeremiah46:9 So ride your horses quickly into the battle! Drive your chariots as fast as they will go! Tell your soldiers to march forward into the battle. Send your soldiers of Ethiopia and Libya who carry shields. Send your soldiers of Lydia who have bows and arrows. 
Jeremiah46:10 But it is the Lord God Almighty who will win! It is the day when he will punish his enemies. His sword will completely destroy them, like a hungry person who cannot stop eating! His sword will cause a lot of blood to pour out. The Lord God Almighty will accept his enemies as a sacrifice. That is what will happen in the northern land beside the Euphrates River." 
Jeremiah46:11 Dear people of Egypt, go to Gilead and find medicine to make you well. But that will not help you. There is no medicine that will make you better." 
Jeremiah46:12 The other nations will see that you are ashamed. All over the earth, people will hear you as you weep. As your soldiers run from the battle, they will fall over each other. They will fall to the ground together.’" 
Jeremiah46:13 The Lord gave this message to the prophet Jeremiah about King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. He said that Nebuchadnezzar would come to attack Egypt. 
Jeremiah46:14 ‘Shout this message everywhere in Egypt. Let people hear it in Migdol, Memphis and in Tahpanhes. “Get ready to fight against your enemies! They are already killing the people all around you.”" 
Jeremiah46:15 Your brave soldiers will fall. They will lie flat on the ground. They cannot stand and fight because the Lord will knock them down. 
Jeremiah46:16 They will continue to fall over each other. They will say to each other, “Get up! We must return to our homes where our own people live. We must escape from our enemies, who want to kill us.”" 
Jeremiah46:17 When they get back home, they will say, “The king of Egypt is only a loud noise. He could not win when he had the chance.” ’" 
Jeremiah46:18 The Lord Almighty is the great King. He says, ‘I promise you, as surely as I live, that a powerful army will come to fight against you! They will look as great as Tabor looks among the other mountains. They will seem like Mount Carmel that stands beside the sea." 
Jeremiah46:19 You dear people of Egypt, be ready to travel as prisoners to a foreign land! Your enemy will destroy Memphis city. It will become a heap of stones where nobody lives." 
Jeremiah46:20 Egypt is like a beautiful young cow. But an army from the north will attack her, like a crowd of flies that bite." 
Jeremiah46:21 Egypt has paid soldiers from other countries to help her. But they are like fat calves that are too weak to fight. They will not stand and fight, but they will turn and run away. Yes, the day of Egypt's punishment has arrived! Their enemy has come to destroy them." 
Jeremiah46:22 Egypt's people will run away, like a snake along the ground. The enemy's strong army will march forward. They will attack Egypt with axes, like men who cut down trees." 
Jeremiah46:23 Egypt's soldiers are as many as the trees in a great forest. But the enemy's soldiers will cut them down. Their army is like a hungry crowd of locusts. They are too many to count. 
Jeremiah46:24 The people of Egypt will be ashamed. They will be under the power of the people from the north.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah46:25 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, also says, ‘Now I will punish Amon, the god of Thebes city, and the other gods of Egypt. I will also punish Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and Egypt's other rulers. I will punish Egypt's people and everyone who trusts in Pharaoh's power." 
Jeremiah46:26 I will put them under the power of King Nebuchadnezzar and his army, who want to kill them. But in later years, people will again live in Egypt, as they did before.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah46:27 ‘My servants, descendants of Jacob, do not be afraid. People of Israel, do not be upset. You have been prisoners in countries far away. But I will rescue you and your descendants. You will return to your own land and you will live in peace. Jacob's descendants will be safe and nobody will make them afraid." 
Jeremiah46:28 So do not be afraid, descendants of my servant Jacob. I am with you to help you. I may completely destroy all the nations where I send you to live. But I will never completely destroy you. I will certainly punish you, to teach you what is right. But I will do that in a fair way.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah47:1 The Lord gave this message to the prophet Jeremiah before Pharaoh and the army of Egypt attacked Gaza. The Lord said this about the Philistines: 
Jeremiah47:2 ‘Look at what is happening! Armies in the north are rising like a flood of water. They will pour out from there like a great river. They will cover the whole land and everything in it. They will destroy the cities and the people who live in them. People will shout for help. Everyone who lives there will cry with pain. 
Jeremiah47:3 They will hear the sound of their enemies' horses and the loud noises of their chariots. Fathers will not turn back to save their children, because fear has made them weak." 
Jeremiah47:4 The time has come when the Lord will destroy all the Philistines. None of them will remain to give help to Tyre and Sidon. The Lord is ready to destroy the Philistines who remain. Those are the people who came from the island of Crete. 
Jeremiah47:5 The people of Gaza will cut the hair off their heads because they are so upset. In Ashkelon, nobody will say a word. You Philistines who live near the sea and are still alive, will you continue to cut your bodies?" 
Jeremiah47:6 You shout to the Lord, “How long will you attack us with your sword? Please stop killing us! Put your sword away!”" 
Jeremiah47:7 But the Lord has commanded his sword to kill. So it cannot rest! The Lord has commanded his sword to attack Ashkelon and the people who live on the coast of the sea.’ 
Jeremiah48:1 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, spoke this message about Moab: ‘Nebo city is in terrible trouble! It will soon become a heap of stones. The people of Kiriathaim city will be ashamed. Its enemies will take it for themselves. They will knock down its strong buildings, and its people will be ashamed." 
Jeremiah48:2 People will no longer praise Moab. In Heshbon, Moab's enemies will decide how to destroy the nation. They will say, “We must completely destroy Moab!” The town of Madmen will become silent, as a great army chases out the people." 
Jeremiah48:3 The people of Horonaim will shout for help, because a strong army is destroying them." 
Jeremiah48:4 Moab will come to an end! Its children will cry loudly. 
Jeremiah48:5 They will go up the hill to Luhith. They will weep as they go. As they go down the road towards Horonaim, they will cry about their town that the enemy is destroying." 
Jeremiah48:6 People say, “Run away to save your lives! Go and live in the desert.”" 
Jeremiah48:7 People of Moab, you trusted your riches and your skills to save you. Because of that, your enemies will catch you. They will even take your god Chemosh away as prisoner, together with his priests and officers." 
Jeremiah48:8 Your cruel enemy will attack every town. No town or city will escape. The enemy will destroy every place in the valley, and every place on the high ground. They will become heaps of stones. I, the Lord, tell you this!" 
Jeremiah48:9 Dig a grave to bury Moab! Its land will become like a desert. Its cities will become heaps of stones. Nobody will live in them.’ 
Jeremiah48:10 The Lord will curse anyone who refuses to do his work! He will punish anyone who does not use his sword to kill his enemies! 
Jeremiah48:11 The Lord said, ‘Moab's people have lived in peace since they first became a nation. No enemy has taken them away to a foreign land as their prisoners. They have been like the wine in a bottle that nobody has moved. Nobody has poured it into another bottle, so its taste and smell have never changed. Moab has always been the same." 
Jeremiah48:12 But the time will soon come when I will send people to attack Moab. They will pour out Moab's people like somebody pours wine out of a bottle. They will pour out all the wine so that the bottles are empty. And they will break the bottles into pieces! 
Jeremiah48:13 Then Moab's people will be ashamed because their god Chemosh has not saved them. They will be like the Israelites who trusted in their idol at Bethel and they became ashamed. 
Jeremiah48:14 Men of Moab, you should no longer say, “We are brave soldiers who know how to fight.”" 
Jeremiah48:15 I am the King, the Lord Almighty, and I tell you this: The enemy will soon destroy Moab and its cities. They will kill its strongest young men." 
Jeremiah48:16 Moab will soon come to an end. Terrible trouble will quickly destroy it. 
Jeremiah48:17 You nations that live around Moab, you know how famous it has been. But now you must weep for it. Say, “Moab's royal power is finished! They no longer have great power to rule!”" 
Jeremiah48:18 You people who live in Dibon must stop being proud. Come down from the places where people give you honour. Sit on the ground in the dirt. Moab's cruel enemy has arrived. They will cause your strong buildings to become heaps of stones. 
Jeremiah48:19 You people who live in Aroer, stand beside the road and watch. Ask the people who are running away what has happened." 
Jeremiah48:20 They will reply, “The enemy has won against Moab and its people are ashamed. So weep and cry out! Stand beside the Arnon River and tell the news. Tell people that the enemy has destroyed Moab.”" 
Jeremiah48:21 The Lord has judged the cities on the high ground and he will soon punish them: Holon, Jahzah and Mephaath," 
Jeremiah48:22 Dibon, Nebo and Beth-Diblathaim," 
Jeremiah48:23 Kiriathaim, Beth-Gamul and Beth-Meon," 
Jeremiah48:24 Kerioth and Bozrah. He will punish all the towns of Moab, near or far away." 
Jeremiah48:25 Moab has lost its power. Its strength has finished.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah48:26 ‘Moab has turned against me. So my anger will make him like a person who is drunk. He will lie down in the place where he has been sick. People will laugh at him. 
Jeremiah48:27 You people of Moab laughed at my people, the Israelites. Why did you insult them? You said that they were no better than a group of robbers." 
Jeremiah48:28 Now you must all leave your towns. Go and live among the rocks. Live like doves that make their nests high up among the rocks. 
Jeremiah48:29 We have heard that Moab's people are very proud. They think that they are better than everyone else. We know how much they boast.’ 
Jeremiah48:30 The Lord says, ‘I know about Moab's proud thoughts. But their pride is false. Whatever they do, it will be useless." 
Jeremiah48:31 So I am sad for Moab. I am crying for all their people. I weep for the people of Kir-Heres. 
Jeremiah48:32 I weep for the vines of Sibmah, more than Jazer weeps. The branches of those vines reached across the sea as far as Jazer. But the cruel enemy will destroy all the fruit that grows on your vines and trees." 
Jeremiah48:33 People will no longer be happy in the land where this fruit grows. I will stop them making wine from their grapes. They will not stamp on their grapes and shout with joy. Instead, the shouts will be shouts about trouble." 
Jeremiah48:34 In Heshbon and Elealeh people cry out because of their pain. The noise reaches as far as Jahaz. It reaches from Zoar to Horonaim and Eglath-Shelishiyah. Even the Nimrim River has become dry.’ 
Jeremiah48:35 The Lord says this: ‘I will remove the people of Moab who worship other gods. They offer sacrifices to them and they burn incense at their altars. 
Jeremiah48:36 So I am very sad for the people of Moab. I weep like a flute that plays a funeral song. I am sad for the people of Kir-Heres, because all their riches will disappear." 
Jeremiah48:37 All the men will be very upset. They will cut the hair off their heads and their faces. They will use knives to cut their hands. They will wear sackcloth as their clothes. 
Jeremiah48:38 People are standing on the roofs of their houses. They are standing in the streets. They are all crying and weeping. They are sad because I have destroyed Moab. I have broken it in pieces, like a jar that I no longer want.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah48:39 ‘Yes, Moab will be like a broken jar. Its people will weep with loud voices. They will turn away because they are ashamed. All the nations around there will laugh at Moab. They will see the terrible trouble that it has received.’" 
Jeremiah48:40 The Lord says, ‘Look at the enemy that suddenly arrives! It comes like an eagle that flies down to catch its food." 
Jeremiah48:41 The enemy will take Moab's towns and its strong buildings. Moab's soldiers will be afraid, like a woman who will soon give birth." 
Jeremiah48:42 Moab has been proud and it has turned against the Lord. So they will no longer be a nation.’ 
Jeremiah48:43 The Lord says this: ‘People of Moab, there will be danger, deep holes and traps that are ready to catch you!" 
Jeremiah48:44 Anyone who runs away from danger will fall into a deep hole. And a trap will catch anyone who climbs out of the deep hole. Yes, the time will soon come when I will punish Moab's people." 
Jeremiah48:45 People will run away to Heshbon to be safe. They will be helpless as they stand outside its walls. Flames of fire will come out from Heshbon, the city where King Sihon once ruled. It will burn as far as Moab's borders. It will destroy those proud people who love to fight." 
Jeremiah48:46 It will be very bad for you, you people of Moab! The enemy will destroy you people who worship Chemosh. They will take away your sons and your daughters. They will take them as prisoners to a foreign land." 
Jeremiah48:47 But one day I will cause Moab to be strong again.’ That is what the Lord says. That is the end of the Lord 's message against Moab. 
Jeremiah49:1 The Lord gave this message about the people of Ammon: ‘There are plenty of Israel's descendants who are still alive. They are strong enough to live in the land that is their home. So why have people who worship the god Molech moved in to the land of Gad's tribe? They should not be living in towns that belong to Gad's people.’ 
Jeremiah49:2 The Lord says, ‘A time will come when an army attacks Rabbah, Ammon's capital city. Its people will hear the noise of a battle. The city will become a big heap of stones. Fire will destroy the villages around it. Then the Israelites will chase out the people who had taken their land from them.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah49:3 ‘You people in Heshbon, cry aloud, because the enemy has destroyed Ai. Weep, you people who live in Rabbah. Dress yourselves in sackcloth, because you are so sad. Run around inside the city. The enemy will take away your idol of Molech. They will take Molech's priests and their officers to a foreign land." 
Jeremiah49:4 You people of Ammon boast about your power. But that will soon come to an end! You have not been faithful. You have trusted in your riches and you say, “Nobody will be able to attack us!” ’" 
Jeremiah49:5 But the Lord God Almighty says, ‘I will bring terror all around you. Your enemy will chase you away in all directions. Nobody will be able to bring you together again." 
Jeremiah49:6 But in future days, I will make Ammon's people strong again.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah49:7 The Lord Almighty gave this message about Edom: ‘It seems that wisdom has disappeared from Teman. Edom's clever men have no good advice. Their great ideas have gone away. 
Jeremiah49:8 You people who live in Dedan, run away and escape! Go and find somewhere safe to hide! The time has come for me to punish Esau's descendants. I will cause them to have terrible trouble." 
Jeremiah49:9 If people came to pick your grapes, they would leave a few grapes on the vines. If robbers came at night to take your things, they would only take the things that they needed." 
Jeremiah49:10 But I will take everything from Esau's descendants, so that they have nothing. I will open their secret places, so that they have nowhere to hide. The enemy will destroy them and their children, family and friends. None of them will remain alive." 
Jeremiah49:11 But I will take care of your widows and the children who have no family. You can trust me to keep them safe.’ 
Jeremiah49:12 The Lord says, ‘I had to punish even those people who did not deserve my great punishment. So you will certainly not escape my punishment! You will have to drink my anger from the cup that I give to you." 
Jeremiah49:13 I, the Lord, promise you this, with the authority of my own name: Bozrah city will become a heap of stones. The people of other nations will think that it is disgusting. They will laugh at it. They will use its name as a curse. All the towns and villages around it will be heaps of stones for ever.’" 
Jeremiah49:14 I have heard a message from the Lord. He has sent someone with this message to the nations: ‘Prepare your armies to attack Edom. Prepare to fight a battle against Edom!’ 
Jeremiah49:15 The Lord says to Edom's people, ‘I will make you a weak nation that nobody respects." 
Jeremiah49:16 You are proud people. You boast that you cause other people to be afraid of you. But your thoughts have deceived you. You live high up among the rocks, and on the tops of mountains. But I will bring you down from there, even if you are as high as an eagle's nest.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah49:17 ‘People will see how disgusting Edom is. Everybody who goes there will be very surprised. They will see all the terrible trouble that has happened to the nation, and they will insult it." 
Jeremiah49:18 Edom will become a heap of stones where nobody lives. The same thing happened to Sodom and Gomorrah, and the towns that were near them. Edom will be as empty as a desert.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah49:19 ‘I will attack the people of Edom and I will chase them out of their land. I will be like a lion that has been hiding in the forest. It attacks the sheep in the fields beside the Jordan River. Like that lion, I will suddenly chase Edom's people out of their country. Then I will choose a leader to rule that nation. There is nobody who is like me. Nobody can accuse me of anything. No ruler can stand against me." 
Jeremiah49:20 So listen to me, the Lord! This is what I have decided to do to Edom. Yes, this is the trouble that I will bring to the people who live in Teman. Soldiers will catch their children and take them away, like little lambs that they take from their mothers. I will completely destroy their homes." 
Jeremiah49:21 When Edom's people fall, the noise will cause the whole earth to shake. The sound of their sad voices will reach as far as the Red Sea." 
Jeremiah49:22 A nation will rise up high, like an eagle in the sky. It will fly down to catch its food in Bozrah! When the brave soldiers of Edom see that, they will become very afraid. They will be afraid, like a woman who will soon give birth.’" 
Jeremiah49:23 The Lord gave this message about Damascus: ‘The people of Hamath and Arpad will hear bad news. It will cause them to be upset. They will no longer feel brave. They will not be able to rest because they are afraid. 
Jeremiah49:24 The people of Damascus will become weak. They will try to run away. They will become confused because of their fear. They will feel pain like a woman who is giving birth. 
Jeremiah49:25 Damascus was a famous city. The people who lived in it were very happy. But now it will become empty. 
Jeremiah49:26 Its young men will die in its streets. All its soldiers will be dead. 
Jeremiah49:27 I will burn down the city walls of Damascus. Fire will destroy the palaces of King Ben-Hadad.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Jeremiah49:28 The Lord gave this message about Kedar and the kingdoms of Hazor that King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon attacked: ‘March to Kedar and attack the city! Destroy those people who live east of Judah. 
Jeremiah49:29 Take away their tents and their sheep. Take their curtains and the other things in their tents. Carry those things away with their camels. Cause the people to shout, “ Terror is everywhere around us!” ’" 
Jeremiah49:30 The Lord says, ‘You people who live in Hazor, run away quickly! Go and find somewhere safe to hide! King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon has decided to attack you. He knows how he will destroy you.’" 
Jeremiah49:31 The Lord says to King Nebuchadnezzar, ‘Go and attack that nation. They think that they are strong and safe. But their city has no gates or walls to protect them. They live far away from other people." 
Jeremiah49:32 Take their camels and their farm animals for yourselves. I will chase away those people who live in the desert and who cut their hair short. I will send them away in every direction. I will bring terrible trouble from every direction to hurt them. 
Jeremiah49:33 Hazor will become as empty as a desert. Only wild animals will live there. It will always be a place where no people live.’ 
Jeremiah49:34 Soon after Zedekiah became king of Judah, the Lord gave this message about Elam to the prophet Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah49:35 The Lord Almighty said, ‘Listen to me! Elam's army makes them a strong nation. They have soldiers who can shoot arrows well. But I will destroy those soldiers." 
Jeremiah49:36 I will cause enemies to attack Elam, like winds that blow from every direction. I will chase Elam's people away in every direction. They will run away to live in every other nation of the world." 
Jeremiah49:37 I will make them very afraid of their enemies who want to kill them. I will cause them to have terrible trouble, because I am very angry with them.’ That is what the Lord says. ‘I will send soldiers to attack them, until I have completely destroyed them." 
Jeremiah49:38 I will destroy their kings and their leaders. I will be the king who rules over Elam.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah49:39 ‘But at a future time, I will make Elam strong again.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah50:1 The Lord gave this message to the prophet Jeremiah about Babylon city and the people of Babylonia: 
Jeremiah50:2 ‘Tell this news to the nations! Wave a flag to make sure that people listen! Do not try to hide anything. Say this: “Enemies will take Babylon. Bel will become ashamed. Yes, Marduk will be afraid. All Babylon's disgusting idols will be ashamed.” " 
Jeremiah50:3 A nation from the north will attack Babylon. They will destroy the whole land. People and animals will all run away, so that nobody lives there.’" 
Jeremiah50:4 The Lord says, ‘When that happens, the people of Israel and Judah will return to their land. They will weep because of their sins. They will want to worship the Lord their God." 
Jeremiah50:5 They will ask people to show them the way to Zion. They will travel in that direction. They will promise to serve the Lord. They will make a covenant with him that will continue for ever. Nobody will ever forget that covenant. 
Jeremiah50:6 My people have been like sheep that are lost. Their leaders should have taken care of them like shepherds. Instead, they have let my people become lost, like sheep that have gone into the mountains. They go from one hill to another hill, and they have forgotten where their home is." 
Jeremiah50:7 Anyone who found them killed them. Their enemies said, “We are not guilty for their death. They deserved to die because they turned against the Lord. He is their true home where they are safe. But they turned against the Lord, the God that their ancestors trusted.” " 
Jeremiah50:8 People of Judah, escape quickly from Babylon! Leave the land of Babylonia! Be the first people to leave. Lead the other people away, like a male goat that leads the other goats." 
Jeremiah50:9 I will call a group of strong nations from the north. They will join together to fight against Babylon. They will prepare to attack. They will come from the north and they will take power over Babylon. Their arrows will be like brave soldiers. They will kill everyone that they want to kill. 
Jeremiah50:10 The people of Babylonia will lose all their things. Enemy soldiers will take everything that they want for themselves.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah50:11 ‘You people of Babylon are very happy, because you have robbed my people. You dance like young cows that have fresh grass to eat. You make a happy noise, like a strong male horse." 
Jeremiah50:12 Babylon is like your mother who gave you life, but she will become ashamed. Yes, she will become the least important of all nations. The country will be dry and empty, like a desert." 
Jeremiah50:13 Nobody will live in Babylon, because I, the Lord, am very angry with it. It will be only a heap of stones. Everyone who goes that way will see that it is a disgusting place. They will insult Babylon, because of the terrible troubles that have happened to it." 
Jeremiah50:14 Get ready to fight, all you soldiers who have bows and arrows. Stand in your places around Babylon. Shoot your arrows into the city! Shoot all of them! Punish Babylon, because its people have turned against the Lord." 
Jeremiah50:15 Shout as you attack the city from all sides. Its people are ready to stop fighting. Its strong towers will fall down. You will knock down its walls. The Lord is punishing Babylon, so punish the people for their sins! Do the same thing to them that they have done to other people." 
Jeremiah50:16 Remove from Babylon all the farmers who plant crops. Remove all the people who cut the crops at harvest time. The foreigners must return to their own homes. They must run away to escape from the enemy army. 
Jeremiah50:17 Israel's enemies have chased them away to many different places. They are like sheep that hungry lions have chased away. The first to catch them was the king of Assyria. Then King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon destroyed them, like a lion that broke their bones.’" 
Jeremiah50:18 So the Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says this: ‘I will punish the king of Babylon and his country, as I punished the king of Assyria." 
Jeremiah50:19 But I will bring Israel's people back to their own land. They will grow their crops on Carmel and in Bashan. They will have plenty of food to eat on the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead. 
Jeremiah50:20 At that time, I will forgive the sins of my people. I have let a few people of Israel and Judah remain. And they will no longer be guilty of any sins.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah50:21 The Lord says, ‘Attack the land of Merathaim. Attack the people who live in Pekod. Run after them! Kill them! Completely destroy them! Do everything that I have commanded you to do." 
Jeremiah50:22 There is a noise of war in the land of Babylonia. The enemy is destroying everything! 
Jeremiah50:23 Babylon attacked other nations of the world, like a hammer that breaks things into pieces. But now that hammer has broken into pieces. Now the other nations see that Babylon is a disgusting place." 
Jeremiah50:24 Babylon, I put a trap to catch you, and you did not know about it. Now I have caught you in my trap, because you fought against me." 
Jeremiah50:25 I have taken out my weapons from the place where I had stored them. I will use those weapons to punish the people of Babylonia, because I am very angry with them. I am the Lord God Almighty. I have work to do in the land of Babylonia." 
Jeremiah50:26 Now come from far away to attack Babylonia! Break open the store rooms and take out the grain. Knock down their buildings and break them into pieces. Completely destroy everything. Do not let anything remain! 
Jeremiah50:27 Kill all their strong soldiers. Let them go to their place of death! Terrible trouble has come to the people of Babylon. The time of their punishment has arrived!’ 
Jeremiah50:28 Listen! People have run away from the war in Babylon. Now they are arriving in Jerusalem. They will tell the news in Zion about how the Lord is punishing Babylon. He is punishing the people of Babylon because they destroyed his temple. 
Jeremiah50:29 ‘Bring all the soldiers with bows and arrows to attack Babylon. They must make their camp all around the city. Do not let anyone escape. Punish the people for the things that they have done. Do the same thing to them that they have done to others. Those people have insulted me, Israel's Holy God." 
Jeremiah50:30 So Babylon's young men will die in its streets. All its soldiers will die in battle on that day.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah50:31 The Lord God Almighty says this: ‘You people of Babylon are very proud, so I will fight against you. Now the day has come when I will punish you for your sins." 
Jeremiah50:32 You are proud but you will fall to the ground. Nobody will help you to get up. I will burn Babylonia's towns with fire, and it will destroy everything that is around them.’" 
Jeremiah50:33 The Lord Almighty says, ‘People have been cruel to the people of Israel and Judah. Enemies have taken them away as prisoners. They have refused to let my people go free." 
Jeremiah50:34 But my name is the Lord Almighty. I am strong and I will rescue my people. I will fight hard to save them. I will bring peace to their land. But the people of Babylonia will only have trouble.’ 
Jeremiah50:35 The Lord says, ‘I am sending an army to fight against Babylon. They will attack the people of Babylonia, its leaders and its wise men." 
Jeremiah50:36 They will attack its false prophets, and people will see that the prophets are fools. They will attack the soldiers of Babylonia, and those soldiers will be very afraid." 
Jeremiah50:37 They will attack Babylonia's horses and chariots, and the foreign soldiers who belong to its army. They will become as weak as women. The enemy soldiers will take Babylon's valuable things. They will take them away for themselves." 
Jeremiah50:38 There will be no rain on the land so that the rivers and streams become dry. I will send all this trouble because their whole land is full of idols. The people become crazy because they are afraid of their idols. 
Jeremiah50:39 Hyenas and other wild animals will live there. Ostriches will live there, too. But people will never live there again. It will remain as empty as a desert." 
Jeremiah50:40 Babylonia will become a heap of stones where nobody lives. The same thing happened to Sodom and Gomorrah and the towns near to them. Nobody will live there any more.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah50:41 ‘Look! An army is coming from the north. A great nation and many kings are preparing to attack. They are coming from a place that is far away. 
Jeremiah50:42 Its soldiers carry bows and spears as their weapons. They are always cruel and they are never kind. They ride into the battle on their horses, and it sounds like the noise of the sea. They are ready to attack you, people of Babylon!" 
Jeremiah50:43 The king of Babylon has heard news about them, and he is very afraid. He feels too weak to fight. He feels pain like a woman who is giving birth." 
Jeremiah50:44 I will attack the people of Babylonia, and I will chase them out of their land. I will do that like a lion that has been hiding in the forest. It attacks the sheep in the fields beside the Jordan River. Like that lion, I will suddenly chase Babylonia's people out of their country. Then I will choose a leader to rule that nation. There is nobody who is like me. Nobody can accuse me of anything. No ruler can stand against me." 
Jeremiah50:45 So listen to me, the Lord! This is what I have decided to do to Babylon. Yes, this is the trouble that I will bring to the people of Babylonia. Soldiers will catch their children and take them away, like little lambs that they take from their mothers. I will completely destroy their homes." 
Jeremiah50:46 When the enemy takes power over Babylon, the noise will cause the whole earth to shake. The other nations will hear Babylon's people shout with pain.’" 
Jeremiah51:1 The Lord says this: ‘I will send an enemy to destroy Babylon and the people of Babylonia. It will come like a strong wind that blows them away. 
Jeremiah51:2 I will send foreign soldiers to remove them from their land, like a wind that blows chaff away. They will make the land become empty. On the day of that great trouble, they will attack Babylonia from all directions." 
Jeremiah51:3 Do not give Babylon's soldiers time to pick up their weapons! Do not give them time to put on their armour! Kill all their young men. Completely destroy their whole army. 
Jeremiah51:4 Their dead bodies will lie on the ground all over Babylonia and in the streets of the city. 
Jeremiah51:5 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, will not leave Israel and Judah on their own. Those people are guilty of many bad things that they have done against Israel's Holy God." 
Jeremiah51:6 Run away from Babylonia! Run quickly to escape from there! Do not stay there to die along with Babylonia's people. The time has come for the Lord to pay them back for their sins. He will punish them as they deserve. 
Jeremiah51:7 Babylon has been like a gold cup of wine in the Lord 's hand. The nations of the world had to drink that wine. It made everyone become drunk, and so they all became crazy." 
Jeremiah51:8 But now Babylon will quickly fall. An enemy will destroy it, so weep for it! Find some medicine that will make its wounds better. Perhaps it will become well again." 
Jeremiah51:9 The foreign people in Babylon say, “We tried to make its wounds better, but it was not possible to do it. Now we must leave it. We must each go back to our own country. Its punishment will have no end. It will reach as high as the sky!”" 
Jeremiah51:10 The people from Judah who are in Babylon say, “The Lord has shown that we are his people. Now we must go to Jerusalem. We must tell people in Zion about how the Lord our God has helped us.” " 
Jeremiah51:11 Make your arrows sharp! Prepare your weapons! The Lord has caused Media's kings to prepare for war. He will use them to destroy Babylon. The Lord will punish the people of Babylonia because they destroyed his temple. 
Jeremiah51:12 Wave a flag and prepare to attack Babylon's city walls! Bring plenty of guards to watch all around the city. Put soldiers to catch anyone who tries to escape. Yes, the Lord will now do everything that he has decided. He will punish Babylon's people, as he said he would do." 
Jeremiah51:13 You people of Babylon, who live beside many rivers, it is now time for you to die. You have become rich with many valuable things, but now your lives will finish.’" 
Jeremiah51:14 The Lord Almighty has made this strong promise with the authority of his own name: ‘I will cause the enemy's soldiers to fill your cities. They will come like a big crowd of locusts. They will shout loudly when they take your city for themselves.’ 
Jeremiah51:15 The Lord used his power to make the earth. He used his wisdom to make it strong. He knew how to put the sky to cover the earth. 
Jeremiah51:16 When he shouts like thunder, the water in the sky roars. He brings the clouds from the far places of the earth. He causes bright lightning to show in the storms. He opens his rooms so that the wind comes out and it blows everywhere." 
Jeremiah51:17 People who worship idols are stupid. They do not understand what they are doing. The men who make idols will be ashamed. They make images of gods that are false. None of their idols have the breath of life in them. 
Jeremiah51:18 They are useless things that people should laugh at. When the time for their punishment arrives, God will destroy them." 
Jeremiah51:19 The God that Jacob's descendants worship is not like those idols. He created everything. He chose Israel's people to belong to him. His name is the Lord Almighty. 
Jeremiah51:20 ‘You are the weapon that I use to fight my battles. I have used you to punish nations. I have used you to destroy kingdoms. 
Jeremiah51:21 I have used you to destroy whole armies, with their horses, chariots and riders." 
Jeremiah51:22 I have used you to destroy men and women, old men, young men, boys and girls." 
Jeremiah51:23 I have used you to destroy shepherds and their sheep, as well as farmers and their oxen. I have used you to destroy rulers and their officers." 
Jeremiah51:24 But now I will punish Babylon and all the people who live in Babylonia. I will pay them back for all the evil things that they did in Jerusalem. And you will see me do that.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah51:25 The Lord says, ‘Listen to me, Babylon! I am your enemy! You are like a strong mountain that destroys the whole earth. I will punish you with all my strength. I will push you down from your high place. I will make you a heap of ashes." 
Jeremiah51:26 Nobody will be able to use any of your stones as a foundation for a new building. You will remain as empty as a desert for ever.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah51:27 ‘Call the nations to come and fight a battle against Babylonia. Wave a flag and make a noise with trumpets, so that these kingdoms prepare their armies to attack: Ararat, Minni and Ashkenaz. Choose a captain to lead them into battle. Send an army of soldiers on horses to attack, like a large crowd of locusts." 
Jeremiah51:28 Tell the nations to prepare their armies for war against Babylonia. Tell the kings of Media to get ready, as well as their leaders and officers. The armies of the countries that they rule must also be ready to fight." 
Jeremiah51:29 The whole earth will shake with pain as the Lord punishes Babylonia. He will certainly do what he has decided to do. He will make the land of Babylonia as empty as a desert. Nobody will live there. 
Jeremiah51:30 The brave soldiers of Babylonia are no longer fighting! They remain inside their strong buildings. Their strength has gone! They are as weak as women. In their cities, enemy soldiers are burning their houses. They have broken down the city gates." 
Jeremiah51:31 Now people run to send the news to the king of Babylon. They pass this message along the line: “The enemy has taken power over the whole city! 
Jeremiah51:32 They have guards to stop people escaping across the rivers. They have burned the reeds in the wet fields. All our soldiers are afraid.” 
Jeremiah51:33 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says this: Babylon is like a threshing floor that is ready for people to stamp on wheat. The harvest time will soon come! Then the enemy will cut down Babylon, and they will stamp all over it!’" 
Jeremiah51:34 ‘King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon has destroyed us with his army. He has made us weak and confused. He has eaten us like a hungry monster. He has filled himself with all our good things. Then he spat us out of his mouth.’ 
Jeremiah51:35 Zion's people then say to the Lord, ‘Please punish the people of Babylonia, because they did cruel things to us.’ Jerusalem's people say, ‘Pay back the people of Babylonia, because they killed our relatives.’" 
Jeremiah51:36 So the Lord says, ‘I will help you to win. I will punish the people of Babylonia for what they have done to you. I will cause all their rivers and their springs to become dry." 
Jeremiah51:37 Babylon will become a heap of stones. Wild animals will live there. People will see that it is a disgusting place, and they will laugh at it. Nobody will live there." 
Jeremiah51:38 Its people shout loudly, like lions that roar. They make a noise like baby lions that are hungry." 
Jeremiah51:39 While they are feeling so hungry, I will prepare a feast for them. I will cause them to become drunk, and they will become helpless. They will sleep for ever and they will never wake up again.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Jeremiah51:40 ‘I will take them down to the place of death. People will kill them as if they are lambs, sheep and goats." 
Jeremiah51:41 Now an enemy will take power over Babylon! Everyone in the world praised it as a great nation. But now all the nations will see that it is a disgusting place. 
Jeremiah51:42 The sea will pour over it. Many waves of water will cover it. 
Jeremiah51:43 Babylonia's towns will become heaps of stones. The land will be dry and empty, like a desert. Nobody will live there any more. Nobody will even travel through the land." 
Jeremiah51:44 I will punish Bel, the god of Babylon. I will cause him to give back everything that he has taken. Nations will never go to worship him again. Yes, the walls of Babylon will fall down!" 
Jeremiah51:45 Escape from Babylon, my people! Run away to save your lives! The Lord is very angry with that place, so run away from there!" 
Jeremiah51:46 You must be brave! When you hear news in Babylon of what is happening, do not be afraid. People will report one thing this year, and next year they will report a different thing. They will speak about violence in the land, and about rulers who are fighting against each other." 
Jeremiah51:47 So the time will soon come when I will punish Babylon's idols. The whole country will become ashamed. Its people will die and their dead bodies will lie everywhere. 
Jeremiah51:48 Then everyone in heaven and everyone on the earth will shout with joy because of what happens to Babylon. They will be happy because an army will come from the north to destroy it.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah51:49 ‘Babylon's people have caused the death of people everywhere. They have killed many Israelites. So now Babylon must lose its power. 
Jeremiah51:50 You Israelites who are still alive, leave Babylon now! Do not wait! You are far away from your homes. But remember that the Lord is with you. Think about Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah51:51 You say, “We are ashamed. People have insulted us. We hide our faces in shame because foreigners have gone into the holy places of the Lord 's temple.” ’" 
Jeremiah51:52 But the Lord says this: ‘The time will soon come when I will punish Babylon's idols. People everywhere in that land will cry with pain, because their wounds are causing them to die." 
Jeremiah51:53 Babylon's people may build their city very high. They may make its walls very strong. But I will send an army to destroy it.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Jeremiah51:54 ‘Listen to the noise that comes from Babylon! People are crying in pain. Listen to the noise of the enemy army as it destroys Babylonia. 
Jeremiah51:55 The Lord is preparing to destroy Babylon. No noise will come from there any more. The enemy soldiers will attack like great waves of water. There will be a loud noise of battle. 
Jeremiah51:56 An army is coming to destroy Babylon. They will take hold of its brave soldiers. They will break their weapons. The Lord is a God who punishes people as they deserve. He always pays them back for their sins. 
Jeremiah51:57 I will make Babylon's officers and its wise men drunk, as well as its rulers, its leaders and its soldiers. They will sleep for ever and they will never wake up again.’ That is what the King says. His name is the Lord Almighty." 
Jeremiah51:58 The Lord Almighty says this: ‘The enemy will completely knock down the strong walls of Babylon. They will burn its high gates with fire. The nations work very hard, but their work is useless. They make themselves tired, but fire destroys all their work.’" 
Jeremiah51:59 This is the command that the prophet Jeremiah gave to the king's officer Seraiah. Seraiah was the son of Neriah and the grandson of Mahseiah. He took the message when he went to Babylon with King Zedekiah of Judah. That happened in the fourth year that Zedekiah had ruled Judah as king. 
Jeremiah51:60 Jeremiah had written on a scroll a list of all the terrible troubles that would happen to Babylon. Those were all the messages that he had written about Babylon. 
Jeremiah51:61 Jeremiah said to Seraiah, ‘When you arrive in Babylon, you must read aloud all these messages." 
Jeremiah51:62 Then say, “ Lord, you have said that you will destroy this place. Then no people or animals will live in it any longer. It will be empty for ever.”" 
Jeremiah51:63 When you have finished reading aloud all the words on the scroll, tie a big stone to it. Throw it all into the middle of the Euphrates River." 
Jeremiah51:64 Then say, “That is how Babylon will sink! It will go down and it will never rise up again. The Lord is ready to cause all these terrible troubles to happen to Babylon. Its people will be too weak to stop it.” ’ That is the end of Jeremiah's messages." 
Jeremiah52:1 Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah, who came from Libnah." 
Jeremiah52:2 Zedekiah did things that the Lord said were evil, as Jehoiakim had done." 
Jeremiah52:3 All this trouble happened to Jerusalem and to Judah because the Lord was very angry with them. In the end, the Lord sent them away from himself. This is what happened when King Zedekiah turned against the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah52:4 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, marched with his army to attack Jerusalem. He arrived on the tenth day of the tenth month, in the ninth year when Zedekiah had ruled Judah. His soldiers made their camp all around the city. They built heaps of earth all around Jerusalem's walls." 
Jeremiah52:5 Babylon's army stayed around the city until the 11th year that Zedekiah had been king. 
Jeremiah52:6 By the ninth day of the fourth month there was a very bad famine in the city. There was no food for the people to eat. 
Jeremiah52:7 Then Babylon's army broke down Jerusalem's wall so that they could go into the city. Their soldiers were all around the city. So the king of Judah and all his army tried to escape in the night. They went through the gate that was near the king's garden. The path went between the two walls of the city. They ran towards the Jordan Valley. 
Jeremiah52:8 But the soldiers of Babylon's army chased after King Zedekiah. They caught him on the flat land near Jericho. All King Zedekiah's soldiers ran away from him in many directions. 
Jeremiah52:9 Babylon's soldiers took hold of Zedekiah. They took him to King Nebuchadnezzar at Riblah, in Hamath region. Nebuchadnezzar decided how to punish Zedekiah." 
Jeremiah52:10 He told his soldiers to kill all Zedekiah's sons, while Zedekiah watched. He also punished all the officers of Judah with death there at Riblah." 
Jeremiah52:11 Then they cut out Zedekiah's eyes to make him blind. They tied him with chains and they took him to Babylon as their prisoner. They kept him in prison until the day that he died. 
Jeremiah52:12 King Nebuchadnezzar had an officer whose name was Nebuzaradan. He was the captain of the king's royal guards. Nebuzaradan came to Jerusalem when Nebuchadnezzar had ruled Babylon for 19 years. It was on the tenth day of the fifth month. 
Jeremiah52:13 Nebuzaradan destroyed the Lord 's temple, the king's palace and all the other houses in Jerusalem. He burned them all with fire, so that he destroyed every important building in the city." 
Jeremiah52:14 Then Nebuzaradan commanded his whole army to knock down the walls around Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah52:15 Captain Nebuzaradan sent away as prisoners some of the poor people and the rest of the people who remained in Jerusalem. He also sent away those people who had agreed to serve the king of Babylon, and the workers who had special skills." 
Jeremiah52:16 But he let some of the poorest people stay there. He gave them vineyards and fields to work in. 
Jeremiah52:17 The soldiers from Babylon broke the two bronze pillars that were in the Lord 's temple. They also broke the carts which carried the buckets for water and the large bath called ‘the Sea’. They carried all the bronze pieces away to Babylon. 
Jeremiah52:18 They also took away the pots, the bowls, the spades, the small tools for the lamps, and the dishes. They took all the bronze tools that the priests used in the temple." 
Jeremiah52:19 Captain Nebuzaradan also took away everything that was made from gold or silver. He took the dishes, the baskets that carried hot coals, the bowls for water, the pots, the lampstands and other bowls." 
Jeremiah52:20 The bronze from the things that King Solomon had made for the Lord 's temple was very heavy. They included the two bronze pillars, the large bath called ‘the Sea’, the 12 bronze bulls under the bath and the carts which carried the buckets for water. The bronze from all these things was more than they could weigh." 
Jeremiah52:21 Each pillar was 8 metres high and 5 metres around. The bronze was 8 centimetres thick and each pillar was empty inside. 
Jeremiah52:22 The bronze piece on the top of one pillar was more than a metre high. It had rows of chains with images of pomegranates made from bronze all around it. The other pillar, with its rows of chains and pomegranates, was the same." 
Jeremiah52:23 There were 96 images of pomegranates around the sides of the pillars. There were 100 images of pomegranates on the chains at the top. 
Jeremiah52:24 Captain Nebuzaradan took hold of these people: Seraiah, the leader of the priests. Zephaniah, the next most important priest. The three temple guards." 
Jeremiah52:24 Captain Nebuzaradan took hold of these people: Seraiah, the leader of the priests. Zephaniah, the next most important priest. The three temple guards." 
Jeremiah52:25 He also took hold of these people who remained in Jerusalem: The palace officer with authority over the soldiers. Seven of the king's advisors. The army secretary who took men to join the army. 60 other people of Judah who were inside the city. 
Jeremiah52:26 Captain Nebuzaradan took hold of all those people. He brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 
Jeremiah52:27 There, at Riblah in the Hamath region, the king of Babylon commanded his soldiers to punish them all with death. That was how Judah's people went into exile, away from their own land." 
Jeremiah52:28 This is a list of the number of people that Nebuchadnezzar took away as prisoners to Babylon: He took 3,023 people from Judah in his seventh year as king." 
Jeremiah52:29 He took 832 people from Jerusalem in his 18th year. 
Jeremiah52:30 Captain Nebuzaradan took 745 people from Judah in Nebuchadnezzar's 23rd year as king. So Nebuchadnezzar took 4,600 people away as his prisoners." 
Jeremiah52:31 37 years after King Jehoiachin of Judah had gone as a prisoner to Babylon, Evil-Merodach became the king of Babylon. On the 25th day of the 12th month, he took Jehoiachin out from his prison so that he became free." 
Jeremiah52:32 King Evil-Merodach spoke in a kind way to Jehoiachin. He gave him more honour than the other kings who were with him in Babylon. 
Jeremiah52:33 Jehoiachin no longer had to wear the clothes of a prisoner. Every day for the rest of his life, he ate a meal at the king's table in Babylon." 
Jeremiah52:34 The king of Babylon gave Jehoiachin everything that he needed each day of his life until he died. 
Lamentations1:1 Look! The city at one time was full of people. But now it is completely alone. She was a famous city among the nations of the world. But now she is alone, like a widow. She ruled other countries like a queen. But now she has become a slave." 
Lamentations1:2 She weeps aloud in the night. There are tears on her face. She had many lovers. But now there is no one to comfort her. All her friends have turned away from her. They have become her enemies. 
Lamentations1:3 Judah's enemies have taken her people away as prisoners. The people suffer as slaves of cruel enemies. Judah's people live among foreign nations. They have nowhere to rest safely. Their enemies chased them and they caught them. Judah's people could not escape. 
Lamentations1:4 The roads to Zion are sad places now. Nobody travels along them to come to the festivals. No people meet at the city gates. The priests are sad. The young women weep. The people of Zion are very upset. 
Lamentations1:5 Jerusalem's enemies now rule her people. They live an easy life. The Lord has caused Jerusalem to suffer because of the many sins of her people. Enemies have taken her children away as their prisoners. 
Lamentations1:6 Zion is not a beautiful city any more. Her leaders are like deer that can find no food to eat. They are too weak to escape from the people who are chasing them. 
Lamentations1:7 Jerusalem's people are suffering and they have no homes to live in. So they remember how great their city was, and the valuable things that they had long ago. When their enemies took the city for themselves, nobody came to help them. Jerusalem's enemies laughed while they destroyed the city." 
Lamentations1:8 Jerusalem's sins are very bad. That is why it has become an unclean place. At one time, people gave her honour. But now they do not respect her. They have seen her great shame. Jerusalem's people are upset. They hide their faces because they are ashamed." 
Lamentations1:9 Everyone can see that Jerusalem has become an unclean place. The people did not think about their sins. They did not worry about what would happen. But a terrible thing happened when enemies destroyed their city. There was nobody who could comfort them. They called to God for help, ‘ Lord, see our trouble! Our enemies are boasting that they have won against us!’" 
Lamentations1:10 Enemies have taken all Jerusalem's valuable things for themselves. Her people watched as foreigners went into the holy temple. But the Lord himself had said, ‘Foreign people must not go into that special place.’" 
Lamentations1:11 All Jerusalem's people cry as they look for a bit of food to eat. They have to sell their valuable things to buy enough food to keep them alive. The people say, ‘ Lord, look at us! Nobody respects us!’" 
Lamentations1:12 They say to those who go past the city, ‘Will you do nothing to help us? Look at us! See that we are suffering very much. The Lord has caused us to suffer because he is very angry with us." 
Lamentations1:13 He has sent down fire from above to hurt us. It has destroyed our strength. He has prepared a trap to catch our feet, so that we have to turn back. He has left us weak and alone. We have pain all day, every day." 
Lamentations1:14 Our sins seem to be like a yoke around our necks. The Lord himself has tied that heavy load on us. We were strong, but he has caused us to become weak. He has put us under the power of our enemies. We can do nothing to stop them." 
Lamentations1:15 The Lord God has removed all the strong fighters who were ready to fight for us. He brought a big army to fight against us, and to destroy our young men. The Lord God has stamped on us, the people of Judah, like people stamp on grapes to make wine." 
Lamentations1:16 We weep because these things have happened to us. Tears pour out of our eyes. There is nobody here who can comfort us. Nobody can make us strong and brave. Our enemies have won against us, so our children have no hope.’" 
Lamentations1:17 Zion's people call out for help, but there is nobody to comfort them. The Lord has decided to punish Jacob's descendants. The nations around Judah have become her enemies. Jerusalem has become like a heap of dirty rubbish among the other nations." 
Lamentations1:18 ‘The Lord is right to punish us! We have refused to obey his commands. Listen to us, all you nations. See how much we are suffering. Enemies have taken away our young women and our young men as their prisoners." 
Lamentations1:19 We called to our lovers to help us. But they refused to help us. Our priests and our leaders died in the city's streets. They were looking for food to keep themselves alive. 
Lamentations1:20 Lord, see how much we are suffering! We are very upset. We have turned against you and now we are sad deep inside ourselves. In the streets, our enemies attack us and they kill us. In our homes, there is also death." 
Lamentations1:21 People have heard that we are crying, but nobody comes to comfort us. Our enemies know about our great trouble. They are happy to see that you have punished us. Please now make our enemies suffer as we have suffered. You have promised to do that. Please do it soon!" 
Lamentations1:22 Remember all the wicked things that they have done. Punish them as you have punished us for all our sins. Now we are very sad and we cry a lot. We have no hope.’ 
Lamentations2:1 The Lord God has become very angry. He has caused a dark cloud to cover Zion's people. Jerusalem was the most beautiful city in Israel. But now, from heaven, God has caused it to fall to the ground. He has become so angry, he has not kept his own home safe." 
Lamentations2:2 The Lord God has destroyed all the homes of Jacob's descendants. He would not forgive them. Because of his anger, he has destroyed all Judah's strong towns. He has knocked them all down to become heaps of stones. The kingdom and its rulers are now ashamed." 
Lamentations2:3 Because of God's great anger, he has completely destroyed Israel's army. When Israel's enemies attacked them, God refused to help them with his power. He destroyed Jacob's descendants, like a fire that burns everything." 
Lamentations2:4 He prepared his bow and his arrows, as if he was Israel's enemy. He has used his power to attack us as an enemy! He has killed our brave men that we were proud of. He has become very angry with Zion's people. His anger is like a hot fire that destroys everything." 
Lamentations2:5 The Lord God has become like Israel's enemy. He has destroyed Israel. He has destroyed all her palaces. He has caused her strong cities to become heaps of stones. He has caused all Judah's people to weep. They cannot stop crying. 
Lamentations2:6 God has knocked down his temple, as if it was a hut in a garden. He has destroyed his special meeting place. The Lord has caused Zion's people to forget the festival days and the Sabbath days. Because he is very angry, he has turned against our king and our priests." 
Lamentations2:7 The Lord God no longer accepts sacrifices on his altar. He has gone away from his temple. He has given Jerusalem's palaces to her enemies. They shout loudly in the Lord 's temple, as if it is a happy festival day." 
Lamentations2:8 The Lord decided to destroy the strong walls of Zion. He did it carefully, stone by stone, and he did not stop. The towers and the strong walls around the city now lie on the ground. It is very sad to see this." 
Lamentations2:9 The gates of the city have fallen down on the ground. God has destroyed the metal bars that lock the gates. The king and his officers are prisoners in other lands. There is nobody to teach God's Law. The prophets no longer receive any visions from the Lord. 
Lamentations2:10 Zion's leaders sit on the ground. They are saying nothing. They have dressed themselves in sackcloth. They have put dirt on their heads. The young women of Jerusalem are also sad. They turn their faces down towards the ground. 
Lamentations2:11 I have cried so much that my eyes have become weak. Deep inside me, I am very upset. I feel ill because my people are helpless and they are dying. Children and babies fall in the city's streets because they are so weak." 
Lamentations2:12 Hungry children ask their mothers, ‘Where is our food and our drink?’ They soon fall down on the streets of the city, like a soldier with a wound. They die slowly in their mothers' arms." 
Lamentations2:13 Dear people of Jerusalem, has anyone suffered as much as you have? What can I say that will help you? I cannot comfort you. Your trouble is very great. It is as deep as the sea. Can anyone make you well again?" 
Lamentations2:14 Your prophets had useless visions that deceived you. They should have told you that your sins were very bad. Then you would have been safe from your trouble. But they deceived you with their messages, which were useless lies." 
Lamentations2:15 Everyone who goes past the city laughs at you. They are happy to see your trouble. They insult beautiful Jerusalem and they say, ‘Is this the place that people called the most beautiful city? Did it really bring joy to the whole earth?’" 
Lamentations2:16 All your enemies laugh at you. They hate you and they insult you. They say ‘We have destroyed this city! We have waited a long time for this day. Now we have finally seen it happen!’ 
Lamentations2:17 The Lord has done everything that he decided to do. He has done what he promised to do a long time ago. He has destroyed your city and he has not felt sorry about it. He has given your enemies a reason to be happy. He has made them stronger than you. 
Lamentations2:18 City of Zion, cry to the Lord God with all your strength. Let your tears pour from your eyes like a river. All day and all night, do not rest. Do not stop weeping." 
Lamentations2:19 Get up in the night and call for God's help. Do this all through every night. Tell the Lord God everything that you think and you feel. Let it pour out like water from a jar. Lift up your hands and pray to him. Ask him to save the lives of your children. They fall down on every street in the city because they have no food to eat. 
Lamentations2:20 ‘Look at us, Lord! You have caused us to suffer more than anyone else! Women eat their own children now! They are the children that they have taken care of. Enemies have killed your priests and your prophets in your own temple!" 
Lamentations2:21 Young people and old people lie dead in the streets. The enemy's swords have killed our young women and our young men. You killed our people because you were angry, and you did not feel sorry." 
Lamentations2:22 You called our enemies to come for a feast! They attacked us from all around. At that time of your great anger, nobody could escape and save their lives. Our enemies have destroyed our own children, the children that we gave birth to and we took care of.’" 
Lamentations3:1 I am the man who has suffered. God punished me because he was angry. 
Lamentations3:2 He took me into very dark places. I had to walk in the dark instead of in the light. 
Lamentations3:3 He has continued to attack me many times. All day, every day, he punishes me." 
Lamentations3:4 He has caused my body and skin to spoil. He has broken my bones. 
Lamentations3:5 He has attacked me from every side, so that I have pain and trouble." 
Lamentations3:6 He has made me live in a very dark place, like people who died long ago." 
Lamentations3:7 He has put heavy chains on me like a prisoner. I cannot escape from my troubles. 
Lamentations3:8 I call out loudly for God to help me, but God does not listen to my prayer." 
Lamentations3:9 He has used big rocks to build a wall across every road where I go. I cannot go anywhere. 
Lamentations3:10 God waits to attack me, like a bear. He hides like a lion that wants to kill." 
Lamentations3:11 He has pulled me away from the road. He has torn me in pieces. He has left me without any help. 
Lamentations3:12 He is like a soldier who is ready to shoot his arrows. I am the one that he wants to hit! 
Lamentations3:13 He has shot his arrows and he has hit me. It hurts me deep inside. 
Lamentations3:14 All my people laugh at me. All the time, they sing songs that insult me." 
Lamentations3:15 God has caused me to suffer very much, as if I have drunk a bitter drink." 
Lamentations3:16 He has made me eat stones that break my teeth. He has pushed me down into the dirt on the ground. 
Lamentations3:17 I have no peace in my mind. I cannot remember the happy days that I had before. 
Lamentations3:18 I tell myself, ‘I have no strength to live any more. I no longer have hope that the Lord will help me.’" 
Lamentations3:19 I think about my troubles, with no home to go to. It is like a bitter poison that I have to drink." 
Lamentations3:20 I think about these things all the time, and I feel very upset." 
Lamentations3:21 But now I remember what God is like, so I still have hope." 
Lamentations3:22 The Lord 's faithful love never comes to an end. He never stops being kind to us. 
Lamentations3:23 Every day, we can trust him to be kind. Yes God, you are always faithful!" 
Lamentations3:24 I say to myself, ‘The Lord God is with me and that is enough. I will trust him to help me.’" 
Lamentations3:25 The Lord is kind to people who trust in him. He helps those who turn to him. 
Lamentations3:26 It is good when people wait quietly for the Lord to rescue them. 
Lamentations3:27 It is good if you learn to accept trouble when you are still young. 
Lamentations3:28 When the Lord causes us to suffer, we should sit alone quietly." 
Lamentations3:29 We should be humble as we suffer. Then hope may come again. 
Lamentations3:30 If somebody hits us on one side of our face, we should let them hit the other side too. If people insult us, we should accept it." 
Lamentations3:31 The Lord God will not turn against his people for ever. 
Lamentations3:32 He may cause us to suffer for a time, but then he will be kind to us, because his faithful love is very great." 
Lamentations3:33 It does not please him to make people suffer. He does not like to give them pain. 
Lamentations3:34 If anyone is cruel to all the prisoners in the land, that is not good." 
Lamentations3:35 If anyone turns against the Most High God and cheats people, that is not good." 
Lamentations3:36 If anyone tells lies in court, that is not good. The Lord God is not happy when he sees any of these bad things." 
Lamentations3:37 Nobody can command things to happen unless the Lord God says it must happen. 
Lamentations3:38 The Most High God says what will happen, both good things and bad things." 
Lamentations3:39 When God punishes us for our sins we have no reason to complain. 
Lamentations3:40 Instead, we should think carefully about how we live. We should turn back to the Lord again." 
Lamentations3:41 We should be honest with God in heaven, lift up our hands and pray to him:" 
Lamentations3:42 ‘We have completely turned against you. You have not forgiven us. 
Lamentations3:43 You have chased after us with your great anger. You have not felt sorry to kill us. 
Lamentations3:44 You have hidden yourself from us in a cloud. So our prayers cannot reach you. 
Lamentations3:45 You have caused us to become like dirty rubbish. So the people of other nations do not respect us. 
Lamentations3:46 All our enemies are happy to see that we have trouble. 
Lamentations3:47 Terrible troubles have come to destroy us. So we are very afraid.’ 
Lamentations3:48 Tears pour from my eyes like a river, because enemies have destroyed my people." 
Lamentations3:49 My tears will continue to pour out. They will never stop," 
Lamentations3:50 until the Lord looks down from heaven. He will see what is happening to us. 
Lamentations3:51 I see how much the young women of my city are suffering. It makes me very upset. 
Lamentations3:52 My enemies had no reason to hate me, but they caught me like people catch birds." 
Lamentations3:53 They threw me into a deep hole in the ground and they threw stones at me to kill me. 
Lamentations3:54 The water in the hole rose up my head. Then I thought, ‘I will soon die.’" 
Lamentations3:55 From the bottom of the deep hole I called your name, Lord." 
Lamentations3:56 I said, ‘Please listen to me as I call to you for help.’ You heard my prayer." 
Lamentations3:57 You came near to me when I prayed to you. You said to me, ‘Do not be afraid.’" 
Lamentations3:58 Lord God, you spoke on my behalf. You rescued me from death." 
Lamentations3:59 You have seen how my enemies have been cruel to me. Judge fairly and show that I am right! 
Lamentations3:60 You have seen that my enemies hate me and they make plans to hurt me. 
Lamentations3:61 Lord, you have heard them when they insult me. You know about their plans to hurt me." 
Lamentations3:62 My enemies say bad things about me. They are always thinking about ways to attack me. 
Lamentations3:63 Watch them as they sing songs to insult me. They sing them all the time. 
Lamentations3:64 Lord, punish them as they deserve for all the bad things that they have done." 
Lamentations3:65 Take away all their hope. Curse them so that they suffer! 
Lamentations3:66 Chase after them in your anger. Cause them to disappear from the whole earth. 
Lamentations4:1 Look! The city's gold is no longer beautiful. Even pure gold has become useless. The jewels from the temple lie on the ground in all the city's streets. 
Lamentations4:2 Zion's young men were more valuable to us than gold. But now they seem to have no value. They are like ordinary pots that a potter has made. 
Lamentations4:3 Even jackals feed their babies at their breasts. But Jerusalem's young women have become cruel. They are like ostriches that leave their eggs in the desert. 
Lamentations4:4 Babies' mouths are completely dry, because they are so thirsty. Young children ask people to give them food, but nobody has any food to share with them." 
Lamentations4:5 People who were rich and who ate the best food now die in the streets with nothing to eat. Rich people who wore expensive clothes now die among the rubbish. 
Lamentations4:6 God destroyed the city of Sodom in a moment and nobody was there to help them. Now he has punished my people even more than he punished Sodom's people. 
Lamentations4:7 The leaders of Jerusalem were very pure, whiter than snow or milk. They were strong and healthy. Their bodies seemed to shine like valuable jewels." 
Lamentations4:8 Now their faces are dirty, blacker than coal. When they go out, people do not recognize them. Their skin hangs on their bones. Their skin is as dry as a stick." 
Lamentations4:9 It is better for people who died in a battle than for people who have nothing to eat. The fields provided no crops so people died slowly without food. 
Lamentations4:10 Women who had been kind mothers have now cooked their own children. Their children became their food, when enemies were attacking the city." 
Lamentations4:11 The Lord showed that he was very angry. He started a fire in Zion. The fire destroyed the whole city, even its foundations." 
Lamentations4:12 None of the kings of the earth, or the people of any nation could believe it. They never thought that an enemy could march through Jerusalem's gates." 
Lamentations4:13 But it happened because of the sins of Jerusalem's prophets and her priests. The city became an unclean place because its leaders caused good people to die there. 
Lamentations4:14 They walked around in the city's streets like people who are blind. There was blood on their clothes and people were afraid to touch them. 
Lamentations4:15 People shouted at them, ‘Go away! You are unclean! Go away! Do not touch us!’ So they went away to look for homes in other places. But foreign nations said, ‘They cannot stay here with us!’" 
Lamentations4:16 The Lord himself has sent them away. He does not take care of them any longer. People do not respect the priests. Nobody is kind to the leaders. 
Lamentations4:17 Our eyes became weak as we watched to see if help would come. We continued to hope for help from another nation. But no nation was able to rescue us. 
Lamentations4:18 Our enemies watched us wherever we went. We could not walk in our own streets. We knew that our end would soon come. Only a few days remained. The time had finally come! 
Lamentations4:19 Our enemies could chase us more quickly than eagles that fly high in the sky. They chased us across the mountains. They hid to attack us in the desert. 
Lamentations4:20 The king that the Lord had chosen to rule over us was the one who gave us life. We had thought, ‘He will keep us safe from the armies of other nations.’ But now our enemies have caught him in their traps." 
Lamentations4:21 Edom's people who live in the land of Uz, You may be happy now. But the Lord will punish you too. You will become drunk and be ashamed with no clothes to wear." 
Lamentations4:22 People of Zion, your punishment for your sin will soon finish. God will not leave you to live in foreign countries any longer. But you, Edom's people, God will punish you for your sin. He will show everyone the wicked things that you have done." 
Lamentations5:1 Lord, please think about what has happened to us. See how ashamed we have become." 
Lamentations5:2 Strangers have taken our land for themselves. Foreign people live in our homes. 
Lamentations5:3 We have become children without fathers. Our mothers have become widows. 
Lamentations5:4 We must pay money for the water that we drink. We must buy expensive wood for our fires. 
Lamentations5:5 Our enemies make us work very hard. We are tired and we have no rest. 
Lamentations5:6 We have agreed to serve the Egyptians and the Assyrians, so that we could get food to eat." 
Lamentations5:7 Our ancestors did wrong things but they are now dead. We receive the punishment that they deserved. 
Lamentations5:8 Slaves now rule over us. There is nobody to rescue us from their power. 
Lamentations5:9 Robbers hide in the fields, so our lives are in danger when we look for food." 
Lamentations5:10 Our skin feels as hot as an oven. We are so hungry that we have a fever. 
Lamentations5:11 Our enemies have taken hold of the women in Zion. They have sex with the young women in Judah's cities. 
Lamentations5:12 They have hung our rulers by their hands. They have been cruel to our leaders. 
Lamentations5:13 They force the young men to work like slaves. Our boys fall down as they carry heavy loads of wood. 
Lamentations5:14 Our leaders can no longer meet at the city gate. The young men no longer make their music. 
Lamentations5:15 We are not happy any more. We no longer dance, but we weep." 
Lamentations5:16 We have nothing to be proud of any more. Terrible trouble will happen to us, because of our sins." 
Lamentations5:17 Because of this, we are very upset. Our eyes are full of tears and we cannot see properly." 
Lamentations5:18 Mount Zion has become a heap of stones. Wild animals walk all over it. 
Lamentations5:19 But Lord, you rule as king for ever. Your kingdom will continue for all time." 
Lamentations5:20 Why do you still forget about us? Why have you not come to help us for so long? 
Lamentations5:21 Lord, bring us back. Help us to return to you. Let us live well, as we did before." 
Lamentations5:22 We are sure that you have not completely turned away from us. Do not be so angry with us that we have no hope. 
Ezekiel1:1 God spoke to me on the fifth day of the fourth month in the 30th year. I was among the prisoners from Judah at the side of the Kebar River. At that time the skies opened and I saw visions from God. 
Ezekiel1:2 King Jehoiachin of Judah had been a prisoner in Babylon for five years. On the fifth day of the month," 
Ezekiel1:3 the Lord spoke to Buzi's son, Ezekiel the priest. He was standing beside the River Kebar in Babylon. While Ezekiel was there, the Lord came to him with power." 
Ezekiel1:4 As I looked, I saw a great storm that was coming from the north. It was a large cloud, with bright lightning. Light shone all around the cloud. It was like a fire that had bright metal in the centre of it." 
Ezekiel1:5 I could see something like four living things in the middle of the fire. Each of them had the shape of a human. 
Ezekiel1:6 But each of them had four faces and four wings. 
Ezekiel1:7 Their legs were straight. Their feet were like the feet of young cows. They shone like bright bronze. 
Ezekiel1:8 They had human hands under their wings on the four sides. Each of these four living things had faces and wings that were like this: 
Ezekiel1:9 Their wings touched each other. All the living things moved forward together. They did not turn as they moved. 
Ezekiel1:10 This is what their faces looked like: Each of the living things had four faces. There was a human face at the front. There was a lion's face on the right side. There was a bull's face on the left side. Each of them also had the face of an eagle. 
Ezekiel1:11 Their wings waved up above them. Two wings of each living thing touched the wings of the living things on each side of them. Each living thing covered its body with its other two wings. 
Ezekiel1:12 The living things each moved forward, in the direction that the spirit wanted them to go. They did not turn as they moved." 
Ezekiel1:13 In the middle of the living things was a fire. It looked like coals that were burning, or like bright flames. The fire moved around among the living things. It shone brightly, with lightning coming out from it." 
Ezekiel1:14 The living things moved around very quickly, as fast as lightning." 
Ezekiel1:15 I continued to look at the four living things. Each of them had a wheel on the ground at its side. 
Ezekiel1:16 The four wheels all looked the same. They shone like bright jewels. The wheels were made like this: Each wheel had another wheel that went across the middle of it. 
Ezekiel1:17 They moved forward in the same direction that the living things moved. They did not turn in any other direction. 
Ezekiel1:18 The wheels had high edges. Eyes completely covered the edges of all the wheels. 
Ezekiel1:19 When the living things moved, the wheels moved with them. If the living beings rose up from the ground, the wheels rose with them." 
Ezekiel1:20 The living things went wherever the spirit wanted them to go. The wheels would also go with them. That was because the spirit of the living things was in each wheel. 
Ezekiel1:21 When the living things moved, the wheels also moved. When the living things stopped, the wheels stopped moving too. When the living things rose up from the ground, the wheels went up at their side. That happened because the spirit of the living things was in each wheel." 
Ezekiel1:22 I saw something over the heads of the living things. It looked like a high roof that shone brightly like ice. 
Ezekiel1:23 The living things all stood under the roof. Each of them stood with its wings held out towards the living things on each side of it. They covered their bodies with their other two wings. 
Ezekiel1:24 When they moved, I could hear the sound of their wings. They made a noise like lots of water that pours along a river. It was also like the voice of the Almighty God, or the noise of a great army. When the living things stopped moving, they put their wings down at their sides." 
Ezekiel1:25 While they stood with their wings down at their sides, I heard a voice. It came from above the roof over their heads." 
Ezekiel1:26 Above the roof, there was something that looked like a throne. It was made of a blue jewel called sapphire. On the throne, high above, I saw something that looked like the shape of a man." 
Ezekiel1:27 The top part of his body shone like a fire with bright metal in the centre of it. The lower part of his body looked like flames of fire. All around the human shape, there was a very bright light." 
Ezekiel1:28 It shone with the colours of a rainbow in the clouds when there is rain. This bright light showed the glory of the Lord, who was there. When I saw this, I bent down low with my face on the ground. I heard a voice that was speaking to me." 
Ezekiel2:1 The voice said to me, ‘Son of man, you must stand up on your feet. Then I will speak to you.’" 
Ezekiel2:2 The Spirit came into me while he spoke. He made me stand up and I heard him speak to me. 
Ezekiel2:3 He said, ‘Son of man, I am sending you to Israel's people. They are a nation of people who have turned against me. They and their ancestors have refused to obey me, even until today." 
Ezekiel2:4 I am sending you to speak to these people. They do not accept my authority and they refuse to change. But you must say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says.”" 
Ezekiel2:5 The Israelites may listen to what you say, or they may not listen. They do not want to obey me. But they will know that I have sent a prophet to them." 
Ezekiel2:6 You must not be afraid of them, son of man. Do not be afraid of their words either. It may seem that you are living with thorn bushes all around you. You may think that they can hurt you like dangerous scorpions. But do not be afraid of what they say to you, or how they look at you. Remember that they refuse to obey me." 
Ezekiel2:7 You must speak my words to them, whether they listen to you or not. They are people who refuse to obey me." 
Ezekiel2:8 But you must listen to what I say to you, son of man. Do not refuse to obey me, as those people refuse to obey me. Open your mouth and eat what I will give to you.’" 
Ezekiel2:9 When I looked, I saw a hand! It held out a scroll towards me." 
Ezekiel2:10 He opened the scroll so that I could see inside it. I saw words that were written on both sides of the scroll. There were sad funeral songs, and words about great trouble that make you weep." 
Ezekiel3:1 He said to me, ‘Son of man, eat what you can see in front of you. Eat this scroll with words on it. Then go and speak to the Israelites.’" 
Ezekiel3:2 So I opened my mouth and he gave me the scroll to eat. 
Ezekiel3:3 He said, ‘Son of man, I am giving you this scroll. Eat it all and fill your stomach with it.’ So I ate it. It had a sweet taste like honey in my mouth." 
Ezekiel3:4 Then he said to me, ‘Son of man, now go to Israel's people and speak my words to them." 
Ezekiel3:5 I am not sending you to a people whose words you cannot understand. They do not speak a difficult language. No, I am sending you to Israel's people." 
Ezekiel3:6 I am not sending you to people who speak many different languages that you cannot understand. If I did send you to people like that, I am sure that they would listen to you." 
Ezekiel3:7 But Israel's people will not agree to listen to you. That is because they refuse to listen to me. All the Israelites have decided not to obey me, and they will not change." 
Ezekiel3:8 But I will make you as strong in your mind as they are. You will not change what you think. 
Ezekiel3:9 You will be as strong as the strongest stone that nobody can break. Do not be afraid of them. Do not be afraid of how they look at you. Remember that they are people who refuse to obey me.’ 
Ezekiel3:10 Then he said to me, ‘Son of man, listen carefully to all the words that I say to you. Remember them." 
Ezekiel3:11 Now you must go to the Israelites who are prisoners in Babylon. They are your own people. Give my message to them and say, “This is what the Almighty Lord says.” They may listen to you or they may refuse to listen. But you must still give them my message.’" 
Ezekiel3:12 Then the Spirit lifted me up. I heard a loud noise like thunder behind me. It was the sound of the Lord 's great glory as it rose up from its place! 
Ezekiel3:13 I heard the sound of the living things' wings as they touched each other. I also heard the loud noise of the wheels that were at the side of the living things. It was like the noise of thunder. 
Ezekiel3:14 Then the Spirit lifted me up and he took me away. I was angry and upset in my mind. But the Lord gave me great power and strength. 
Ezekiel3:15 I came to Tel Abib near the Kebar River, where the Israelite prisoners lived. I stayed with them for seven days. I was very upset as I sat among them." 
Ezekiel3:16 When the seven days were finished, the Lord gave this message to me:" 
Ezekiel3:17 ‘Son of man, I have made you a guard to warn Israel's people about danger. You must listen to the messages that I will give to you. Then you must use my messages to warn the Israelites." 
Ezekiel3:18 I may say to a wicked person, “Your punishment will be death.” Then you must warn that person. You must tell him to stop doing wicked things so that he may save his life. If you do not tell the wicked person this, he will die because of his sins. But I will say that you are guilty, as if you had killed him yourself." 
Ezekiel3:19 So you must warn the wicked person. If you warn him, he still may not stop doing wicked things. Then that wicked person will die because of his sins. But you will have saved your own life." 
Ezekiel3:20 A righteous person may stop doing things that are right. He may start to do bad things. Then I will put him in danger. He will die as punishment for his sins. I will not remember the good things that he did. But if you have not warned him of the danger, I will say that you are guilty. It is as if you killed him yourself." 
Ezekiel3:21 But if you do warn that righteous person to stop doing bad things, he may agree. Then he will continue to live, because you warned him. You also will have saved your own life.’" 
Ezekiel3:22 The Lord continued to give me strength. He said to me, ‘Stand up now! Go out into the valley and I will speak to you there.’" 
Ezekiel3:23 So I got up and I went out to the valley. I saw the glory of the Lord in that place. It was like the glory that I had seen beside the Kebar river. I bent down low, with my face to the ground." 
Ezekiel3:24 Then a spirit came into me. He lifted me up and he made me stand on my feet. The Lord said to me, ‘Go into your house and shut the door." 
Ezekiel3:25 Son of man, people will tie you with ropes so that you cannot move. You will not be able to go out among the people." 
Ezekiel3:26 I will also stop your tongue from moving so that you cannot speak. You will not be able to warn the Israelites. They are people who refuse to obey me. 
Ezekiel3:27 But sometimes I will speak to you. Then you will be able to open your mouth and give them my message. You must tell them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says.” Some of them will listen to my message. But other people will refuse to listen. They are a nation of people who refuse to obey me.’" 
Ezekiel4:1 ‘Son of man, take a large brick and put it in front of you. On the brick, draw a picture of the city, Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel4:2 Show that soldiers are ready to attack the city. Build heaps of earth around it so that nobody can escape. Put heavy pieces of wood around the city that the enemy could use to break its walls. 
Ezekiel4:3 Then you must do this. Take a flat plate of iron and put it between you and the brick. It will be like a wall between you and the city. Look towards the city. Show that soldiers are around the city and they are ready to attack it. Nobody can escape. This will be a picture to show Israel's people what will happen to them. 
Ezekiel4:4 Then lie down on your left side. Show that you are receiving the punishment for the sins of the Israelites. You will suffer like that for 390 days. It will show the number of years that I have decided to punish Israel's people. Each day that you suffer will show one year of their punishment. 
Ezekiel4:5  
Ezekiel4:6 After you have finished all those days, lie down again. This time, lie down on your right side for 40 days. You will suffer like that to show the punishment for the sins of Judah's people. Each day will show one year of their punishment." 
Ezekiel4:7 Continue to look towards the brick which has the picture of Jerusalem on it. Show that you are ready to attack it, like soldiers all around it. Speak my message to warn the city." 
Ezekiel4:8 Listen! I will use ropes to tie around you. You will not be able to turn from one side to another. You will lie on one side until you have finished all the days to attack the city. 
Ezekiel4:9 You must take some grains like wheat and barley, and different kinds of beans. Then put them all into a jar. Use them to make bread for yourself. You must eat this for 390 days while you lie on your left side." 
Ezekiel4:10 You should eat 220 grams of food each day. Eat it at the same time each day. 
Ezekiel4:11 You must measure the water that you drink each day. You may drink two cups at the same times each day. 
Ezekiel4:12 Prepare your food like a cake that is made from barley. Bake it on a fire that you have made with human dung. Do this where the people can see you.’ 
Ezekiel4:13 The Lord also said, ‘I will send Israel's people away to live in foreign lands. Then they will have to eat unclean food, as you will do now.’" 
Ezekiel4:14 Then I said, ‘No, Almighty Lord, I could not use human dung. It would make me unclean. Since I was a child I have never eaten any food that would make me unclean. I have never eaten meat from a dead animal that people have found. I have not eaten meat from an animal that wild animals have killed.’" 
Ezekiel4:15 So God said to me, ‘I will allow you to use dung from cows instead of from humans. You may use that to make the fire to cook your bread.’" 
Ezekiel4:16 Then God said to me, ‘Son of man, I will soon take away the bread in Jerusalem. The people will have to measure the food that they eat. And they will have to measure the water that they drink. They will worry and be afraid." 
Ezekiel4:17 They will not have enough food or water. Everyone will be very upset. Their bodies will become very thin when I punish them for their sins.’ 
Ezekiel5:1 ‘Son of man, take a sharp sword. Use it like a knife to cut off your hair and your beard. Then use some scales to weigh the hair. Put it into three separate parts that are the same weight." 
Ezekiel5:2 Wait until all the days when you are lying on your side have finished. Take one part of your hair and burn it on the brick which has the picture of Jerusalem. Take another part and use a sword to cut it into small pieces. Let the pieces fall all around the brick which shows the city. Then take the third part and throw the hairs into the wind. I will run after them with a sword. 
Ezekiel5:3 But keep a few of your hairs. Tie them into the edge of your clothes. 
Ezekiel5:4 Finally, take out some of these hairs. Throw them into the fire and burn them. This fire will grow so that it reaches all Israel's people." 
Ezekiel5:5 I, the Almighty Lord, say this: This shows what will happen to Jerusalem. I have put the city in the centre of all the nations. It has countries all around it." 
Ezekiel5:6 But Jerusalem's people have refused to obey my rules and my commands. They have become more wicked than the nations and countries around them. They have not obeyed my laws. 
Ezekiel5:7 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: You people of Jerusalem have done worse things than any of the nations around you. You have not obeyed my rules or my laws. You have not even obeyed the laws of the nations around you. 
Ezekiel5:8 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: I myself have become your enemy, people of Jerusalem. I will punish you while the other nations watch." 
Ezekiel5:9 I will punish you for all the disgusting things that you have done. I have never punished anyone like that before. And I will never do it again. 
Ezekiel5:10 When I punish you like that, you will have no food to eat. Parents will be so hungry that they will eat their children. Children will eat their parents. I will chase away those few people who are still alive. They will go to all parts of the earth." 
Ezekiel5:11 The Almighty Lord says this: I promise you as surely as I live that I will remove you. You have made my holy place unclean. You have put your disgusting idols in my house. You have done wicked things there. Because of that I will not be sorry for you. I will not save you. 
Ezekiel5:12 Illness or famine will kill one third of your people inside the city. The soldiers who are around the city will kill a third of your people. And I will chase away a third of them to all parts of the earth. I will cause their enemies to run after them with their swords. 
Ezekiel5:13 When I have done all that to them, I will not be angry any longer. I will not punish them any more, because it is enough. When I have finished, they will know that I, the Lord, have spoken to them. I have been angry with them because they have not been faithful to me." 
Ezekiel5:14 I will cause your city to become a heap of stones. People of the other nations around you will laugh at you when they see what has happened to you. 
Ezekiel5:15 They will all laugh at you and insult you. They will see that I was very angry with you and I punished you. Then they will be afraid of my great anger. I, the Lord, say this!" 
Ezekiel5:16 I will take away your bread so that famine kills more and more of you. It will seem that I am shooting arrows at you to destroy you. 
Ezekiel5:17 Famine or wild animals will kill you. Your children will no longer live. Illness and war will destroy you. I will send soldiers to attack you. I, the Lord, say this!’" 
Ezekiel6:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel6:2 ‘Son of man, look towards the mountains of Israel. Tell them my message to warn them." 
Ezekiel6:3 Say, “You mountains of Israel, listen to this message from the Almighty Lord. This is what the Almighty Lord says to the mountains, the hills and the valleys: I am coming here to attack you. I will destroy the places where you worship false gods." 
Ezekiel6:4 I will destroy your altars for sacrifices and your altars for incense. I will kill the people who worship there and put them in front of their idols. 
Ezekiel6:5 The dead bodies of you people of Israel will lie in front of your idols. I will cause soldiers to throw your bones on the ground around the altars. 
Ezekiel6:6 In all the places that you live, soldiers will destroy your towns. They will also destroy the places where you worship false gods. They will break down the altars so that they become heaps of stones. They will break your idols into pieces. They will destroy the altars where you burn incense. They will remove all those things that you have made." 
Ezekiel6:7 Dead bodies will lie on the ground everywhere that you live. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel6:8 But I will allow some of you to live. Those people will escape when the enemy army attacks. They will run away to live in foreign countries. 
Ezekiel6:9 When they are living as prisoners among those other nations, they will remember me. They will realize that they made me very sad because they were not faithful to me. They stopped worshipping me. Instead, they chose to worship idols. Then they will be ashamed of themselves, because of all the disgusting things which they have done." 
Ezekiel6:10 They will know that I am the Lord. They will know that it was true when I promised to bring this terrible trouble to them.” ’ 
Ezekiel6:11 This is what I, the Almighty Lord, say to you, Ezekiel: ‘ Clap your hands together. Stamp on the ground with your feet. Show that you are very upset because of all the disgusting, evil things that Israel's people have done. War, famine and disease will kill them." 
Ezekiel6:12 Illness will kill the people who live far away. Enemy soldiers will kill those who live near to the city. Famine will kill those people who are still alive. Because I am very angry with them, I will punish them very much." 
Ezekiel6:13 Then they will know that I am the Lord. They will see the dead bodies of their own people. The bodies will be lying among the idols that they worshipped. They will be lying around the altars of their false gods, on every high hill and mountain. The dead bodies will lie under the big trees where they offered incense to all their idols." 
Ezekiel6:14 I will punish them very much. I will destroy their land from the desert in the south as far as Diblah. I will make it a place where nobody can live. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’ 
Ezekiel7:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel7:2 ‘Son of man, this is what I, the Almighty Lord, say to the land of Israel: The end is now here! I will soon destroy the whole land." 
Ezekiel7:3 The time has come for your final punishment! You will know that I am very angry with you. I will punish you because of the bad way that you have lived. You will receive the punishment that you deserve for all the disgusting things that you have done. 
Ezekiel7:4 I will not be sorry for you. I will not be kind to you. I will punish you as you deserve. You have done disgusting things. So I will punish you and you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel7:5 This is what the Almighty Lord says: Terrible trouble is coming to you! It will be worse than any other trouble. 
Ezekiel7:6 The end has now come! It is finally here to destroy you! Look out! 
Ezekiel7:7 You people who live in the land will now receive terrible punishment. The day for that to happen is very near. There will be no more sound of happy parties on the mountains. Instead there will be shouts of fear. 
Ezekiel7:8 Very soon, I will punish you because of my great anger. You will know how angry I am. I will judge you for the way that you have lived. I will punish you as you deserve for the disgusting things that you have done." 
Ezekiel7:9 I will not be sorry for you. I will not be kind to you. I will punish you as you deserve, because of the disgusting things that you have done. Then you will know that I, the Lord, am causing you pain." 
Ezekiel7:10 Yes, the day of your punishment is here! Terrible trouble is coming to you! Like a tree that is ready to make flowers, your proud and wicked acts are ready for punishment." 
Ezekiel7:11 You use violence to help you to do wicked things. None of all those people will escape. None of their riches or valuable things will remain. 
Ezekiel7:12 The day of punishment has now come! The person who buys things will no longer be happy. Nor will the person who sells things. My anger will bring pain to all of them. 
Ezekiel7:13 Any man who sells his land will never get it back as long as he lives. God has shown what he will do to all those people. He will not change his mind. Each one will lose his life because of their sins. 
Ezekiel7:14 The soldiers make a noise with trumpets to prepare for war. But nobody goes out to fight a battle because my anger has brought punishment for all the people. 
Ezekiel7:15 The enemy is ready to attack outside the city. Inside the city, there is disease and famine. Enemy soldiers will kill the people who are in the country. Famine and disease will kill everyone who is in the city." 
Ezekiel7:16 Those who remain alive will escape. They will run to the mountains. They will be like doves that hunters have chased out of the valleys. They will cry aloud because of their sins. 
Ezekiel7:17 Their hands will be weak. Their knees will shake. 
Ezekiel7:18 They will wear sackcloth. They will be very afraid. Their faces will show that they are ashamed. They will cut all the hair from their heads. 
Ezekiel7:19 They will throw their silver away in the streets. They will think that their gold has no value, like dirt. Their silver and their gold will not be able to save them on the day of the Lord 's great anger. When they are hungry, their money will not buy them any food. It is their riches that have caused them to do wicked things." 
Ezekiel7:20 They were proud of their beautiful jewels. They used them to make disgusting idols and images. That is why I, the Lord, have made them hate their valuable things." 
Ezekiel7:21 I will allow foreigners and wicked people to take those things from them. They will use those valuable things in a disgusting way. 
Ezekiel7:22 Those foreigners and robbers will go into my holy temple. They will cause it to become unclean. But I will look away and I will allow them to do that. 
Ezekiel7:23 Prepare chains to tie my people. The whole land is full of murder and violence. 
Ezekiel7:24 I will bring the most wicked people from other nations to attack. They will take the houses of my people and they will live in them. The strong men among my people will no longer boast. Enemies will spoil the holy places where my people worshipped. 
Ezekiel7:25 Terrible trouble is coming to my people! When they are afraid, they will look for peace. But they will not find it." 
Ezekiel7:26 Many troubles will happen, one after another. There will be lots of news about terrible things. People will ask the prophets to tell them what will happen. The priests will not have anything to teach the people. The leaders will not have any good advice." 
Ezekiel7:27 The king will be very sad. His son will not hope for anything good to happen. The people will shake with fear. I will punish them as they deserve for the way that they have lived. I will judge them in the same way that they have judged other people. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’ 
Ezekiel8:1 On the fifth day of the sixth month of the sixth year, I was sitting in my house. The leaders of Judah were sitting in front of me. While I sat there, the Almighty Lord took hold of me with great power." 
Ezekiel8:2 I looked up and I saw something that looked like a man. The lower part of his body looked like fire. Above that, his body looked like bright metal." 
Ezekiel8:3 He put out something in the shape of a hand. He took hold of the hair on my head. Then the Spirit lifted me up, high in the sky, and took me to Jerusalem. This happened in the vision which God gave to me. I came to the north gate of the temple's inside yard. In that place there was a disgusting idol that made God very angry." 
Ezekiel8:4 Then I saw that the bright glory of Israel's God was there. It was like the glory that I had seen beside the River Kebar. 
Ezekiel8:5 Then the Lord said to me, ‘Son of man, look up towards the north.’ When I looked, I saw the disgusting idol. It stood at the entrance, on the north side of the altar gate." 
Ezekiel8:6 He said to me, ‘Son of man, look at what they are doing! Israel's people are doing very disgusting things here. They are chasing me far away from my holy temple. But you will see even worse things than these.’" 
Ezekiel8:7 Then the Lord took me to the entrance of the temple's yard. As I looked, I saw a hole in the wall." 
Ezekiel8:8 He said to me, ‘Son of man, make a hole through the wall here.’ So I dug into the wall. I found a door in it." 
Ezekiel8:9 He said to me, ‘Go in there. Look at the wicked things that they are doing in this place.’" 
Ezekiel8:10 So I went in and I looked. I saw pictures of many things on the walls all around. There were pictures of snakes and other disgusting animals. There were also images of the things that Israel's people were worshipping. 
Ezekiel8:11 70 of Israel's leaders were there. Shaphan's son Jaazaniah, was also among them. Each of them held a pot to burn incense. The smell of the incense rose up above them." 
Ezekiel8:12 The Lord said, ‘Son of man, look at the wicked things that Israel's leaders are doing! They are doing them secretly in the dark. Each of them has a room where they worship their images of idols. They say, “The Lord does not see us! The Lord has gone away from our land!” ’" 
Ezekiel8:13 The Lord said to me, ‘You will see even worse things that they are doing.’" 
Ezekiel8:14 Then he took me to the entrance at the north gate of the temple. I saw some women who were sitting there. They were weeping because the god Tammuz was dead. 
Ezekiel8:15 He said to me, ‘Son of man, look at that! But you will see even worse things than these.’" 
Ezekiel8:16 Then the Lord took me to the inside yard of his temple. I could see about 25 men who were standing between the altar and the front of the temple. Their backs were turned towards the Lord 's temple. Their faces looked towards the east. They were bending down low to worship the sun that was rising in the east! 
Ezekiel8:17 The Lord said to me, ‘Son of man, look at that! The people of Judah are doing these disgusting things here in my temple! That is a terrible thing! And they are also doing violent things everywhere in their land. They continue to make me angry all the time. Look at them! They insult me as much as they can!" 
Ezekiel8:18 So now I will punish them in my great anger. I will not be sorry for them. I will not be kind to them. They may shout at me for help, but I will not listen to them.’" 
Ezekiel9:1 I heard the Lord shout loudly, ‘Bring here the men who will punish the people of this city! Tell the guards to bring their weapons with them.’" 
Ezekiel9:2 Then I looked and I saw six men. They were coming from the higher gate that is on the north side of the temple. Each man carried his weapon and he was ready to kill people. A man who was wearing white linen clothes was among them. At his side he had a small box with pens in it. They came in and they stood next to the bronze altar. 
Ezekiel9:3 The bright glory of Israel's God then moved up from above the cherubs where it had been. It moved to the entrance of the temple. Then the Lord called to the man who was wearing linen clothes. 
Ezekiel9:4 He said, ‘Go everywhere in the city of Jerusalem. Find the people who are very sad because of the disgusting things that people are doing in the city. Use your pens to put a mark on those people. Put the mark on the front of their heads.’" 
Ezekiel9:5 While I listened, the Lord said to the other men, ‘Follow that man through the city. Kill people who do not have his mark on their heads. Do not be sorry for them. Do not be kind to them." 
Ezekiel9:6 Kill the old men, young men and girls. Kill the women and the children. Destroy them all! But do not touch anyone who has the mark on their head.’ So the men started to kill. The first people that they killed were the city's leaders who were in front of the temple." 
Ezekiel9:7 The Lord said to them, ‘Fill the yards of the temple with dead bodies! Make the temple an unclean place! Go and do it now!’ So they went out and they started to kill people everywhere in the city." 
Ezekiel9:8 I was alone while they were doing this. I bent down low with my face towards the ground. I called out, ‘ Almighty Lord! Will you destroy all Israel's people who are still alive? Are you so angry with the people of Jerusalem that you will do that?’" 
Ezekiel9:9 He answered me, ‘The sins of the people of Israel and Judah are very great. They murder people everywhere in the land. In the city, nobody does what is right. They say, “The Lord has gone away from our land! The Lord does not see what we are doing!” " 
Ezekiel9:10 So I will not be sorry for them. I will not be kind to them. Now I will punish them as they deserve for the things that they have done.’ 
Ezekiel9:11 Then I saw again the man who was wearing linen clothes, with the box of pens. He brought this message to the Lord: ‘I have done what you commanded me to do.’" 
Ezekiel10:1 In the vision, I saw something that looked like a throne. It was made from a blue jewel called sapphire. It was above the roof and it was high over the heads of the cherubs." 
Ezekiel10:2 The Lord said to the man who was wearing linen clothes, ‘Go between the wheels that are under the cherubs. Pick up some of the hot coals that are burning among the cherubs. Fill your hands with them. Then throw them everywhere over the city.’ Then the man did this, as I watched him." 
Ezekiel10:3 The cherubs stood at the south side of the temple when the man went in among them. A cloud filled the inside yard of the temple. 
Ezekiel10:4 Then the Lord 's bright glory rose up. It went up from above the cherubs. It moved to the entrance of the temple. The cloud filled the temple. The bright glory of the Lord shone everywhere in the yard. 
Ezekiel10:5 The noise of the cherubs' wings was very loud. It reached as far as the outside yard. The noise was like the voice of Almighty God when he speaks. 
Ezekiel10:6 The Lord gave a command to the man who was wearing linen clothes. He said, ‘Go in among the cherubs. Take coals of fire from between the wheels.’ So the man went in and he stood beside one of the wheels." 
Ezekiel10:7 Then one of the cherubs put his hand towards the fire which was among the cherubs. He took some coals from the fire. He put them into the hands of the man who was wearing linen clothes. The man took the coals and he went out. 
Ezekiel10:8 (Under the wings of the cherubs I could see something that looked like human hands.) 
Ezekiel10:9 In the vision, I saw four wheels beside the cherubs. There was one wheel at the side of each cherub. The wheels shone like bright jewels." 
Ezekiel10:10 All the four wheels looked the same. Each wheel had another wheel that went across the middle of it. 
Ezekiel10:11 When the cherubs moved, they could go forward in any of the four directions. They did not have to turn as they moved. When the head turned in a certain direction, they would move that way. They did not need to turn." 
Ezekiel10:12 Eyes completely covered their bodies. This included their backs, their hands and their wings. Eyes also covered the edges of all the wheels." 
Ezekiel10:13 I heard someone call the wheels, ‘wheels that turn very fast’." 
Ezekiel10:14 Each of the cherubs had four faces. One face was the face of a bull. The second face was the face of a man. The third face was a lion's face. And the fourth face was an eagle's face. 
Ezekiel10:15 The cherubs rose up into the air. They were the same as the living things that I had seen beside the River Kebar. 
Ezekiel10:16 When they moved, the wheels that were beside them also moved. When the cherubs lifted up their wings to fly into the air, the wheels moved beside them." 
Ezekiel10:17 When the cherubs stood still, the wheels also stood still. And when the cherubs rose in the air, the wheels also rose with them. This was because the spirit of the living things was in the wheels." 
Ezekiel10:18 Then the glory of the Lord moved away from the entrance of the temple. It stopped at a place above the cherubs. 
Ezekiel10:19 Then the cherubs lifted up their wings and they rose up from the ground. The wheels also moved with them. I watched them do this. They stopped by the east gate of the Lord 's temple. The glory of Israel's God stayed above them. 
Ezekiel10:20 They were the same living things that I had seen beside the Kebar River when they were under Israel's God. I realized that they were cherubs. 
Ezekiel10:21 Each of them had four faces and four wings. They had something with the shape of human hands under their wings. 
Ezekiel10:22 They had the same four faces that I had seen beside the River Kebar. Each of them moved forward and they did not turn. 
Ezekiel11:1 Then the Spirit lifted me up and took me to the east gate of the Lord 's temple. When I was there, near the entrance of the gate, I could see 25 men. Azzur's son Jaazaniah and Benaiah's son Pelatiah were among them. They were leaders of the people." 
Ezekiel11:2 The Lord said to me. ‘Son of man, these are the men who decide to do evil things in this city. They also give wicked advice to the people." 
Ezekiel11:3 They say, “It is not the right time now to build houses. This city is like a pot to cook meat on a fire. We are like the meat in that pot.”" 
Ezekiel11:4 Son of man, you must speak my message to warn them.’" 
Ezekiel11:5 Then the Lord 's Spirit took hold of me. He said to me, ‘This is the Lord 's message to the people: Tell them, “People of Israel, I know what you are saying. I know the thoughts that you have in your minds." 
Ezekiel11:6 You have killed many people in this city. The streets are full of their dead bodies.” 
Ezekiel11:7 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: “The dead bodies that you have put in this city are the meat. And the city is the pot to cook them in. But as for you, I will remove you from it!" 
Ezekiel11:8 You are afraid that an enemy will attack you. So I will bring an army to attack you.” That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Ezekiel11:9 “I will remove you from this city. I will put you under the power of a foreign army. I will use them to punish you. 
Ezekiel11:10 Enemy soldiers will use their swords to kill you. I will punish you in your own country. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel11:11 This city will not be like a pot where you can be safe. You will not be like the meat in that pot. I will punish you while you are still inside Israel. 
Ezekiel11:12 Then you will know that I am the Lord. You have not obeyed my rules or my laws. Instead, you have lived in the same wicked way as the nations around you.” ’" 
Ezekiel11:13 While I was speaking the Lord 's message, Benaiah's son Pelatiah died. Then I bent down low with my face towards the ground. I shouted, ‘Almighty Lord, do not do this! You will completely destroy all Israel's people who remain!’" 
Ezekiel11:14 Then the Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel11:15 ‘Son of man, listen to what the people of Jerusalem are saying about you, your brothers and your relatives. They say this about all the people of Israel who are now in Babylon. They are saying, “Those people have gone far away from the Lord. So now this land belongs to us and we can keep it.”" 
Ezekiel11:16 So say this: “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I removed my people from their own land and I sent them far away. I sent them to live among other nations and in other countries. But I am still near to them in the countries where they have gone.” 
Ezekiel11:17 Then say, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will bring you from the places where you have been living. I will bring you back together from those countries. I will give the land of Israel back to you.” " 
Ezekiel11:18 The people will return to their land. Then they will destroy their idols and other disgusting things. 
Ezekiel11:19 I will give them new thoughts so that they will choose to worship only me. I will put a new spirit in them. They will no longer refuse to change their way of life. Instead, I will help them to want to obey me." 
Ezekiel11:20 Then they will know my rules and my laws. They will be careful to obey them. They will be my people and I will be their God. 
Ezekiel11:21 But it will be different for those who continue to worship their disgusting idols. I will punish them as they deserve because of the evil things that they have done. That is what the Almighty Lord says.’ 
Ezekiel11:22 Then the cherubs lifted up their wings to fly. The wheels were at their sides. And the bright glory of Israel's God was above them. 
Ezekiel11:23 The glory of the Lord rose up and it went away from the city. It stopped over a mountain on the east side of the city. 
Ezekiel11:24 In the vision, the Spirit lifted me up and took me back to Babylon. I returned to the Israelites who were prisoners there. That was the end of the vision." 
Ezekiel11:25 I told the Israelites everything that the Lord had shown me in the vision. 
Ezekiel12:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel12:2 ‘Son of man, you are living among a people who refuse to obey me. They have eyes, but they do not see anything. They have ears, but they do not hear anything. They refuse to listen to me." 
Ezekiel12:3 Because of that, son of man, pretend that you are going away as a prisoner. During the day, prepare your things for the journey. While people are watching, prepare to leave your home and go to another place. The people refuse to obey me, but perhaps they will understand what you are doing." 
Ezekiel12:4 Bring out the things that you have prepared for your journey. Do that during the day while the people are watching you. Then leave your home in the evening while they are watching you. Go away like someone who is travelling to a far country as a prisoner. 
Ezekiel12:5 While the people are watching, dig a hole in the wall of your house. Go out through the hole and carry your things with you." 
Ezekiel12:6 Put your bag of things on your shoulder while the people watch you. Carry it out when it starts to become dark. Cover your face so that you cannot see the ground. I want you to do this so that it warns Israel's people about danger.’ 
Ezekiel12:7 So I did what the Lord had told me to do. I carried out a bag of my things to show that I was going on a journey. I prepared these things during the day. Then in the evening I used my hands to dig a hole in the wall of my house. When it became dark, I went out. I carried my bag of things on my shoulder. The people watched me do all this." 
Ezekiel12:8 In the morning, the Lord gave this message to me:" 
Ezekiel12:9 ‘Son of man, listen to Israel's people who refuse to obey me. They have asked you, “What are you doing?”" 
Ezekiel12:10 Say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: This is a message about the prince who rules in Jerusalem and all the Israelites who are there.”" 
Ezekiel12:11 Tell them, “I am teaching you a lesson to warn you about what will happen to you.” As you have done, the people will have to go as prisoners to another country." 
Ezekiel12:12 Their king will leave Jerusalem when it starts to become dark. He will carry his things on his shoulder as he goes out. They will dig a hole in the wall for him to go through. He will cover his face so that he cannot see the land. 
Ezekiel12:13 I will throw my net over him and I will catch him in my trap. I will take him to Babylon, in the land of the Chaldeans. But he will not see that land. He will die there." 
Ezekiel12:14 I will cause all his officers and soldiers to run away in different directions. Then their enemies will chase after them, to kill them with their swords." 
Ezekiel12:15 I will send the people away from their homes to other countries. They will have to live among foreign people. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel12:16 But I will save a few of them. War, famine and disease will not kill all of them. When they live among those other nations, they will realize that they have done many disgusting things. And they will know that I am the Lord.’" 
Ezekiel12:17 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel12:18 ‘Son of man, shake with fear while you eat your food or you drink your water." 
Ezekiel12:19 Then say to the people of Israel, “This is what the Almighty Lord says about the people who live in Jerusalem and in all the land of Israel: They will be afraid while they eat their food. They will shake with fear when they drink their water. An enemy will destroy their land so that nothing remains in it. This will happen because all the people who live there have done violent things." 
Ezekiel12:20 The towns where people live will become heaps of stones. An enemy will destroy the whole land. Then you will know that I am the Lord.” ’ 
Ezekiel12:21 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel12:22 ‘Son of man, you have this proverb in the land of Israel: “A long time passes and visions never truly happen.”" 
Ezekiel12:23 But you must say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will soon stop you from saying the words of that proverb.” Instead, say to them “The time will soon be here when every vision will truly happen." 
Ezekiel12:24 Israel's people will no longer have visions that are false. Nobody will prophesy things that deceive people. 
Ezekiel12:25 But I, the Lord, will speak. Whatever I say will certainly happen. It will happen very soon. Understand this, you people who refuse to obey me. I will do this while you are still alive. I will do all the things that I have said. That is what the Almighty Lord says.” ’" 
Ezekiel12:26 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel12:27 ‘Son of man, listen to what Israel's people are saying about you! They say, “The things that you see in your vision will not happen for many years. It will be a long time before his messages become true.”" 
Ezekiel12:28 So say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will not wait any longer to do what I have said. I will do everything that I have told you. That is what the Almighty Lord says.” ’" 
Ezekiel13:1 Then the Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel13:2 ‘Son of man, speak my message to warn Israel's prophets. They are prophesying but they teach only their own ideas. Say to them, “Listen to this message from the Lord." 
Ezekiel13:3 This is what the Almighty Lord says: Terrible trouble will come to those foolish prophets. They have not seen any vision from me but they tell people their own ideas. 
Ezekiel13:4 People of Israel, your prophets have become like wild dogs that live among heaps of stones." 
Ezekiel13:5 They have not helped you to mend the broken walls of your city. The walls will not be strong enough to keep Israel's people safe on the day of the. That is when I will allow your enemies to attack you. 
Ezekiel13:6 The visions that these prophets see are false. They tell lies about what will happen. They say, ‘The Lord says this,’ when I have not sent them with any message. But they still think that what they say will really happen." 
Ezekiel13:7 Yes, you prophets have seen false visions. You tell lies when you say, ‘The Lord says this.’ You say that, but I have not spoken any message to you!" 
Ezekiel13:8 So this is what I, the Almighty Lord, say to them: I am now your enemy because of your lies. You deceive people when you tell them what will happen. Yes, I have become your enemy. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel13:9 I will punish the prophets who see false visions and who tell lies. They will not be among the leaders of my people. They will not be on the list of people who are true Israelites. They will not even return to the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Almighty Lord. 
Ezekiel13:10 Those prophets have deceived my people. They say that there will be peace. But there is no peace for my people. They are like men who build a wall without any mortar. They paint it white to make it look nice. 
Ezekiel13:11 So tell those prophets that their paint is useless. The wall will soon fall down. There will be a lot of rain, hail and strong winds that knock it down." 
Ezekiel13:12 After the wall has fallen down, people will say, ‘That white paint was useless!’" 
Ezekiel13:13 So this is what I, the Almighty Lord, say: Because I am angry with you, I will send strong winds to destroy your wall. I will send a lot of rain and hail." 
Ezekiel13:14 I will break down your wall with its white paint. I will knock it down to the ground and leave only its foundation. It will fall on you and it will destroy you. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel13:15 I will show you that I am very angry. I will destroy the wall and the prophets who painted it white. Then I will say to you, ‘The wall is no longer there. The prophets who painted it are no longer alive." 
Ezekiel13:16 They were prophets of Israel who told lies. They promised that Jerusalem would have peace. But there was really no peace.’ That is what the Almighty Lord says.” 
Ezekiel13:17 Now, son of man, you must warn the women among your people who use their own ideas to prophesy. Tell them my message to warn them." 
Ezekiel13:18 Say, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Terrible trouble will come to those women who make pieces of cloth which they say have magic power. People tie them around their arms and their heads. Those women want to have power over people's lives. They think they can have power over other people's lives but they themselves will be safe." 
Ezekiel13:19 You have made people give you a little bit of barley or bread to eat. That is how they pay you to insult my name! You tell lies to my people, and they listen to you! As a result, you cause people to die who do not deserve to die. And people who do not deserve to live continue to live." 
Ezekiel13:20 So this is what the Almighty Lord says to those women: I hate your pieces of cloth. You use them to catch people in traps, like you catch birds. But I will pull those cloths off your arms. Then the people that you like to catch will become free." 
Ezekiel13:21 I will pull the cloths off your heads. That will rescue my people from your power. You will no longer be able to catch them. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel13:22 You have used lies to make righteous people stop being strong. But I did not want to hurt those people. You have also helped wicked people to continue to do evil things. You did not want them to change and save their lives. 
Ezekiel13:23 So you women will not see any more false visions. You will no longer pretend that you know future events. I will rescue my people from your power. Then you will know that I am the Lord.” ’ 
Ezekiel14:1 Some of the leaders of Israel came to talk to me. They sat down in front of me. 
Ezekiel14:2 Then the Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel14:3 ‘Son of man, these men like to worship idols. They allow those idols to cause them to do wicked things. So I should not allow them to ask me anything." 
Ezekiel14:4 You must speak to them. Say, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: One of these men who like to worship idols may want to ask me something. Those men allow their idols to cause them to do wicked things. So if one of them goes to a prophet to find out something, I will give him an answer! I will give him the answer that he deserves because of his many idols!" 
Ezekiel14:5 Israel's people have turned away from me because of their idols. So I will give them an answer that will bring them back to worship me.” 
Ezekiel14:6 Say to Israel's people, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Turn back to me and stop worshipping idols. Stop doing the disgusting things that you have been doing.”" 
Ezekiel14:7 An Israelite or a foreigner who lives in Israel may not want to serve me. He may choose to worship idols and do wicked things. If anyone like that goes to a prophet to find out something from me, I will answer him. Yes, I myself, the Lord, will answer him!" 
Ezekiel14:8 I will be that person's enemy. I will punish him to make him an example to others. Other people will not respect him. I will not allow him to belong to my people. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel14:9 I will also punish the prophet himself if he gives a false message. I, the Lord, have deceived him to show that he is a fool. And I will punish him. I will remove him from among my people, Israel's people." 
Ezekiel14:10 I will punish both the prophet and the person who asked him for a message. They will both have the same punishment. 
Ezekiel14:11 I will do that to bring back Israel's people to serve me. They will not continue to make themselves unclean because of all their sins. They will be my people and I will be their God. That is what the Almighty Lord says.’ 
Ezekiel14:12 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel14:13 ‘Son of man, the people of a whole nation may choose not to obey me. Then I would punish them because of their sins. I would stop the people getting any food to eat. Then there would be a famine that kills both people and animals." 
Ezekiel14:14 If that happens, I would only save the righteous people who lived there. If men like Noah, Daniel and Job lived there, I would save them. But nobody else would escape. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel14:14 If that happens, I would only save the righteous people who lived there. If men like Noah, Daniel and Job lived there, I would save them. But nobody else would escape. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel14:14 If that happens, I would only save the righteous people who lived there. If men like Noah, Daniel and Job lived there, I would save them. But nobody else would escape. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel14:15 Or I might send wild animals to kill the people of that nation. Nobody would travel through that place. The wild animals would make it too dangerous to travel there. 
Ezekiel14:16 I promise you this, as surely as I live: if those three righteous men lived there, they would only save themselves. They could not even save the lives of their own children. The whole land would become an empty place. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel14:17 Or I might bring an enemy to attack that nation. I would say, “Soldiers with swords should destroy the whole land.” I would cause them to kill both people and animals." 
Ezekiel14:18 I promise you this, as surely as I live: if those three righteous men lived there, they would only save themselves. They could not even save the lives of their own children. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel14:19 Or I might punish that nation with a terrible disease. Because I am very angry with those people, I would cause people and animals to die in that place." 
Ezekiel14:20 I promise you this, as surely as I live: if Noah, Daniel and Job lived there, they would only save themselves because they are righteous people. They could not save the lives even of their own children. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel14:20 I promise you this, as surely as I live: if Noah, Daniel and Job lived there, they would only save themselves because they are righteous people. They could not save the lives even of their own children. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel14:20 I promise you this, as surely as I live: if Noah, Daniel and Job lived there, they would only save themselves because they are righteous people. They could not save the lives even of their own children. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel14:21 This is what the Almighty Lord says: It will be terrible for Jerusalem's people when I punish them in all these four ways. I will send enemy soldiers with swords. I will send famine. I will send wild animals. And I will send disease. That will cause both people and animals to die. 
Ezekiel14:22 But some people will still be alive. Some sons and daughters will come out from the city. They will come to you here in Babylon. You will see the way that those people have lived. You will see the things that they have done. Then you will not be upset that I have punished Jerusalem in all these ways. 
Ezekiel14:23 Yes, when you see what they are like, you will no longer be upset. You will know that I have punished the people of Jerusalem as they deserved. That is what the Almighty Lord says.’" 
Ezekiel15:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel15:2 ‘Son of man, the wood of a vine is no better than the wood of any other tree that grows in the forest." 
Ezekiel15:3 Nobody can use its wood to make anything that is useful. They cannot even make pegs to hang clothes on! 
Ezekiel15:4 You can throw it on a fire to make the fire burn. But after the fire has finished, only a useless black piece of vine remains." 
Ezekiel15:5 It was useless before you put it on the fire. It is even more useless after the fire has burnt it. You cannot make anything with it. 
Ezekiel15:6 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: Among the trees of the forest, I have provided the wood of vines to burn on a fire. In the same way, I will take the people of Jerusalem to punish them." 
Ezekiel15:7 I will become their enemy. They may have escaped from the fire once, but soon the fire will destroy them completely. When I punish them like that, then you will know that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel15:8 They have not served me faithfully. So I will destroy their land. That is what the Almighty Lord says.’ 
Ezekiel16:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel16:2 ‘Son of man, warn Jerusalem's people about the disgusting things that they do." 
Ezekiel16:3 Say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says to Jerusalem's people: You were born in the land of Canaan. That is where you came from. Your father was an Amorite and your mother was a Hittite." 
Ezekiel16:4 They did not take proper care of you on the day that you were born. They did not wash you properly. They did not cut your cord. They did not put salt or oil on your skin. They did not put cloths around you. 
Ezekiel16:5 Nobody was kind enough to do any of these things for you. Instead, they threw you out into a field. Nobody loved you on the day that you were born." 
Ezekiel16:6 Then I saw you as I went that way. You were lying there on the ground in your blood. You were trying to move. While you lay there, I said to you, ‘Stay alive.’" 
Ezekiel16:7 I made you grow well, like the plants in a field. You became tall and beautiful, like a bright jewel. Your breasts grew and your hair became long. But you still had no clothes to cover your bare body." 
Ezekiel16:8 Later, I saw you again as I went that way. I saw that you had become a woman who was old enough to marry. So I covered your bare body with my coat. I promised to marry you. I made a covenant with you so that you became my wife. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel16:9 Then I washed your body with water. I washed away the blood and I put sweet oil on your body. 
Ezekiel16:10 I put a beautiful dress on you. I put the best leather shoes on your feet. I dressed you with clothes made from linen and other expensive cloths. 
Ezekiel16:11 I put beautiful jewels on you. I put rings on your hands and a necklace around your neck. 
Ezekiel16:12 I put a gold ring in your nose. I put rings in your ears. And I put a beautiful crown on your head. 
Ezekiel16:13 I used gold and silver to make you beautiful. I gave you expensive clothes that were made of linen and other pretty cloth. I gave you good food to eat, flour, honey and olive oil. You became a very beautiful woman. You even became a queen." 
Ezekiel16:14 The people of other nations heard news about your beauty. That was because of all the good things that I had given you to make you very beautiful. That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Ezekiel16:15 But you trusted your beauty to give you what you wanted. Because you were famous, you lived like a prostitute. You had sex with any man that you liked. They all enjoyed your beautiful body." 
Ezekiel16:16 You used some of your clothes to give honour to idols. You made their altars beautiful. You had sex with those men there on your beautiful clothes. Those things should never happen! 
Ezekiel16:17 You took your beautiful gold and silver rings and your jewels. You used them to make images of male idols for yourself. You worshipped them instead of me. 
Ezekiel16:18 You put your beautiful clothes on them. You gave them my oil and my incense as an offering. 
Ezekiel16:19 You also offered to those idols the food that I had given to you, the good flour, the olive oil and the honey. You wanted to please your idols with sweet smells. Yes, that is what happened! That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel16:20 You also offered your sons and your daughters as sacrifices to those idols. They were my children too! But you offered them as food to your idols. Like a prostitute, you were not faithful to me." 
Ezekiel16:21 But you did an even worse thing. You killed my children. You offered them as sacrifices to idols! 
Ezekiel16:22 You forgot what you were like when I first found you. At that time you had no clothes to cover your bare body. You lay on the ground in your own blood. You did not remember this. Instead, you chose to do disgusting things and live as a prostitute." 
Ezekiel16:23 Terrible trouble will come to you! That is what the Almighty Lord says. You did even more wicked things than these. 
Ezekiel16:24 In the public places of every town you built huts to worship your idols. 
Ezekiel16:25 You built these high places at the end of every street. There you made your beauty a disgusting thing. You offered your body to anyone who went past. Everyone knew that you were a prostitute. 
Ezekiel16:26 You had sex with the Egyptians, who lived near to you. They were ready to have sex with you at any time. So you lived as a prostitute more and more and you made me very angry." 
Ezekiel16:27 So I decided to punish you. I took from you things that belonged to you. I gave your enemies, the Philistines, power over you. Even they were ashamed because of the disgusting things that you were doing." 
Ezekiel16:28 You had sex with the Assyrians, too. You wanted more and more sex! You sold yourself to them, but you still wanted more" 
Ezekiel16:29 You also had sex with the traders from Babylon. Like a prostitute, you sold yourself to more and more people. But they could still not make you happy." 
Ezekiel16:30 The Almighty Lord says this: Your mind no longer knows what is right. You do disgusting things, like a prostitute who is not ashamed." 
Ezekiel16:31 You built places to worship your idols on every street. You offered yourself to people, like a prostitute. But you did not want them to pay you anything, as a prostitute would do." 
Ezekiel16:32 You are like a wife who is not faithful. You want to have sex with strangers more than with your own husband! 
Ezekiel16:33 Prostitutes receive money when they have sex with someone. Instead, you give gifts to all the men who have sex with you. You pay them to come from many different places to have sex with you." 
Ezekiel16:34 Those men did not come and ask you to have sex with them. So you are different from other prostitutes. You paid money to those men. They did not pay money to you. So you are very different from those other women! 
Ezekiel16:35 So listen to the Lord 's message, you prostitute!" 
Ezekiel16:36 This is what the Almighty Lord says: You wanted to have sex with many men. You offered your bare body to them, like a prostitute. You have worshipped disgusting idols. You have killed your own children as sacrifices to those idols." 
Ezekiel16:37 So listen to me! I will bring all those men that you had sex with. You liked some of them and you hated others. I will bring all of them to stand around you. Then I will remove all your clothes and they will all see your completely bare body. 
Ezekiel16:38 I will punish you as you deserve, because you are an adulteress and a murderer. I am very angry with you because you have not been faithful to me. So my punishment will destroy you." 
Ezekiel16:39 I will put you under the power of those men that you gave yourself to. They will destroy the places that you built for your idols. They will remove all your clothes. They will take your beautiful jewels. Then they will leave you with nothing, completely bare." 
Ezekiel16:40 They will bring a crowd of people to attack you. They will throw stones at you. They will cut you in pieces with their swords. 
Ezekiel16:41 They will use fire to destroy your houses. Many women will watch while those people punish you. I will stop you from having sex as a prostitute. You will no longer pay men to have sex with you. 
Ezekiel16:42 I will continue to punish you until I am no longer angry with you. I will not be upset or angry any more. 
Ezekiel16:43 The Almighty Lord says this: I am punishing you as you deserve for all the things that you have done. You have forgotten how I helped you when you were young. You have done many disgusting things and you have also lived like a prostitute. 
Ezekiel16:44 Look! Everyone says that this proverb is true about you: A daughter will do the same things that her mother does. 
Ezekiel16:45 Yes, you are a true daughter of your mother! Your mother hated her husband and her children. And you are the same as your sisters too. They also hated their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite and your father was an Amorite." 
Ezekiel16:46 Your older sister was Samaria. She and her daughters lived north of you. Your younger sister was Sodom. She and her daughters lived south of you. 
Ezekiel16:47 You lived like them and you did all the same disgusting things that they did. But you quickly became even worse than them. 
Ezekiel16:48 Your sister Sodom and her daughters never did such wicked things as you and your daughters have done. That is true as surely as I live, says the Almighty Lord." 
Ezekiel16:49 Listen to me! This is the wicked thing that your sister Sodom did. She and her daughters were very proud. They had plenty of food to eat and they enjoyed life. But they did not help people who were poor and weak. 
Ezekiel16:50 They were proud and they did whatever they wanted to do. When I saw the disgusting things that they were doing, I removed them." 
Ezekiel16:51 Samaria's people did less than half as many sins as you have done. You have done many more disgusting things than they did. The many wicked things that you have done make your sisters seem righteous! 
Ezekiel16:52 So now you must accept that you are guilty. You have done such wicked things that your sisters think that they are good people. You have done much worse things than they ever did. I must punish you even more than I punished them. So you should be ashamed and you should accept your punishment. You have made your sisters seem to be righteous. 
Ezekiel16:53 But one day I will cause Sodom and her daughters to enjoy life again. I will also cause Samaria and her daughters to enjoy life again. And I will also do that for you, Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel16:54 You will be sorry and ashamed that you did such wicked things. Your sisters will be happy that their punishment was less than yours. 
Ezekiel16:55 Sodom and her daughters will become as happy as they were before. Samaria and her daughters will become as happy as they were before. And you and your daughters will also become as happy as you were before. 
Ezekiel16:56 In the days when you were proud of yourselves, you did not respect your sister Sodom." 
Ezekiel16:57 But now everyone can see how wicked you are. So the other nations around you laugh at you. The people of Syria and Philistia and the nations near to them all insult you. 
Ezekiel16:58 You must accept your punishment because of the disgusting things that you have done. You have not been faithful to me. That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Ezekiel16:59 This is what the Almighty Lord says: You have not done the things that you promised to do when I made a covenant with you. So I will punish you as you deserve. 
Ezekiel16:60 But I will remember the covenant that I made with you when you were still young. I will make that covenant strong and it will continue for ever. 
Ezekiel16:61 Then you will remember the wicked things that you have done and you will be ashamed. You will welcome again your sisters, Sodom and Samaria. I will make them like daughters for you. But they will not share in the same covenant that I make with you." 
Ezekiel16:62 I will cause the covenant that I make with you to be strong. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel16:63 I will forgive you for your sins so that you are no longer guilty. Then you will remember your sins. You will be too ashamed to say anything. That is what the Almighty Lord says.” ’ 
Ezekiel17:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel17:2 ‘Son of man, I want you to tell a story to Israel's people. It tells about them." 
Ezekiel17:3 Say to them, “The Almighty Lord says this: There was a great eagle that had strong wings. Its feathers were long and beautiful, with many colours. The eagle came to Lebanon and he took hold of the top of a cedar tree." 
Ezekiel17:4 He broke off the top branch of the tree. He took it to a country where there were many traders who buy and sell things. He planted the branch in a city there. 
Ezekiel17:5 The eagle also took a seed from Israel's land. He planted it in a good field, like a willow tree near to plenty of water." 
Ezekiel17:6 The seed made a plant that grew well. It became a vine that grew near to the ground. The vine's branches turned up towards the eagle. Its roots went down into the ground. The vine grew with many new branches and leaves. 
Ezekiel17:7 There was also another great eagle. It had strong wings and many feathers. Now the vine turned its roots and its branches towards this eagle. It wanted to get more water in the ground where it was growing. 
Ezekiel17:8 But the vine was already growing in a good field where there was plenty of water. It could grow very well in that place, with new branches. It could become a beautiful vine and make grapes there.”" 
Ezekiel17:9 Then say to Israel's people, “The Almighty Lord says this: Do you think that the vine will continue to grow well? No, the first eagle will surely pull its roots out of the ground! He will destroy its grapes. All its leaves and branches will become dry and die. It would be easy to pull it out of the ground. It would not need a strong man or a large army to do that." 
Ezekiel17:10 Yes, the plant is in the ground, but will it continue to grow? When the hot wind from the east blows on it, it will become completely dry. It will die in the same good field where it had been growing.” ’" 
Ezekiel17:11 Then the Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel17:12 ‘Israel's people have turned against me. Say to them, “Surely you must understand the meaning of this story.” Then say to them, “Listen! The king of Babylon came to Jerusalem. He took away Israel's king and his officers. He took them with him as his prisoners to Babylon." 
Ezekiel17:13 He made an agreement with one man from the king of Israel's family. He made that man promise to serve Babylon's king. Then he could rule as king in Jerusalem. The king of Babylon also took away the leaders of Jerusalem as his prisoners. 
Ezekiel17:14 He wanted to make their kingdom weak. He did not want it to become strong enough to fight against him. He wanted them to obey his agreement with him. 
Ezekiel17:15 But the man from the king's family did turn against the king of Babylon. He sent his officers with a message to Egypt. He asked them to send a large army with horses to save Jerusalem. But that will not help him to be safe! He did not obey his agreement with the king of Babylon, so he will not escape!" 
Ezekiel17:16 I promise you this, as surely as I live, says the Almighty Lord. The man that the king of Babylon made king in Jerusalem will die! He will die in Babylon because he did not obey the agreement he had made with the king of Babylon. He thought that his promise was not important." 
Ezekiel17:17 The king of Egypt has a great army and many soldiers. But he still will not be able to help him to fight against Babylon's army. Babylon's soldiers will build heaps of earth against Jerusalem's walls. They will attack the walls and go into the city. They will kill many people in Jerusalem. 
Ezekiel17:18 Judah's king did not obey his agreement with the king of Babylon. He had promised to serve Babylon's king but instead he turned against him. He did not do what he had promised to do, so he will not escape." 
Ezekiel17:19 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: I promise you this, as surely as I live. I will certainly punish Judah's king for what he has done. He did not respect the promise that he made in my name. He did not obey the agreement that he made." 
Ezekiel17:20 I will throw a net over him and I will catch him in my trap. I will take him to Babylon and I will judge him there. I will punish him because he was not faithful to me. 
Ezekiel17:21 All the brave soldiers in his army will die in the battle. The soldiers who escape will run away in all directions. Then you will know that I, the Lord, have spoken this message." 
Ezekiel17:22 The Almighty Lord says this: I myself will take a new branch from the top of a tall cedar tree. I will break off one of its small fresh branches. Then I will plant it on the top of a high mountain. 
Ezekiel17:23 I will plant it on a high mountain in Israel. There it will grow and make branches and fruit. It will become a beautiful cedar tree. Many kinds of birds will live under the tree's branches. They will be safe in its shadow. 
Ezekiel17:24 Then all the trees of the forest will know that I am the Lord. I cause tall trees to fall down. I cause small trees to grow tall. I cause green trees to become dry. I cause dry trees to make fresh leaves. I, the Lord, have said this and I will surely do it.” ’" 
Ezekiel18:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel18:2 ‘You say this proverb about Israel: “The fathers have eaten bitter fruit, but it causes their children's teeth to hurt.” Why do you say that?" 
Ezekiel18:3 Now I, the Lord God, tell you this: You will no longer say that proverb in Israel!" 
Ezekiel18:4 Everyone who lives belong to me. I have authority over the life of the father and over the life of the son. It is the people who do wrong things who will die because of their sins. 
Ezekiel18:5 There may be a truly good man who does what is right and fair. 
Ezekiel18:6 He does not go up the mountains and eat the food of idols. He does not pray to the idols that other Israelites worship. He does not have sex with another man's wife. He does not have sex with a woman when she is unclean. 
Ezekiel18:7 He is not cruel to other people. When he lends money to someone, he gives back anything that he has taken as a guarantee. He does not take things that belong to other people. He gives food to hungry people. He gives clothes to poor people." 
Ezekiel18:8 He does not lend money to someone and then ask to receive more money back. He refuses to do anything that is wrong. He helps people in a way that is right and fair. 
Ezekiel18:9 He faithfully obeys my laws and my rules. A man like that is righteous. He will continue to live. That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Ezekiel18:10 But that man may have a son who is cruel and violent. He may kill other people. He may do those bad things that his father never did. 
Ezekiel18:11 He may go up the mountains and eat the food of idols. He might have sex with another man's wife. 
Ezekiel18:12 He might be cruel to people who are poor and weak. He might take things that belong to other people. He might not give back things that he took as a guarantee. He prays to idols. He does disgusting things. 
Ezekiel18:13 When he lends money to people, he wants them to pay back a lot more money to him. A man like that will not continue to live! He will certainly die, because he himself has done all these disgusting things. He is guilty, so he himself must die as his punishment." 
Ezekiel18:14 But this wicked man might have a son himself. The son sees all the sins that his father has done. He thinks about them. Then he decides that he will not live as his father has lived. 
Ezekiel18:15 He does not go up the mountains to eat the food of idols. He does not pray to the idols that other Israelites worship. He does not have sex with another man's wife. 
Ezekiel18:16 He is not cruel to anyone. He does not keep anything that he has taken from someone as a guarantee. He does not rob other people. But he gives food to hungry people. He gives clothes to poor people. 
Ezekiel18:17 He refuses to do anything that is wrong. When he lends money to people, he does not take more money back from them. He obeys my rules and my laws. This man will certainly continue to live. He will not die because of his father's sins." 
Ezekiel18:18 But his father will die as punishment for his own sins. He cheated people. He robbed people. He did evil things among his own people. So he will die because of his own sins. 
Ezekiel18:19 You should not say, “Surely the son should receive punishment because of his father's sins.” If the son does what is good and right, and he obeys my laws and my rules, he will continue to live." 
Ezekiel18:20 It is the person who does wrong things who will die. A son will not receive punishment because of his father's sins. And a father will not receive punishment because of his son's sins. Righteous people will receive the good things that they deserve for the good things that they have done. But wicked people will receive the punishment that they deserve for the wicked things that they have done. 
Ezekiel18:21 But a wicked person might turn away from the sins that he has been doing. He might decide to obey my laws and do things that are right and good. If he does that, he will certainly continue to live. He will not die as his punishment." 
Ezekiel18:22 I would no longer say that he is guilty because of the sins that he has done. Instead, he will continue to live, because he has done things that are right." 
Ezekiel18:23 It does not make me happy when a wicked person dies. I want wicked people to stop doing wicked things. Then I am happy because they will continue to live. That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Ezekiel18:24 A righteous person may stop doing things that are good and right. He may start to do the same disgusting things that wicked people do. Then he will not continue to live. I will not remember any of the good things that he did. Instead, I will punish him because of the sins that he has done. He has not been faithful to me, so he will die." 
Ezekiel18:25 But you say, “The Lord is not doing what is right!” So listen to me, Israel's people. It is you who are not doing what is right! It is not me!" 
Ezekiel18:26 If a righteous person stops doing good things and he does bad things instead, he will die. Yes, he will die because of the wrong things that he has done." 
Ezekiel18:27 And if a wicked person stops doing wicked things and he does things that are right, he will continue to live." 
Ezekiel18:28 That wicked person realized that he was doing bad things. So he turned away from his sins. Because of that he will certainly continue to live. He will not die. 
Ezekiel18:29 But you, Israel's people, say, “The Lord is not doing what is right!” Do you really think that is true? No, you are the people who do not do what is right, you Israelites!" 
Ezekiel18:30 The Almighty Lord says this to you, Israel's people: I will judge each of you as you deserve for the way that you live. So change how you live! Turn away from all the wicked things that you do. Then your sins will not finally destroy you." 
Ezekiel18:31 Stop doing all the sins that you have been doing. Instead, think with new thoughts. Live with a new spirit inside you. You do not need to die, Israel's people!" 
Ezekiel18:32 It does not make me happy when anyone has to die. Turn away from your sins so that you continue to live! That is what the Almighty Lord says.’ 
Ezekiel19:1 ‘Sing this sad funeral song about the leaders of Israel. 
Ezekiel19:2 Say this: “Your mother was like a great lion among the other lions. She lay among strong young lions. She helped her children to grow safely. 
Ezekiel19:3 She taught one of her children to catch animals for food. As he grew, he started to eat people." 
Ezekiel19:4 The people of other nations heard about him. They dug a hole and they caught him in their trap. They put hooks in him and they took him to Egypt. 
Ezekiel19:5 His mother waited for him to return home. He did not come and she no longer had any hope. She helped another of her sons to become a strong young lion. 
Ezekiel19:6 He grew to be strong among the other lions. He learned to catch wild animals and to eat them. He also learned to eat people. 
Ezekiel19:7 He attacked their strong buildings and he destroyed their cities. When he roared, the noise frightened everyone in the land." 
Ezekiel19:8 Men from other nations near there came to attack him. They threw a net over him. They caught him in their trap. 
Ezekiel19:9 They tied hooks around his neck. They took him to the king of Babylon. There they put him in prison to stop him roaring. The people on the hills of Israel could not hear his voice any longer. 
Ezekiel19:10 Your mother was like a vine that was growing near a stream. It grew well because there was plenty of water there. It made many branches and it had a lot of fruit. 
Ezekiel19:11 Its branches became big and strong. They were strong enough to make a ruler's stick. The vine grew taller than all the other trees around it. Everyone could see that it was very tall and strong. 
Ezekiel19:12 But the Lord became angry with that vine. He pulled up its roots and he threw it down to the ground. The east wind made it dry and destroyed its fruit. Its strong branches broke and they became useless. Fire destroyed them. 
Ezekiel19:13 Now that vine is growing in a desert. It is in a hot, dry place where there is no water." 
Ezekiel19:14 Fire started to burn its strongest branch. From there the fire destroyed its other branches and its fruit. No strong branch remained in the vine. Now there was nothing that could make a ruler's stick.” This is a funeral song. It tells a very sad story.’ 
Ezekiel20:1 On the tenth day of the fifth month some of Israel's leaders came to me. That was in the seventh year that we had been prisoners in Babylon. The leaders sat in front of me. They wanted me to ask for a message from the Lord. 
Ezekiel20:2 Then the Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel20:3 ‘Son of man, speak to the leaders of Israel. Tell them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: You say that you want a message from me. I promise you this, as surely as I live: I will not allow you to come to me like that.” " 
Ezekiel20:4 Son of man, you must warn them. Are you ready to do that? Make them remember all the disgusting things that their ancestors did." 
Ezekiel20:5 Say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: On the day that I chose Israel's people to belong to me, I made a promise to all Jacob's descendants. In the land of Egypt, I showed them who I am. I promised them, ‘I am the Lord your God.’" 
Ezekiel20:6 On that day, I promised them that I would bring them out of Egypt. I promised to take them to a land that I had chosen for them. That land would give them plenty of good food and drink, enough for everyone. It was more beautiful than any other land." 
Ezekiel20:7 I said to them, ‘You must each destroy the disgusting idols that you worship. Those are the idols of Egypt and they cause you to be unclean. Remember that I am the Lord your God.’" 
Ezekiel20:8 But your ancestors did not obey me. They refused to listen to me. None of them destroyed their disgusting idols. They continued to worship the idols of Egypt. So I decided to show them that I was very angry. I said that I would punish them there in Egypt. 
Ezekiel20:9 But I did not want the people of other nations to insult my name. I had promised Israel's people that I would bring them out of Egypt. The nations near where the Israelites were living knew this. 
Ezekiel20:10 So I brought my people out of Egypt. I led them into the wilderness. 
Ezekiel20:11 I gave them my laws and my commands. Anyone who obeyed them would enjoy a good life. 
Ezekiel20:12 I also gave them Sabbath days when they would rest. It would help them to remember that they belong to me. They would know that I, the Lord, have made them my holy people." 
Ezekiel20:13 But when Israel's people were in the wilderness, they turned against me. They did not obey my laws or my commands. (But anyone who did obey them would enjoy a good life.) They did not obey my rules for Sabbath days. So I was very angry with them. I decided to destroy them there in the wilderness." 
Ezekiel20:14 But I did not want the people of other nations to insult my name. They had seen me bring Israel's people out of Egypt. 
Ezekiel20:15 So I made a strong promise to my people in the wilderness. I said that I would not take them to the land that I had chosen for them. It was a very beautiful land with plenty of food and drink for everyone. 
Ezekiel20:16 I refused to take them there because they had not obeyed my laws and my commands. They did not obey my rules for Sabbath days. Instead, they liked to worship their idols." 
Ezekiel20:17 But I chose to be kind to them. I did not completely destroy them in the wilderness. 
Ezekiel20:18 I said to their children in the wilderness, ‘Do not live in the bad way that your fathers did. Do not obey their rules. Do not worship their idols and make yourselves unclean." 
Ezekiel20:19 Remember that I am the Lord your God. So be careful to obey my laws and my commands. 
Ezekiel20:20 Make Sabbath days special to show that you belong to me. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God.’ 
Ezekiel20:21 But their children also turned against me. They were not careful to obey my laws and my commands. (But anyone who obeyed them would enjoy a good life.) They did not obey my rules about Sabbath days. So I was very angry with them. I was ready to destroy them there in the wilderness. 
Ezekiel20:22 But I did not want the people of other nations to insult my name. They had seen me bring Israel's people out of Egypt. So I could not destroy my people. 
Ezekiel20:23 There in the wilderness I made a strong promise to them. I promised to send them to many different places where they would live among other nations. 
Ezekiel20:24 This was because they had not obeyed my laws and my commands. They had not obeyed my rules about Sabbath days. Instead, they worshipped the same idols that their ancestors worshipped." 
Ezekiel20:25 So I let them obey rules that were not good. They were laws that would not help them to enjoy a good life. 
Ezekiel20:26 I let them make themselves unclean because of the offerings that they made. They burned their firstborn children in fire as sacrifices. I did that to make them afraid. I wanted them to know that I am the Lord.” 
Ezekiel20:27 So, son of man, you must speak to Israel's people. Tell them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Your ancestors insulted me when they did not serve me faithfully." 
Ezekiel20:28 I took them to the land which I had promised to give to them. But when they were there, they continued to offer sacrifices to idols. They did this on every high hill or under every green tree that they saw! They burned sweet incense and they poured out wine as offerings in all those places. That made me very angry." 
Ezekiel20:29 I asked them, ‘Why do you go to these high places?’ ” (That is why people still call them “high places”.)" 
Ezekiel20:30 So say this to Israel's people. “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Will you continue to make yourselves unclean in the way that your ancestors did? You are not faithful to me. Instead, you worship disgusting idols." 
Ezekiel20:31 You make yourselves unclean when you offer sacrifices to your idols. You burn your sons in fire as offerings. You still continue to do that! So should I allow you to come to me for help? I promise you this, as surely as I live: I will not allow you to come to me! That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel20:32 You think, ‘We want to live like the people of other nations and clans. They worship idols that are made from wood and stone.’ But these thoughts will never happen." 
Ezekiel20:33 The Almighty Lord says, I promise you this, as surely as I live: I will use my great power and authority to rule you as your King. You will know how angry I am!" 
Ezekiel20:34 I will bring you back from the nations where I sent you to live. I will bring you back from all those different places. I will use my great power to do this and you will know that I am very angry with you. 
Ezekiel20:35 I will bring you to a wilderness with other nations all around it. I will meet with you there and I will show that you are guilty. 
Ezekiel20:36 I judged your fathers in the wilderness when they came out of Egypt. I will punish you in the same way. That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Ezekiel20:37 I will count you one by one, as a shepherd counts his sheep. I will cause you to obey the rules of my covenant with you." 
Ezekiel20:38 I will remove from among you those who refuse to obey me. I will bring them out from the country where they have been living. But they will not go into the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel20:39 Israel's people, this is what the Almighty Lord says to you: Now, every one of you, go to serve your idols! But after that, you will listen to me. You will no longer insult my holy name. You will no longer give gifts to your idols." 
Ezekiel20:40 All of Israel's people will serve me on my holy mountain, Israel's great mountain. There I will accept them as my people. That is what the Almighty Lord says. I will receive your offerings, your gifts and all your holy sacrifices." 
Ezekiel20:41 I will bring you home from the nations and all the places where you have been living. Then I will welcome you, like sweet incense that pleases me. When I am among you, I will show all the other nations that I am holy." 
Ezekiel20:42 I will bring you into the land of Israel. That is the land that I promised to give to your ancestors. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel20:43 You will remember all the wrong things that you did which made you unclean. You will be ashamed of yourselves because of all the evil things that you have done. 
Ezekiel20:44 At that time, I will help you. I will not punish you as you deserve for your wicked and evil acts. Instead, I will do things that bring honour to my name. Then, Israel's people, you will know that I am the Lord. That is what the Almighty Lord says.” ’" 
Ezekiel20:45 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel20:46 ‘Son of man, look towards the south. Speak my message to the people there. Warn the forests in the dry land of the south." 
Ezekiel20:47 Say to those forests, “Listen to this message from the Lord. This is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I will start a fire to burn you. The fire will destroy all the green trees and all the dry trees. Nobody will be able to stop that fire. From the dry land in the south, all the way to the north, the fire will burn everything." 
Ezekiel20:48 Everyone will see that I, the Lord, started the fire. Nobody will be able to stop it burning.” ’" 
Ezekiel20:49 Then I said, ‘Almighty Lord, “The people are already saying that my stories make them confused.” ’" 
Ezekiel21:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel21:2 ‘Son of man, look towards Jerusalem. Speak about the things in my holy place that are wrong. Speak my message to warn the people of Israel." 
Ezekiel21:3 Say to them, “This is what the Lord says: I am now your enemy. I will take my sword in my hand. I will use it to kill both righteous people and wicked people." 
Ezekiel21:4 I will remove righteous people and wicked people from among you. So I will use my sword to attack everyone in the land, from the north to the south." 
Ezekiel21:5 Then all the people will know that I am the Lord. I am the one who is punishing them with my sword. And I will not put it back in its place.” 
Ezekiel21:6 So now, son of man, cry aloud. Let the people see how sad and upset you are." 
Ezekiel21:7 They will ask you, “Why are you so sad?” Then you will say, “I am sad because of the news that will soon come. Every one of you will be very afraid. Your hands will be weak and your knees will shake.” You can be sure that this will happen very soon. That is what the Almighty Lord says.’" 
Ezekiel21:8 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel21:9 ‘Son of man, speak my message to the people. Say, “This is what the Lord says: Look at my sword! It is sharp and it shines brightly." 
Ezekiel21:10 It is sharp and it is ready to kill people. It shines as bright as lightning! Should we trust in the power of our king? No! This sword does not respect any kingdom. 
Ezekiel21:11 Now it is sharp and it shines. It is ready for someone to take in their hand. It is ready for the killer to use it.” 
Ezekiel21:12 Cry aloud, son of man! This sword is ready to attack my people. It will attack all the leaders of Israel. It will destroy my people and their leaders. Because of that, show that you are very upset." 
Ezekiel21:13 I am ready to test my people. My sword does not respect the power of any king. So my people will not escape punishment. That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Ezekiel21:14 So speak my message to warn my people, son of man. Then clap your hands together. My sword must attack them many times. It is ready to kill many people. It will attack them from all directions." 
Ezekiel21:15 So people will shake with fear. Many of them will fall down. My sword is ready to kill them at every gate of the city. It shines like lightning. It is ready to kill! 
Ezekiel21:16 My sword, attack quickly on your right side! Now turn and attack on your left side! Attack in every direction that you turn!" 
Ezekiel21:17 Then I, too, will clap my hands together. Finally, my anger will finish. I, the Lord, have spoken.’" 
Ezekiel21:18 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel21:19 ‘Son of man, make a mark on two roads for the king of Babylon to follow with his army. Both these roads must start from the same country. Put a sign at the place where the two roads go in separate directions." 
Ezekiel21:20 Show the two places that the roads go to. One road goes to Rabbah, the big city of the Ammonites. The other road goes to Judah and its strong city, Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel21:21 The king of Babylon will arrive at the place where the road goes in separate directions. He will try to decide which way to go. He will use magic to ask his gods to tell him. He will shake arrows in his hands. He will pray to his idols. He will look at the livers of animals. 
Ezekiel21:22 The arrow in his right hand shows him that he should go to Jerusalem. He will command his army to go and kill the people there. His soldiers will use heavy pieces of wood to knock down the walls and gates of the city. They will shout as they attack the city. They will build heaps of earth against the city's walls. 
Ezekiel21:23 The people in Jerusalem had promised to serve the king of Babylon. So they think that he will not attack them. But he will accuse them about the wrong things that they have done. Because of that he will take them as his prisoners. 
Ezekiel21:24 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: You have shown everyone that you are guilty of many sins. Everything that you do shows your sins very clearly. Because you are guilty, your enemies will take you as their prisoners." 
Ezekiel21:25 I say this to you, wicked king of Israel. The time for your final punishment has now arrived." 
Ezekiel21:26 This is what the Almighty Lord says: Take off the special cloth from the king's head. Remove his crown! Everything will change! Give honour to humble people! Make proud people become ashamed! 
Ezekiel21:27 I will cause your city to become a heap of stones. I will destroy the kingdom. This will happen when my chosen man comes. I have chosen him to punish the city. Then I will give him authority over the city, because it belongs to him." 
Ezekiel21:28 You, son of man, must speak my message about the Ammonites. They have insulted Israel. This is what the Almighty Lord says: A sword is ready to destroy them. It shines brightly like lightning and it is ready to kill." 
Ezekiel21:29 Their visions about the battle have deceived them. What they think will happen is only lies. The sword will punish wicked people with death. The time for their final punishment has now arrived. 
Ezekiel21:30 Now put the sword back in its place! I will judge you in your own land, in the place where you were born." 
Ezekiel21:31 I will punish you very strongly, because I am so angry with you. I will put you under the power of cruel men who know how to destroy people." 
Ezekiel21:32 You will be like wood that helps a fire to burn. You will die a violent death in your own land. Nobody will remember you any more. I, the Lord, have said this.’" 
Ezekiel22:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel22:2 ‘Son of man, you must warn the people in this city about their punishment. The people are murderers. They have done many disgusting things. Are you ready to tell them that?" 
Ezekiel22:3 Say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Because you murder people, you have caused your punishment to come. You make idols for yourselves, and that has made you unclean." 
Ezekiel22:4 Because you have murdered people and you have made disgusting idols, you are now guilty. This has brought the time of your punishment very near. Your years of power have come to an end. I will cause the people of other nations to laugh at you. They will all insult you." 
Ezekiel22:5 The people of countries that are near to you will laugh at you. Those who live far away will also laugh at you. You will no longer receive any honour because your city is full of trouble. 
Ezekiel22:6 Each ruler of Israel that lives in you, Jerusalem, has been a murderer. Each one has used his power to kill people." 
Ezekiel22:7 The people in the city do not respect their parents. They have been cruel to the foreigners who live among you. They have cheated widows and children who have no family. 
Ezekiel22:8 You have not respected my holy things. You have not made my Sabbath days special. 
Ezekiel22:9 There are men among you who tell lies so that they can kill other people. There are people who eat the food of idols on the mountains. They do disgusting things among you. 
Ezekiel22:10 Some men have sex with their father's wife. Some men have sex with a woman at the time when she bleeds each month and she is unclean. 
Ezekiel22:11 One man has sex with another man's wife. Another man has sex with his son's wife. Another man among you has sex with the daughter of his own father. These are disgusting things to do. 
Ezekiel22:12 People among you accept bribes to kill somebody. When some of you lend money to people, you make them pay more money back to you. Some of you use your power to make people give you money. You people of Jerusalem have forgotten me. That is what the Lord says." 
Ezekiel22:13 Listen to me! I will show you that I am angry with you. You have cheated people and taken their money. You have murdered people who live among you. 
Ezekiel22:14 When I have punished you, you will no longer feel brave or strong. I, the Lord, have said what I will do. And I will do it." 
Ezekiel22:15 I will send you away to live among many other nations. I will stop you doing evil things. 
Ezekiel22:16 All the other nations will see that you are useless. Then you will know that I am the Lord.” ’ 
Ezekiel22:17 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel22:18 ‘Son of man, Israel's people have become like dirt to me. They are like useless bits of metal that remain after silver is made pure in a hot oven." 
Ezekiel22:19 So this is what the Lord God says: All of you have become like useless dirt. So listen to me! I will bring you all together into the middle of Jerusalem. 
Ezekiel22:20 It will be like a hot oven that I put you in. It will be like an oven where men cause different metals to melt to make them pure. Because I am very angry with you, I will bring you into the city to punish you there." 
Ezekiel22:21 I will put you in my oven, Jerusalem. And I will burn you with my hot anger." 
Ezekiel22:22 My great anger will cause you to melt, like men cause silver to melt in a hot oven. Then you will know that I am the Lord. And you will know that I have punished you with my anger.’" 
Ezekiel22:23 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel22:24 ‘Son of man, say to the land of Israel, “I am angry with you. Because of that, you will receive no rain to make you clean.”" 
Ezekiel22:25 The rulers in the land hurt people, like strong lions that tear animals in pieces. They use their power to destroy people. They take for themselves riches and valuable things that belong to other people. They have killed many men so that there are now many widows in the land." 
Ezekiel22:26 The priests in the land do not obey my Law. They do not respect my holy things. They do not think that holy things are different from ordinary things. They say that unclean things and clean things are the same. They refuse to make my Sabbath days special. Because of this, people do not give me any honour." 
Ezekiel22:27 The officers in the land are like wolves that catch other animals and tear them into pieces. They use their power to murder people so that they can take their money for themselves. 
Ezekiel22:28 The prophets in the land give false messages. They say that bad things are good. They see false visions. They tell lies about what will happen. They say, “This is what the Almighty Lord says.” But I, the Lord, have not spoken to them." 
Ezekiel22:29 The people in the land make people give them money. They rob people. They are cruel to poor people and to weak people. They cheat foreign people who live among them. They do not allow them to have justice. 
Ezekiel22:30 I looked among the people for a man who would make the land safe. He would make it a good, strong place again, with nothing bad in it. Then I would not destroy it. But I could not find anyone like that." 
Ezekiel22:31 So I will certainly destroy them. I will punish them with my great anger, like a fire that burns them completely. I will now punish them as they deserve for their sins. That is what the Almighty Lord says.’" 
Ezekiel23:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel23:2 ‘Son of man, there were two sisters who had the same mother." 
Ezekiel23:3 They were prostitutes in Egypt, from the time that they were both young women. Men touched their breasts and made love to them." 
Ezekiel23:4 The older sister was called Oholah. The younger one was called Oholibah. In this story, Oholah is Samaria. Oholibah is Jerusalem. They became my wives, and later they gave birth to sons and daughters for me." 
Ezekiel23:5 Oholah was my wife but she continued to live as a prostitute. She wanted men from Assyria to be her lovers. 
Ezekiel23:6 Her lovers were soldiers who wore blue clothes. Some of them were army officers and leaders. They were all strong young men. Some of them rode on horses. 
Ezekiel23:7 Oholah gave herself to them as a prostitute. She had sex with all the important young men of Assyria. She did these disgusting things with anyone that she wanted. She worshipped their idols and she made herself unclean. 
Ezekiel23:8 She had lived as a prostitute in Egypt when she was young. Men had sex with her. They touched her breasts and they enjoyed her body for themselves. She continued to do that with the Assyrian men. 
Ezekiel23:9 She wanted the Assyrian men to be her lovers. Because of that I put her under their power. 
Ezekiel23:10 They removed her clothes to make her ashamed. They took away her sons and daughters. They attacked her and they killed her. Because of her punishment, women everywhere talked about her." 
Ezekiel23:11 Oholah's sister, Oholibah, saw this, but she did even worse things than her sister. She wanted other lovers even more than her sister did." 
Ezekiel23:12 She, too, wanted Assyrian men to be her lovers. They were army officers and leaders. They were brave soldiers in beautiful clothes. Some of them rode on horses. They were all strong young men." 
Ezekiel23:13 I saw that she was living in the same way that her sister had done. Like her sister, she made herself unclean." 
Ezekiel23:14 But Oholibah did even worse things, as a prostitute does. She saw pictures of men on the walls. They were bright red pictures that people had made of Babylonian men." 
Ezekiel23:15 The men wore belts around their bodies. They wore large cloths around their heads. They looked like Babylonian army officers who came from Chaldea. 
Ezekiel23:16 When Oholibah saw these pictures, she wanted the men to be her lovers. She sent messages to them in Babylonia." 
Ezekiel23:17 The Babylonian soldiers came to have sex with her. They did many disgusting things with her so that she was unclean. After they had done this to her, she became upset. She turned away from them." 
Ezekiel23:18 She was not ashamed to have sex with many other men. Everyone knew that she lived as a prostitute. So I was very upset. I turned away from her, as I had turned away from her sister." 
Ezekiel23:19 But she wanted more and more men to be her lovers. She remembered how she had lived as a prostitute in Egypt when she was a young woman. 
Ezekiel23:20 She wanted those strong men to be her lovers. They had sex in a strong way, like donkeys or horses." 
Ezekiel23:21 Yes, Oholibah, you thought about the disgusting ways that you had sex when you were young. You wanted men to touch your breasts and make love to you as the Egyptian men had done." 
Ezekiel23:22 So this is what the Almighty Lord says to you, Oholibah: “Listen to me! I will cause your lovers to become angry with you. The lovers that you turned away from will come to attack you. I will bring them from every direction to attack you." 
Ezekiel23:23 The soldiers from Babylon and from Chaldea will come. Men from Pekod, Shoa and Koa will come. All the Assyrian soldiers will come with them. They will be beautiful young men, army officers, leaders and important men. They will all ride on horses." 
Ezekiel23:24 They will attack you with their weapons, their chariots and with a large army of soldiers. They will come together all around you, on every side. They will have different kinds of shields. They will wear helmets on their heads. I will give them authority to judge you. They will punish you in the way that they choose." 
Ezekiel23:25 You have not been faithful to me, so I am very angry with you. I will cause these men to punish you in cruel ways. They will cut off your noses and your ears. They will use their swords to kill any men who remain. They will take away your sons and daughters. Fire will destroy any of your people who remain." 
Ezekiel23:26 They will pull off your clothes. They will take away your beautiful jewels. 
Ezekiel23:27 That is how I will stop you living in a disgusting way. You will no longer live as a prostitute, in the way that you lived in Egypt. You will not want to live in that way again. You will not think about how you lived in Egypt any more.”" 
Ezekiel23:28 This is what the Almighty Lord says: “Listen! I will put you under the power of people that you hate. Those were the people that you turned away from because you were upset. 
Ezekiel23:29 They will be cruel to you. They will take away everything that you worked hard to get. When they leave you, you will have no clothes to wear. You will be ashamed. Everyone will see that you have lived as a prostitute and you have done disgusting things." 
Ezekiel23:30 I am punishing you in this way because you were not faithful to me. You wanted other nations to be your lovers. You became unclean because you worshipped their idols. 
Ezekiel23:31 You have lived in the same bad way that your sister lived. So I will punish you as I punished her.” 
Ezekiel23:32 This is what the Lord God says: “You will drink from the same cup of punishment that I gave to your sister. It is a cup that holds a lot of punishment. People will laugh at you and they will insult you. 
Ezekiel23:33 You will suffer very much. You will be drunk and very sad. The cup of your punishment will destroy you. Like your sister Samaria, it will cause you to come to an end." 
Ezekiel23:34 You will have to drink all the punishment that is in that cup! Then you will break the cup into pieces. You will cut your breasts to show that you are very upset. I, the Almighty Lord, have said this.”" 
Ezekiel23:35 This is what the Almighty Lord says: “You have forgotten me. You have not been faithful to me. You have lived as a prostitute and you have done disgusting things. So now you must receive the punishment that you deserve.” ’ 
Ezekiel23:36 The Lord said to me, ‘Son of man, you must judge Oholah and Oholibah. Warn them that they have done disgusting things." 
Ezekiel23:37 They have not been faithful to me. They have murdered people. They have worshipped idols. They have not been faithful to me as their husband. They have even offered their children as food to their idols. Those were my children that they burned with fire. 
Ezekiel23:38 They have also done these things against me: They made my holy place unclean. At the same time, they did not obey my rules for Sabbath days." 
Ezekiel23:39 They offered their sons as sacrifices to their idols. Then, on the same day, they came into my temple! That is how they made my own special house unclean." 
Ezekiel23:40 The two sisters sent messages to men in places far away. When the men came to visit them, the sisters washed themselves. Yes, you made your eyes beautiful with paint. You wore beautiful jewels." 
Ezekiel23:41 You sat on a beautiful bed with a table in front of it. On the table you put incense and olive oil that I had given to you. 
Ezekiel23:42 There was a crowd of happy men around them. They included men who came from the desert and who were drunk. They put rings on the sisters' hands and beautiful crowns on their heads. 
Ezekiel23:43 I said this about the woman who had become tired of having sex with so many men: “They will continue to have sex with her, as she is a prostitute.”" 
Ezekiel23:44 So the men had sex with her, as men have sex with prostitutes. That is how they had sex with Oholah and Oholibah, those two prostitutes." 
Ezekiel23:45 But good men will say that those women are guilty. They will punish them as they deserve, because they have not been faithful to me. They have also murdered people." 
Ezekiel23:46 This is what the Almighty Lord says: Bring an army to attack those women. Make them very afraid. Take away their valuable things. 
Ezekiel23:47 The army will throw stones at them and cut them with their swords. They will kill their sons and daughters. They will destroy their houses with fire. 
Ezekiel23:48 That is how I will stop the people of this land from doing disgusting things. All the women will see what has happened to Oholah and Oholibah. They will not do the same disgusting things themselves. 
Ezekiel23:49 And you, Oholah and Oholibah, will receive the punishment that you deserve. You have lived as prostitutes, and you have not been faithful to me. Instead, you have worshipped idols. So I will punish you. Then you will know that I am the Almighty Lord. ’" 
Ezekiel24:1 The Lord gave this message to me on the tenth day of the tenth month in the ninth year: 
Ezekiel24:2 ‘Son of man, remember this day. Write it down. On this day, the king of Babylon is starting to attack Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel24:3 Tell a story to these people who refuse to obey me. Say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Put the pot on the fire. Put it there now. Pour some water into the pot." 
Ezekiel24:4 Put the pieces of meat into it. Put in all the good pieces of meat. Put in the leg and the shoulder. Fill it with all the best bones. 
Ezekiel24:5 Use meat and bones from the best sheep. Put more wood on the fire under the pot. Cause the water in the pot to boil well. Cook the bones and the meat. 
Ezekiel24:6 This is what the Almighty Lord says: Terrible trouble will come to the city that is full of murderers! It is like a pot that has become dirty. Nobody has tried to clean it. Take out each piece of meat, one by one. No piece is special." 
Ezekiel24:7 You can see the blood of people that men killed in the city. It lies on the rocks where everyone can see it. Those murderers did not leave the blood on the ground, where dirt would hide it." 
Ezekiel24:8 I have put the blood on the rocks where everyone can see it. Nothing will be able to hide it. When I see it, I am very angry. I will punish the people of that city as they deserve." 
Ezekiel24:9 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: Terrible trouble will come to the city that is full of murderers! I will put more wood on the fire to destroy it. 
Ezekiel24:10 Yes, make a big heap of wood. Make the fire burn hot! Cook the meat well! Mix in some spices! Let the bones burn." 
Ezekiel24:11 Then put the empty pot on the coals of the fire. Make the pot very hot, so that its metal is bright red. Burn all the dirt to remove it. Make the pot clean again!" 
Ezekiel24:12 Yes, I have tried to make it clean. But the disgusting dirt is still there. So throw the pot and all its dirt on the fire!" 
Ezekiel24:13 The dirt on the pot shows the disgusting things that you do. I tried to remove those wicked things to make you clean, but you would not let me do that. So I will punish you until I am no longer angry with you. You will not be clean until that happens." 
Ezekiel24:14 I, the Lord have said what I will do. Now I will do it! The time for your punishment has come! I will not change my mind. I will not be kind to you. I will not be sorry for you. I will judge you as you deserve for the things that you have done. That is what the Almighty Lord says.” ’" 
Ezekiel24:15 The Lord gave me this message: 
Ezekiel24:16 ‘Son of man, I will suddenly take away from you the one person who makes you happy. But you must not weep. Do not let people see that you are sad." 
Ezekiel24:17 Cry inside yourself but do not cry aloud. Do not show that you are sad because someone has died. Do not remove the cloth from your head. Keep your shoes on your feet. Do not cover the lower part of your face. Do not eat the food that people eat at funerals.’ 
Ezekiel24:18 That morning I spoke to the people. In the evening of that day, my wife died. The next morning I did what the Lord had told me to do." 
Ezekiel24:19 Then the people said to me, ‘Please tell us why you are doing these things. What are you trying to show us?’" 
Ezekiel24:20 So I said to them, ‘The Lord gave this message to me:" 
Ezekiel24:21 Say to Israel's people, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I will now make my holy place become unclean. It is the place that makes you very proud. You love it because it is so beautiful. But now enemy soldiers will kill your sons and daughters that you left in Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel24:22 Then you will do the same things that I have done. You will not cover the lower part of your face. You will not eat special food that people eat at funerals. 
Ezekiel24:23 You will still wear your cloths on your heads. You will wear your shoes on your feet. You will not cry aloud or weep. You will suffer and you will be weak because of the punishment for your sins. You will cry quietly among yourselves. 
Ezekiel24:24 Ezekiel is an example to you. You must do the same as he has done when his wife died. When this happens, you will know that I am the Almighty Lord.”" 
Ezekiel24:25 Son of man, I will soon take away from them Jerusalem's great temple. It is the beautiful place that has made them very happy. They are very proud of it. They love to look at it. I will also take away their sons and daughters." 
Ezekiel24:26 On the day when that happens, a man will run away from the battle in Jerusalem. He will come here to tell you the news." 
Ezekiel24:27 At that time, you will be able to speak again. You will talk with that man. You will no longer have to be quiet. You will be an example to the people, and they will know that I am the Lord. ’" 
Ezekiel25:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel25:2 ‘Son of man, look towards the people in Ammon. You must tell them my message to warn them." 
Ezekiel25:3 Say to them, “Listen to this message from the Almighty Lord. This is what he says: You shouted happily when enemies made my holy place unclean. You were happy when the land of Israel became an empty place. And you were happy when Judah's people went away as prisoners to a foreign country." 
Ezekiel25:4 So listen to me! I will give you to the people in the east to be their slaves. Their soldiers will come and they will put their tents among you. They will live among you. They will eat your fruit and they will drink your milk. 
Ezekiel25:5 I will make Rabbah a place where camels eat grass. I will make Ammon a place where sheep rest. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel25:6 This is what the Almighty Lord says: You were happy when I punished Israel. You clapped your hands together. You stamped your feet on the ground. 
Ezekiel25:7 So listen! I will now use my power to punish you. I will allow other nations to take all your valuable things. I will completely remove you so that you will not be a nation any longer. I will destroy you. Then you will know that I am the Lord.” 
Ezekiel25:8 The Almighty Lord says this: The people in Moab and Seir said, “Judah's people have become the same as all the other nations.”" 
Ezekiel25:9 So listen! I will let enemies attack the towns on the border of Moab. I will destroy their greatest cities, Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon and Kiriathaim." 
Ezekiel25:10 I will give Moab's people to the people in the east as their slaves, together with the Ammonites. The other nations will not remember the Ammonites any more." 
Ezekiel25:11 I will also punish Moab's people. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel25:12 The Almighty Lord says this: Edom's people were cruel to Judah's people when they wanted to punish them. They are guilty because of what they did to Judah's people. 
Ezekiel25:13 So the Almighty Lord God says this: I will use my power to punish Edom. I will destroy Edom's people and animals. Edom will become an empty place. Enemy soldiers will use their swords to kill the people, everywhere from Teman to Dedan." 
Ezekiel25:14 I will use my people, the Israelites, to punish Edom. The Edomites will know that I am very angry with them. They will know that their punishment comes from me. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel25:15 The Almighty Lord says this: The Philistines were cruel to Judah's people when they wanted to punish them. They hated Judah's people and they wanted to destroy them. They would not stop attacking them. 
Ezekiel25:16 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I will use my power to punish the Philistines. I will kill the Kerethites. I will destroy the people who remain on the coast of the sea. 
Ezekiel25:17 I will punish them very much because of the things that they have done. I will show them that I am very angry with them. When I punish them as they deserve, they will know that I am the Lord. ’" 
Ezekiel26:1 The Lord gave this message to me on the first day of the month, in the 11th year:" 
Ezekiel26:2 ‘Son of man, Tyre's people have said, “Good! An enemy has destroyed Jerusalem! Traders from that city went out to many nations. Now we will do that instead of them. We will become rich because Jerusalem is no longer a strong city.”" 
Ezekiel26:3 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I have become your enemy, Tyre. I will bring many nations to attack you. They will be like the waves of the sea as they hit you." 
Ezekiel26:4 They will destroy the walls of Tyre. They will knock down its strong towers. I will then remove all the stones that remain. The city will become a rock with nothing on it. 
Ezekiel26:5 On that rock, in the middle of the sea, men will dry the nets that they use to catch fish. That is what I say, says the Almighty Lord. Armies from other nations will take Tyre's valuable things for themselves." 
Ezekiel26:6 Soldiers will use their swords to kill people in the small towns on the coast near Tyre. Then people will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel26:7 This is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I will bring King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon to attack Tyre from the north. He is a powerful king. He will bring his great army with soldiers on horses and chariots. 
Ezekiel26:8 His soldiers will destroy your towns and villages on the coast. They will build heaps of earth around your walls. They will hold up their shields like a wall as they attack you. 
Ezekiel26:9 They will use heavy pieces of wood to knock down the city's walls. They will use their weapons to knock down the strong towers. 
Ezekiel26:10 King Nebuchadnezzar's army will have many horses. As they attack you, the dirt from their feet will cover you. The noise of the riders on the horses and the chariots' wheels will cause the city's walls to shake. They will break through the city's gates and walls." 
Ezekiel26:11 The horses will run along all the streets. The soldiers will kill your people with their swords. The strong pillars of your buildings will fall to the ground. 
Ezekiel26:12 The soldiers will take your riches and valuable things for themselves. They will break down your walls. They will destroy your beautiful homes. They will throw into the sea all the wood and stones that remain from your buildings. 
Ezekiel26:13 I will stop the noise of your songs. Nobody will hear the sound of your harps any longer. 
Ezekiel26:14 Tyre will be a rock in the sea with no buildings on it. Men will dry their nets on it. Nobody will ever build the city again. That is what I, the Almighty Lord, have said. So it will certainly happen!" 
Ezekiel26:15 This is what the Almighty Lord says to Tyre: All the people who live on the coast of the sea will hear the news. When they know that you have fallen to the ground, they will shake with fear. They will hear the loud shouts of your people when they die in the battle." 
Ezekiel26:16 Then the rulers of the towns on the coast of the sea will be very sad. They will no longer sit on their thrones. They will remove their beautiful royal clothes. They will sit on the ground as they shake with fear. They will not stop shaking when they hear what has happened to you. 
Ezekiel26:17 Then they will sing this funeral song about you: “City that was famous for your great sailors, now your power has gone! In the past, you made many people afraid, as your brave men travelled across the sea." 
Ezekiel26:18 Now you have fallen to the ground and people who live on the coast shake with fear. Now your power has gone and those people are very afraid.” 
Ezekiel26:19 This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will make you an empty place, like cities where nobody lives. The great waves of the sea will completely cover you." 
Ezekiel26:20 Then I will cause you to fall deep down into the earth. You will be part of the world of dead people who lived a long time ago. You will join other cities that became heaps of stones long ago. You will remain there. You will never again be a city in the world where people are alive. 
Ezekiel26:21 I will cause terrible things to happen to you. You will come to a complete end. People will look for you, but they will never find you. That is what the Almighty Lord says.’" 
Ezekiel27:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel27:2 ‘Son of man, sing a funeral song about Tyre." 
Ezekiel27:3 Tyre is a city on the coast of the sea. From there, traders go across the sea to sell things to people in many other countries. This is what the Almighty Lord says to Tyre: “Tyre, you say that you are completely beautiful." 
Ezekiel27:4 Your borders reached into the middle of the sea. Your builders made you like a great ship. 
Ezekiel27:5 They used wood from the pine trees of Senir. They used a cedar tree from Lebanon to make your mast. 
Ezekiel27:6 They used oak trees from Bashan to make your oars. They used pine wood from the coasts of Cyprus to make your deck. They made it beautiful with ivory. 
Ezekiel27:7 They used good linen from Egypt to make your sail. They made it pretty with many colours. The sail was like a flag that everyone could see. They made tents of cloth to cover your deck. It was blue and purple cloth that came from Cyprus island. 
Ezekiel27:8 Men from Sidon and Arvad used the oars to move the ship. Your own clever men from Tyre were your sailors. 
Ezekiel27:9 Leaders from Gebal went with you. They brought men who knew how to mend the ship. Sailors of ships from many countries came to buy things from you. 
Ezekiel27:10 There were brave soldiers from Persia, Lydia and Libya in your army. They hung their shields and their helmets on your walls. They caused people to give you honour." 
Ezekiel27:11 Men from Arvad and Helech were guards who stood on your walls. Soldiers from Gammad were in your strong towers. They hung their weapons on your walls. They made you look very beautiful. 
Ezekiel27:12 You had many valuable things to sell. So traders came from Tarshish to buy things from you. They brought silver and other good metals to pay for those things. 
Ezekiel27:13 Traders from Greece, Tubal and Meshech also came to buy things from you. They paid you with slaves and with things made of bronze." 
Ezekiel27:14 Men from Beth Togarmah came. They paid you with horses to use in war or for work, and also with mules." 
Ezekiel27:15 Traders came to you from Rhodes and from other countries beside the sea. They paid you with ivory and with ebony wood. 
Ezekiel27:16 Because you had so many things to sell, traders came to you from Syria. They paid you with different jewels, with valuable purple cloth, with other beautiful cloth and with good linen." 
Ezekiel27:17 Traders came to you from Judah and Israel. They paid you with wheat from Minnith, with figs, with honey, with olive oil and with medicine." 
Ezekiel27:18 Traders from Damascus came to you because you had many valuable things to sell. They sold you wine from Helbon and white wool from Zahar. 
Ezekiel27:19 Greek men from Uzal came to buy your things. They paid you with iron and different spices. 
Ezekiel27:20 Traders from Dedan sold you blankets for your horses. 
Ezekiel27:21 Men from Arabia and the rulers of Kedar came to buy your things. They brought lambs, male sheep and goats to sell to you." 
Ezekiel27:22 Traders from Sheba and Raamah came to buy things from you. They brought the best kinds of spices, jewels and gold to sell to you." 
Ezekiel27:23 Traders came to you from Haran, Canneh and Eden, as well as from Sheba, Asshur and Kilmad." 
Ezekiel27:24 They brought beautiful clothes made with expensive cloth. They also brought mats that were made with threads of many different colours. And they brought strong ropes. They brought these things to sell in your markets. 
Ezekiel27:25 Big ships from Tarshish carried your valuable things across the sea. You, Tyre, were like a great ship in the middle of the sea. You were full with a heavy load of many things." 
Ezekiel27:26 Your sailors took you into the great waves of the sea. There, a strong east wind has caused you to break into small pieces." 
Ezekiel27:27 All your valuable things and your riches will fall into the deep sea. All your sailors, your captains, your traders and your soldiers will also fall into the sea. Yes, everyone in you will drown in the sea on that day when you break into pieces." 
Ezekiel27:28 When your sailors call out for help, the cities on the coast of the sea will shake." 
Ezekiel27:29 All the sailors of other ships will leave their ships. The sailors and their captains will stand on the shore of the sea. 
Ezekiel27:30 They will weep loudly because they are very upset about you. They will throw dirt on their heads. They will lie down in ashes. 
Ezekiel27:31 They will cut all the hair off their heads. They will wear sackcloth. They will weep and be very upset because of the terrible thing that has happened to you. 
Ezekiel27:32 As they weep, they will sing this funeral song about you: ‘Tyre was the greatest city. But now it lies at the bottom of the sea and nobody knows that it is there.’" 
Ezekiel27:33 Your valuable things went to many people in nations across the sea. People were happy with the things that they received from you. Even kings in far places became rich because of you. 
Ezekiel27:34 Now the sea has broken you into pieces. You have fallen to the bottom of the deep sea. All your valuable things and the people who worked in you lie at the bottom of the sea. 
Ezekiel27:35 The people who live on the coast of the sea are afraid, because of what has happened to you. Their kings shake with fear. Their faces look very sad." 
Ezekiel27:36 Traders from other nations keep away from you. A terrible thing has happened to you. It will be the end of you for ever.” ’ 
Ezekiel28:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel28:2 ‘Son of man, say this to the ruler of Tyre. “This is what the Almighty Lord says: You are a very proud man. You say, ‘I am a god and Tyre is my throne. I rule over all the seas around me.’ But, whatever you think, you are only a man. You are not a god." 
Ezekiel28:3 You think that you are wiser than Daniel, and that you know all secrets." 
Ezekiel28:3 You think that you are wiser than Daniel, and that you know all secrets." 
Ezekiel28:4 You have been wise and clever enough to make yourself rich. You have stored much gold and silver in your palace. 
Ezekiel28:5 Because you are a clever trader, you have become even richer. And because of your riches, you have become very proud." 
Ezekiel28:6 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: You think that you are as wise as a god. 
Ezekiel28:7 So listen! I will bring a foreign army to attack you. They will be a very cruel enemy. They will use their swords to destroy your beautiful city. They will spoil the beautiful things that you have used your wisdom to get for yourselves. 
Ezekiel28:8 They will kill you violently in battle, and the sea will become your grave." 
Ezekiel28:9 When your enemies attack you, you will no longer say, ‘I am a god.’ When they are ready to kill you, you will know that you are only human." 
Ezekiel28:10 Foreign people will kill you. You will die like people who do not belong to me. I, the Almighty Lord have said this.” ’" 
Ezekiel28:11 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel28:12 ‘Son of man, sing this funeral song about the king of Tyre. Tell him, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: At one time, you were the example of a good man. You were completely wise and beautiful." 
Ezekiel28:13 You lived in God's beautiful garden, Eden. You wore valuable jewels on your clothes. The jewels were ruby, topaz, emerald, chrysolite, onyx, jasper, sapphire, turquoise and beryl. They were fixed to pieces of gold. They were ready for you to wear on the day that you were born." 
Ezekiel28:14 I put you there with a cherub to be your guard. You lived on my holy mountain. You walked among the stones that burned with fire. 
Ezekiel28:15 Everything that you did was completely good from the day that you were born. But later, you started to do wicked things." 
Ezekiel28:16 As a trader, you bought and sold many things. As a result, you became violent and you did evil things. So I sent you away in shame. I would not allow you to remain on my mountain. The cherub that had been your guard chased you out. You could no longer walk among the stones that burned with fire." 
Ezekiel28:17 But because you were so beautiful, you were very proud. You used your wisdom to do bad things, because you loved to have beautiful things. So I threw you down to the ground. I let other kings see what had happened to you." 
Ezekiel28:18 As a trader, you did many wrong things to cheat people. Your holy places became unclean. So I caused fire to completely destroy your city. Everyone could see that only ashes remained on the ground." 
Ezekiel28:19 All the people of other nations who knew you are very afraid. They have seen the terrible thing that has happened to you. You have come to a complete end and you will never return.” ’ 
Ezekiel28:20 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel28:21 ‘Son of man, turn and look towards Sidon. Tell them my message to warn them." 
Ezekiel28:22 Say, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I have become your enemy, Sidon. I will show your people how great I am. Then they will know that I am the Lord. I will punish your people for their sins so that they know that I am a holy God." 
Ezekiel28:23 I will cause disease to kill people in the city. Enemies will attack from all around the city, and people will die in the streets. Then they will know that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel28:24 Israel will no longer suffer because of the nations that are around them. Those nations will not be like sharp thorns that give the Israelites pain. They will not insult the Israelites any more. Then they will know that I am the Almighty Lord. 
Ezekiel28:25 This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will bring Israel's people back from the countries where I sent them to live. Then all the nations will see that I am a holy God for my people. My people will live in their own land that I gave to my servant, Jacob." 
Ezekiel28:26 They will live there safely. They will build houses and they will plant vineyards. I will punish all the nations around them who have insulted them. Then my people will live safely in their homes. And they will know that I am the Lord their God.” ’ 
Ezekiel29:1 The Lord gave this message to me on the 12th day of the 10th month of the 10th year: 
Ezekiel29:2 ‘Son of man, turn and look towards Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. You must speak my message to warn him and all Egypt's people." 
Ezekiel29:3 Tell them, “The Almighty Lord says this: Listen, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, I have become your enemy. You are like the great monster that lies in Egypt's streams. You say, ‘The River Nile belongs to me! I made it for myself.’" 
Ezekiel29:4 But I will put hooks into your mouth and catch you. I will cause the fish in your streams to hang on your scales. I will pull you out from the streams with all those fish on you. 
Ezekiel29:5 I will leave you in the wilderness with all your fish. You will lie on the ground in the open fields. Nobody will pick you up or take care of you. I will give you to the wild animals and birds to be their food. 
Ezekiel29:6 Then all the people who live in Egypt will know that I am the Lord. Israel's people thought that you would help them. But you were only like a weak stick for them. 
Ezekiel29:7 When they wanted you to hold them up, you broke into pieces. Your sharp pieces tore their shoulders. When they held on to you, you caused their legs to shake." 
Ezekiel29:8 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: I will bring am army to attack you. I will use them to kill all your men and your animals. 
Ezekiel29:9 The land of Egypt will become an empty place. Then they will know that I am the Lord. You said, ‘The River Nile belongs to me. I made it for myself.’" 
Ezekiel29:10 Because of that, I have become the enemy of you and your streams. I will destroy the land of Egypt. It will be an empty place, and its buildings will become heaps of stones. I will do that everywhere, from Migdol to Aswan and as far as Ethiopia's border." 
Ezekiel29:11 No men or animals will walk through that land. Nobody will live there for 40 years. 
Ezekiel29:12 Egypt will become like a desert among empty lands. Its cities will be empty for 40 years, among cities that have become heaps of stones. I will cause the Egyptians to go and live among other nations in places far away." 
Ezekiel29:13 But this is what the Almighty Lord says: After 40 years, I will bring the Egyptians back from the places where I sent them." 
Ezekiel29:14 I will bring them back home to live in peace. I will bring them to Pathros, the land of their ancestors. There they will be a weak kingdom." 
Ezekiel29:15 Egypt will be the least important of all kingdoms. It will never again have power over other nations. I will make it too weak to rule over other nations. 
Ezekiel29:16 Israel will never again hope that Egypt has the power to help them. Instead, Egypt will cause Israel's people to remember their sin. Their sin was to ask Egypt for help. Then they will know that I am the Almighty Lord.” ’" 
Ezekiel29:17 The Lord gave this message to me on the first day of the first month of the 27th year: 
Ezekiel29:18 ‘Son of man, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon attacked the city of Tyre with his army. His soldiers had to work very hard. They carried heavy loads so that it hurt their heads and their shoulders. They had a lot of pain. But they did not get anything valuable from Tyre, even though they worked so hard." 
Ezekiel29:19 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I will give the land of Egypt to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. He will take away all its riches and its valuable things. He will take all those things to pay the soldiers of his army. 
Ezekiel29:20 I will give Egypt to him to pay him for his work. When his army attacked Tyre, they did that work for me. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel29:21 At that time, I will make Israel a powerful nation again. Then I will give you a message to speak to them, Ezekiel. They will listen to what you say. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’" 
Ezekiel30:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel30:2 ‘Son of man, prophesy to the people. Say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Weep and cry aloud, ‘Help! The day of great trouble is coming!’" 
Ezekiel30:3 Yes, that day will be very soon. It is the day of the. It will be a day of dark clouds, when the Lord will punish the nations." 
Ezekiel30:4 An enemy army will attack Egypt. The people of Ethiopia will be afraid. Many people in Egypt will die in the battle. Enemies will carry away Egypt's riches. They will knock down Egypt's buildings. 
Ezekiel30:5 Soldiers from other nations will also die in the battle. They are soldiers from Ethiopia, Put, Lydia, Libya, and Arabia, as well as men who belong to my own people." 
Ezekiel30:6 This is what the Lord says: All the people who help Egypt will die in the battle. Egypt will no longer be proud of her great power. Egypt's soldiers will die everywhere, from Migdol to Aswan. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel30:7 Egypt will become like a desert among other deserts. Its cities will become heaps of stones. 
Ezekiel30:8 I will burn Egypt with fire. I will destroy all those who fight to help Egypt. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel30:9 At that time, I will send messengers in ships to Ethiopia. I will stop the Ethiopian people being proud of their power. Instead, the news about Egypt's trouble will make them very afraid. That day is coming soon! Be careful!" 
Ezekiel30:10 This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will use King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon to destroy Egypt's army. 
Ezekiel30:11 The king and his army will come to destroy the land. They are a nation of cruel people. They will attack Egypt's people with their swords. They will fill the land with dead bodies. 
Ezekiel30:12 I will cause the River Nile to become dry. I will put the land under the power of evil men. Foreigners will destroy the land of Egypt and everything that is in it. That is what I, the Lord, say." 
Ezekiel30:13 The Almighty Lord says this: I will destroy Egypt's idols and the false gods in Memphis. Egypt will no longer have its own ruler. I will cause Egypt's people to be very afraid. 
Ezekiel30:14 I will make Pathros a desert. I will burn Zoan with fire. I will punish the city of Thebes. 
Ezekiel30:15 I will punish Egypt's strong city of Pelusium. I will show the people there that I am very angry. I will destroy all the soldiers in Thebes. 
Ezekiel30:16 Yes, I will destroy all of Egypt with fire! The people of Pelusium will suffer with great pain. Enemies will knock down the walls of Thebes. The people of Memphis will live in fear every day." 
Ezekiel30:17 The young men of Heliopolis and Bubastis will die in the war. Enemies will take the other people from those cities as their prisoners. 
Ezekiel30:18 It will be a very dark day in Tahpanhes when I destroy Egypt's strength. Egypt will not be proud of her great power any more. A dark cloud will cover the land. Enemies will take away the people from Egypt's villages as prisoners. 
Ezekiel30:19 That is how I will punish Egypt. Then they will know that I am the Lord.” ’ 
Ezekiel30:20 The Lord gave this message to me on the 7th day of the first month, in the 11th year:" 
Ezekiel30:21 ‘Son of man, I have removed the strength of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. It is as if I have broken his arm and nobody has helped it to mend. He will never again have the power to fight battles." 
Ezekiel30:22 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I have become the enemy of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. I will make him like a man with two broken arms. I will break his strong arm and his broken arm. He will not be able to fight at all!" 
Ezekiel30:23 I will cause the Egyptian people to run away to live in foreign countries. 
Ezekiel30:24 I will make the king of Babylon powerful, to fight battles on my behalf. But I will cause Pharaoh to be weak. He will cry in pain when the king of Babylon attacks. He will receive wounds that cause him to die." 
Ezekiel30:25 Yes, I will make the king of Babylon strong. But Pharaoh, king of Egypt, will become weak. I will give the king of Babylon power to fight on my behalf. He will use that power to attack Egypt. Then they will know that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel30:26 I will send the Egyptian people away to many different countries. They will live among other nations. Then they will know that I am the Lord. ’ 
Ezekiel31:1 The Lord gave this message to me on the first day of the 3rd month, in the 11th year:" 
Ezekiel31:2 ‘Son of man, say this to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and all his people: “You think that you are as powerful as any other country!" 
Ezekiel31:3 Think about how powerful Assyria was. At one time, it was as strong as a great cedar tree in Lebanon. It had beautiful branches that gave shade in the forest. It was very tall. Its top reached up to the clouds." 
Ezekiel31:4 Springs of water from under the ground helped it to grow very tall. Rivers passed around the place where the tree was. Streams from there gave water to all the trees in the forest. 
Ezekiel31:5 So this cedar tree grew taller than all the other trees. Its branches became large and very long. It grew very well because it had plenty of water. 
Ezekiel31:6 All kinds of birds built their nests among its leaves. Under its branches, the wild animals gave birth. All the great nations lived in its shade." 
Ezekiel31:7 It was great and beautiful, with long branches. Its roots went down deep into the ground and they drank plenty of water." 
Ezekiel31:8 The cedar trees in God's garden were not as beautiful. The branches of the pine trees were not as strong. No tree in God's garden was nearly as great or as beautiful. 
Ezekiel31:9 I made that tree beautiful, with all its strong branches. All the trees in Eden, God's garden, were jealous of that tree." 
Ezekiel31:10 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: That great tree, Assyria, was very tall. Its top reached up to the clouds. It was very proud because it was so great." 
Ezekiel31:11 Because of that, I put it under the power of the ruler of the nations. He has punished it as it deserved for its sins. In that way, I have removed it." 
Ezekiel31:12 Foreigners from cruel nations have cut it down. They have left it on the ground. Its broken branches lie on the mountains and in the valleys. The people of other nations no longer live in its shade. They have gone away. 
Ezekiel31:13 Now the birds go and sit on the bits of the tree that remain. The wild animals walk over its branches. 
Ezekiel31:14 Because of that, no tree will ever grow as tall again. Even if it receives plenty of water, no tree will grow so tall that its top reaches up to the clouds. All trees will die and fall to the ground. Like people, they must die and go into their graves, under the ground." 
Ezekiel31:15 This is what the Almighty Lord says: This tree has died and it has gone down into its grave. When that happened, I caused people to be very sad. I caused the springs of water to stop. There were no longer streams with plenty of water. I caused the mountains of Lebanon to become dark. All the trees in the forest became dry." 
Ezekiel31:16 The other nations shook when they heard that great tree fall. I had caused it to go down into its grave, deep under the ground, as all people must die. The other strong trees saw what had happened to the great cedar tree. They were the trees of Eden and the best trees of Lebanon that had received plenty of water. They were pleased to see that the great cedar tree had fallen down." 
Ezekiel31:17 The trees that had lived in the great tree's shade also fell and went into their graves. Those are the nations that had helped the great tree to fight its battles. They went to join other soldiers who had died in war. 
Ezekiel31:18 Yes, Egypt is very strong, like the great trees of Eden. You are as great and powerful as any nation. But you will fall to the ground and go into your grave. It happened to Assyria and the other nations, and it will happen to you. You will lie under the ground among people who do not belong to me and who have died in war. This is a picture of what will happen to Pharaoh and all his people. That is what the Almighty Lord says.” ’" 
Ezekiel32:1 The Lord gave this message to me on the first day of the 12th month, in the 12th year:" 
Ezekiel32:2 ‘Son of man, sing a funeral song about Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Say this to him: “You have shown your power among the nations, like a strong lion. But really you are a monster who lives in the sea. You live in the rivers of your country. You beat the water with your feet. The water of your streams becomes dirty." 
Ezekiel32:3 This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will bring a big crowd of people together to catch you in my net. They will use my net to pull you out of the water. 
Ezekiel32:4 I will throw you onto dry ground and I will leave you there. I will bring the birds to fly down from the sky and they will sit on you. I will bring the wild animals to feed themselves on you, and they will eat as much as they want." 
Ezekiel32:5 I will put the meat of your body on the mountains. Your bones will fill the valleys. 
Ezekiel32:6 I will make the ground wet with your blood. It will pour out of you, up to the mountains. And it will fill the deep valleys." 
Ezekiel32:7 When I completely destroy you, I will cover the sky and make the stars become dark. I will cover the sun with a cloud. The moon will no longer give any light." 
Ezekiel32:8 I will make the sky over you become dark, with no lights in it. Your whole country will become dark. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel32:9 When many other nations know that I have destroyed you, they will be afraid. Foreign nations that you do not know will be very upset." 
Ezekiel32:10 The people of many countries will be afraid when they see what I have done to you. Their kings will shake with fear. When I wave my sword in front of them, they will not stop shaking! At the time that your life finishes, they will also fear death." 
Ezekiel32:11 This is what the Almighty Lord says: The king of Babylon will attack you with his army. 
Ezekiel32:12 His brave soldiers will fight against you. I will cause them to destroy your army. They are the most cruel of all the nations. They will stop Egypt's people being proud of their power. They will destroy all Egypt's armies. 
Ezekiel32:13 I will destroy all Egypt's cows that live beside its great rivers. So no people or animals will walk in the water any more. They will not cause the water to become dirty. 
Ezekiel32:14 Then I will cause the water in the rivers to be clean again. The water will move freely like olive oil. That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Ezekiel32:15 I will cause Egypt to become an empty place. I will remove everything that grows on the land. I will kill all the people who live there. Then they will know that I am the Lord.” 
Ezekiel32:16 That is the funeral song that people will sing about Egypt. Women of many nations will sing it. They will sing it because of the death of Egypt and all her people. That is what the Almighty Lord says.’ 
Ezekiel32:17 In the 12th year, the Lord gave this message to me on the 15th day of the month:" 
Ezekiel32:18 ‘Son of man, weep for the many people of Egypt. Send them down to the place of dead people, deep under the ground. They will be there in their graves with the people of other powerful nations." 
Ezekiel32:19 Say to them, “You think you are more beautiful than the people of other nations. But you too must go down to lie in your graves among those who do not belong to God.”" 
Ezekiel32:20 An enemy has come to attack Egypt! Many of its people will die among the soldiers who die in battle. The enemy will take many of Egypt's people away as their prisoners. 
Ezekiel32:21 In the place of dead people, brave soldiers will welcome the people of Egypt and those who helped them. They will say, “They have come down to join us who do not belong to God. They have died in battle and now they lie in their graves.”" 
Ezekiel32:22 The people of Assyria and its whole army are there in their graves! All of them died in battle. 
Ezekiel32:23 Their graves are in the deepest parts of the deep hole of death. Soldiers who fought with them lie all around. They were very cruel to people when they were alive. But they died in battle and now they lie in their graves. 
Ezekiel32:24 The people of Elam and its whole army are also there! All of them died in battle too. They were cruel to many people when they were alive. Now they have gone down deep below the ground, as people who do not belong to God. They are ashamed to join with other people in the deep hole of death." 
Ezekiel32:25 Elam lies there on a bed that people have prepared for her. All Elam's soldiers lie around its grave. None of them belongs to God and they have all died in battle. When they were alive, they made people very afraid. But now they are ashamed, as they lie in their graves among other dead people in the deep hole of death." 
Ezekiel32:26 Meshech and Tubal are also there in their graves, with their soldiers all around. When they were alive, they made people very afraid. Now they have all died in battle and none of them belongs to God." 
Ezekiel32:27 They do not lie with the brave dead soldiers of long ago. Those men went down into their graves with honour. People buried them with their weapons. They put their swords under their heads. When those brave men were alive, they caused people to be very afraid of them." 
Ezekiel32:28 You too, Egypt, will lie in your grave among those who do not belong to God. You will lie beside other people who died in battle." 
Ezekiel32:29 Edom is there, too, with its kings and leaders. They were powerful, but now they lie in their graves, among those who have died in battle. They have gone down into the deep hole of death with those who do not belong to God." 
Ezekiel32:30 All the rulers of the north are there, as well as all the people of Sidon. They used their power to make people very afraid. But now they are ashamed, like other people who have gone down into the deep hole of death. They lie in their graves with those who have died in battle, and they do not belong to God." 
Ezekiel32:31 The Almighty Lord says this: Pharaoh will not feel so sad when he sees all these other dead people in their graves. He and his whole army will know that they are not the only people to have died in battle. 
Ezekiel32:32 When he was alive, I caused him to make people very afraid. But Pharaoh and all his great army will lie in their graves among other people who died in battle. They will lie among people who do not belong to God. That is what I, the Almighty Lord, have said.’" 
Ezekiel33:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel33:2 ‘Son of man, speak to your people. Say to them, “Think about what might happen if I send an army to attack a country. The people of that country might choose one of their own men to be a guard to warn them about danger." 
Ezekiel33:3 Then, if the guard sees that enemy soldiers are ready to attack, he must blow a trumpet to warn his people." 
Ezekiel33:4 Someone might hear the sound of the trumpet, but he does nothing to keep himself safe. If enemy soldiers then come and kill that person, he is guilty of his own death." 
Ezekiel33:5 He deserves to die because he heard the sound of the trumpet, but he did nothing. When the trumpet warned him of danger, he should have got ready. If he had done that, he would have saved his life." 
Ezekiel33:6 But the guard might not blow the trumpet when he sees the enemy. He might not warn his people that the enemy is ready to attack them. Then enemy soldiers might kill some of his people. Those people will die because of their sins. But the guard will be guilty of their death, because he did not warn them of danger.”" 
Ezekiel33:7 Son of man, I have chosen you to be a guard for Israel's people. You must listen to the messages that I give you. Then you must use what I say to warn the Israelites." 
Ezekiel33:8 I might say to a wicked person, “You will certainly die because of your sins.” Then you must warn that wicked person to stop doing wicked things. If you do not warn him, he will die because of his sins. But I will say that you are guilty of his death." 
Ezekiel33:9 If you do warn him and he refuses to change, he will die because of his sins. But you will have saved your own life." 
Ezekiel33:10 Son of man, give Israel's people this message: “You are saying, ‘The punishment for our sins is too much for us. We are dying because of all the bad things that we have done. What should we do so that we can continue to live?’ ”" 
Ezekiel33:11 Tell them, “It does not make me happy to punish wicked people with death. I, the Almighty Lord, promise you this, as surely as I live. I want wicked people to stop doing wrong things so that they may continue to live. So stop doing evil things! Israel's people, you do not have to die. Turn back to me!”" 
Ezekiel33:12 Son of man, you must say to your people, “If a righteous person refuses to obey me, I will punish him. The good things that he has done will not save him. And if a wicked person stops doing bad things, he will no longer be guilty. Righteous people will not continue to live if they start to do bad things.”" 
Ezekiel33:13 I may say to righteous people that they will certainly continue to live. But then they may trust in the good things that they have done. They may think that I will not punish them if they start to do evil things. But if they do that, I will destroy them because of their sins. I will not even think about the good things that they did at an earlier time." 
Ezekiel33:14 Also, I may say to wicked people, “You will certainly die because of your sins.” But then they may stop doing bad things. They may start to do things that are good and right." 
Ezekiel33:15 For example, a wicked person might give back something that he has taken from someone as a guarantee. Or he might give back things that he has robbed from people. A wicked person might start to obey the laws that give life. He might stop doing evil things. If wicked people change like that, then they will continue to live. They will not die as punishment for their sins." 
Ezekiel33:16 I will not think about the sins that they have done. Now that they have started to do things that are good and right, they will certainly continue to live." 
Ezekiel33:17 Your people, the Israelites, are saying: “The Lord is not fair in the things that he does!” But it is the people themselves who live in a way that is not fair." 
Ezekiel33:18 If a righteous person stops doing good things and he starts to do evil things, he will die. He deserves to die because of his sins." 
Ezekiel33:19 Also, if a wicked person stops doing bad things and he starts to do things that are good and right, he will continue to live. He deserves to live because he has changed." 
Ezekiel33:20 But you Israelites continue to say, “The Lord is not fair!” But I will judge each of you in a way that you deserve for the things that you have done.’" 
Ezekiel33:21 This is what happened 12 years after we had come to Babylon as prisoners. It was on the 5th day of the 10th month of that year. A man who had escaped from Jerusalem came to me in Babylon. He said, ‘Enemies have taken Jerusalem for themselves.’" 
Ezekiel33:22 Before that man arrived, the Lord had taken hold of me in the night. He had opened my mouth so that I was able to speak again." 
Ezekiel33:23 Then the Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel33:24 ‘Son of man, there are people who continue to live in the places in Israel that have become heaps of stones. Those Israelites are saying, “Abraham was only one man, but God gave him the whole land of Israel. We are many people. So we can be sure that the land now belongs to us.”" 
Ezekiel33:25 Because they say that, you must tell them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: You eat meat which still has blood in it. You worship your idols. You also murder people. So you do not deserve to have the land for yourselves." 
Ezekiel33:26 You use violence to get the things that you want. You do disgusting things. You have sex with other men's wives. So you should certainly not have the land!” 
Ezekiel33:27 Say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I promise you this, as surely as I live. Soldiers will kill the people who live among the heaps of stones. I will cause wild animals to eat the people who live in the fields. Diseases will kill the people who hide in strong buildings and in caves." 
Ezekiel33:28 I will make the land become empty, like a desert. You will no longer be proud of your power. Israel's mountains will become empty places that nobody travels through." 
Ezekiel33:29 I will cause the land to become heaps of stones where nobody lives. I will do that to punish the people for the disgusting things that they have done. Then they will know that I am the Lord.” 
Ezekiel33:30 Son of man, the Israelites who are here with you in Babylon are talking about you. They meet together near the walls of the city and at the doors of their houses. They are saying to each other, “Come and hear the message that has come from the Lord.”" 
Ezekiel33:31 They are my people and they come as a crowd to listen to you. They sit and they listen to your words. But they do not obey what you say. They say that they love me. But really they like to cheat people to get things for themselves. 
Ezekiel33:32 They like to hear your voice. For them, you are like someone who sings beautiful songs about love. They listen to your words but they do not obey them." 
Ezekiel33:33 All these things that I have said will certainly happen. When my people see them happen, they will know that a prophet has lived among them.’" 
Ezekiel34:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel34:2 ‘Son of man, you must speak my message to the shepherds of Israel to warn them. Tell them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Terrible trouble will come to you shepherds of Israel who only think about yourselves. Shepherds should take care of the sheep and feed them." 
Ezekiel34:3 You drink their milk and you use their wool to make clothes for yourselves. You kill the best animals to eat. But you do not take care of the sheep! 
Ezekiel34:4 You have not helped the weak sheep to be strong. You have not made the sick sheep well. Nor have you covered their wounds. You have not looked for lost sheep and brought them back. Instead, you have ruled my people in a cruel way." 
Ezekiel34:5 So my sheep ran away to different places because they did not have a shepherd to take care of them. Then the wild animals found them and ate them. 
Ezekiel34:6 My sheep went over all the mountains and the high hills. They went to places everywhere on the earth. And nobody went to look for them and bring them back again. 
Ezekiel34:7 So, you shepherds, listen to the Lord 's message." 
Ezekiel34:8 My sheep do not have any shepherds to take care of them. So they are not safe from danger. They have become food for all the wild animals. You, my shepherds, have not gone to look for the sheep that were lost. You only wanted to help yourselves instead of my sheep. So I, the Almighty Lord, promise you this, as surely as I live." 
Ezekiel34:9 You shepherds, listen to the Lord 's message!" 
Ezekiel34:10 The Almighty Lord says this: I have become the shepherds' enemy. I will take my sheep away from them. I will no longer allow them to be shepherds. They will not be able to kill my sheep to feed themselves. I will rescue my sheep, so that the shepherds cannot eat them." 
Ezekiel34:11 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: I myself will go and look for my sheep to bring them back. 
Ezekiel34:12 I will be like a shepherd who looks everywhere to find his lost sheep. I will find them and I will rescue them. I will bring them back from the places that they have run away to. It was a dark day with many clouds when they ran away. 
Ezekiel34:13 They have been living in foreign countries among other people. I will bring them back to live in their own land. I will feed them on the mountains of Israel. They will eat beside its rivers and in all the places where people live. 
Ezekiel34:14 I will feed them in fields on Israel's mountains where grass grows. They will lie down in the good fields. They will eat the green grass that grows on the mountains. 
Ezekiel34:15 I myself will take care of my sheep. I will give them safe places to lie down and rest. I, the Almighty Lord, say this." 
Ezekiel34:16 I will find the lost sheep and I will bring them back. I will cover their wounds. I will help those who are weak to become strong. But I will destroy those who are fat and powerful. I will give them justice as their food! 
Ezekiel34:17 This is what I, the Almighty Lord, say to you, my sheep: I will judge you. I will decide which of you are good and which of you are bad. I will judge between male sheep and goats." 
Ezekiel34:18 You bad sheep make sure that you have plenty of good grass to eat. But then you spoil the other grass so that no other sheep can eat it. You have clean water to drink. But then you spoil the water which remains. It is too dirty for other sheep to drink. 
Ezekiel34:19 Because of that, my sheep eat grass that you have spoiled. They drink water that you have made dirty with your feet." 
Ezekiel34:20 So this is what I, the Almighty Lord, say to the sheep: I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the thin sheep." 
Ezekiel34:21 You fat sheep use your shoulders to push the other sheep away. You attack the weak sheep with your horns so that they run away. 
Ezekiel34:22 Because you do this, I will rescue my sheep. They will no longer be in danger from other animals. I will judge between one sheep and another sheep." 
Ezekiel34:23 Then I will choose one shepherd to lead them. He is my servant, David. He will take care of them as their shepherd." 
Ezekiel34:24 I, the Lord, will be their God. My servant David will be their ruler. I, the Lord, have said this." 
Ezekiel34:25 I will make an agreement with them, that I will give them peace. I will remove the dangerous wild animals from the land. Then they can live there safely, even in the wilderness. They will not be afraid when they sleep in the forests." 
Ezekiel34:26 I will bless them with many good things as they live around my holy hill. I will send rain at the proper time each year. The rain will bring my blessings to them. 
Ezekiel34:27 The trees in the fields will give them fruit to eat. Crops of food will grow in the ground. The people will live safely in their land. I will take away the power of those who were cruel to them. I will rescue them from the people who made them their slaves. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel34:28 They will no longer be in danger from other nations. Wild animals will no longer eat them. They will live safely and nobody will cause them to be afraid. 
Ezekiel34:29 I will give them a land that is famous for its good crops. So famine will never cause them to suffer in that land. Other nations will no longer insult them. 
Ezekiel34:30 Then they will know that I, the Lord their God, am with them. They will know that they are my people, the Israelites. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel34:31 You are my people and I take care of you, as a shepherd takes care of his sheep. You are my people and I am your God. That is what the Almighty Lord says.” ’" 
Ezekiel35:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel35:2 ‘Son of man, look towards Mount Seir. Then speak my message to warn it." 
Ezekiel35:3 Say to it, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I am your enemy, Mount Seir. I will attack you, so that you become like a desert." 
Ezekiel35:4 I will destroy your towns. They will become heaps of stones where nobody lives. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel35:5 You have always hated Israel's people. Because of that, you did not help them when their enemy attacked them and killed them. They were in great trouble when I punished them for their sins." 
Ezekiel35:6 So I, the Almighty Lord, promise you this, as surely as I live. I will allow your enemies to kill you. If you run away from them, they will chase you and kill you. You were happy to see an enemy kill my people, so an enemy will kill you also." 
Ezekiel35:7 I will make Mount Seir become like a desert where nobody lives. I will destroy anyone who travels through that place. 
Ezekiel35:8 Dead bodies will lie all over your mountains. The bodies of men who have died in battle will lie on your hills and in your valleys. 
Ezekiel35:9 I will make you a desert for ever and nobody will live in your towns. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel35:10 You said, ‘We will take these two nations for ourselves. Israel and Judah will belong to us.’ You said that when I, the Lord, was there with them." 
Ezekiel35:11 So I promise that I will punish you, as surely as I live. That is what the Almighty Lord says. Because you were angry and jealous, you hated my people, So I will punish you as you deserve. When I judge you, my people will know who I am." 
Ezekiel35:12 Then you will know that I, the Lord, have heard you. You have insulted the mountains of Israel. You said, ‘Those mountains have become a desert. So we can take them for ourselves.’" 
Ezekiel35:13 You said many proud things to insult me. You thought that you were greater than me. I heard everything that you said! 
Ezekiel35:14 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: I will make your land become a desert. All the people in the world will be very happy when they see this. 
Ezekiel35:15 You were happy when you saw me punish Israel's people so that their land became a desert. Because you were happy, I will punish you as you deserve. Mount Seir and all the land of Edom will become an empty desert. Then Edom's people will know that I am the Lord.” ’" 
Ezekiel36:1 The Lord said, ‘Son of man, speak my message to the mountains of Israel. Say to them: “Listen to the Lord 's message, you mountains of Israel." 
Ezekiel36:2 This is what the Almighty Lord says: Your enemies have laughed at you. They have said, ‘The old mountains now belong to us!’ ”" 
Ezekiel36:3 So now prophesy to those mountains. Tell them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Your enemies attacked you from every side. They won against you, so that you belonged to other nations. People talked about you and they insulted you." 
Ezekiel36:4 Because of this, mountains of Israel, listen to this message from me, the Almighty Lord. I say this to the hills, the mountains and the valleys. I say this to the empty places and the towns that have become heaps of stones where nobody lives. This has caused the nations around you to laugh at you and insult you." 
Ezekiel36:5 So this is what the Almighty Lord says: I am very angry with those nations and I will punish them. I am even more angry with the people of Edom because they insulted my people. They were happy to take my land for themselves so that their animals could eat the grass.” 
Ezekiel36:6 So prophesy to the hills and mountains of Israel, and to its valleys. Tell them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I am very angry because the nations around you have caused you to be ashamed." 
Ezekiel36:7 So this is what I, the Almighty Lord, say: I make a strong promise that those nations will soon be ashamed themselves." 
Ezekiel36:8 But I say this to you mountains of Israel. Trees will grow on you again and crops will provide much food for my people. My people will soon come home. 
Ezekiel36:9 I am your friend and I will take care of you. Men will plough your ground and they will plant seeds in it. 
Ezekiel36:10 I will cause more and more Israelite people to live on you, and in all the land. They will live in the towns and they will repair the broken buildings." 
Ezekiel36:11 I will make more and more people and animals live on you. They will give birth to many young ones, so that they grow in number. I will cause many people to live on you, as they did a long time ago. I will help you with more good things than you had when you first became a land for my people. Then you will know that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel36:12 I will cause my people, the Israelites, to walk on you. You will belong to them as the place where they and their descendants live. You will never again cause their children to die." 
Ezekiel36:13 This is what the Almighty Lord says: People are saying to you, Israel's land, ‘You destroy people. You take away the nation's children.’" 
Ezekiel36:14 So now I, the Almighty Lord, tell you this: You will no longer destroy people or take away the nation's children." 
Ezekiel36:15 People from other nations will no longer insult you or laugh at you. You will no longer cause your nation to suffer. That is what the Almighty Lord says.” ’ 
Ezekiel36:16 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel36:17 ‘Son of man, Israel's people made their own land unclean when they lived there. They lived in a bad way and they did bad things. It made them unclean, like a woman when she bleeds each month." 
Ezekiel36:18 So I punished them with my great anger. I punished them because they murdered people on their land. And they made the land unclean with idols that they worshipped. 
Ezekiel36:19 I sent them to live among people of other nations in foreign countries. I punished them as they deserved for the bad things that they did. 
Ezekiel36:20 But among the nations where they went, they continued to bring shame to my holy name. People said, “These are the Lord 's people, but they had to leave the land that he gave to them.”" 
Ezekiel36:21 I wanted them to give honour to my holy name. Instead, Israel's people brought me shame among the nations where they went." 
Ezekiel36:22 So you must say to Israel's people, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will help you, Israel's people. But it is not because you deserve it. I will do it so that people give honour to my holy name. You brought me shame among the nations where you went." 
Ezekiel36:23 Now I will show them that my name is great and holy. You brought shame to my name. But I will help you so that the nations can see that I am great. When I do that, they will know that I am the Lord. That is what I, the Almighty Lord, say." 
Ezekiel36:24 I will take you out from the nations and all the foreign countries where you have been living. I will bring you back to your own land. 
Ezekiel36:25 You will become pure, as if I splash you with clean water. I will remove all the things that make you unclean. I will take away the idols that you worship." 
Ezekiel36:26 I will give you new thoughts. I will put a new spirit in you. You will no longer refuse to obey me. Instead, you will want to please me." 
Ezekiel36:27 I will put my Spirit in you, so that you obey my commands. You will be careful to obey my laws." 
Ezekiel36:28 At that time, you will live in the land that I gave to your ancestors. You will be my people and I will be your God." 
Ezekiel36:29 I will save you from all the things that made you unclean. I will cause the land to give you plenty of grain to eat. You will no longer have any famines. 
Ezekiel36:30 The trees will provide plenty of fruit. And crops will grow well in the fields. Other nations will no longer make you feel ashamed because you have no food to eat. 
Ezekiel36:31 Then you will remember the evil way that you lived. You will remember the bad things that you did. You will be ashamed of yourselves because of the sins and the disgusting things that you did. 
Ezekiel36:32 I want you to know that I am not doing this because you deserve it. You should be ashamed, Israel's people. You should feel sorry for the things that you have done. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel36:33 This is what the Almighty Lord says: At that time, I will make you clean from all your sins. When I do that, I will send you back to live in your towns. You will build your houses again that had become heaps of stones." 
Ezekiel36:34 You will plough the empty land again to provide food. People who travel there will no longer think that the land is useless. 
Ezekiel36:35 They will say, ‘This land was like a desert, but now it is like the Garden of Eden. People now live in the cities that had become heaps of stones. The cities now have strong walls.’" 
Ezekiel36:36 Then the nations that still live around you will see what has happened. They will know that I, the Lord, have mended the broken cities. They will know that I have planted crops again in the fields that were empty. I, the Lord, have said this, and I will do it!”" 
Ezekiel36:37 This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will listen to what Israel's people are asking me to do for them. I will allow them to grow in number, like a big crowd of sheep. They will be as many as the sheep that people brought to Jerusalem as offerings at a festival. I will fill the broken cities with crowds of people, as many as those sheep. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’" 
Ezekiel36:38  
Ezekiel37:1 The Lord took hold of me with great power. In a vision, the Lord 's Spirit took me to the middle of a valley. Bones covered all the ground there." 
Ezekiel37:2 The Lord made me walk up and down among the bones. I could see many bones there, on the ground in the valley. They were completely dry." 
Ezekiel37:3 He asked me, ‘Son of man, can these bones become alive again?’ I said, ‘ Almighty Lord, only you know the answer.’" 
Ezekiel37:4 Then he said to me, ‘ Prophesy to these bones. Say to them, “Dry bones, listen to the Lord 's message!" 
Ezekiel37:5 This is what the Almighty Lord says to you bones: Listen! I will put breath into you and you will become alive. 
Ezekiel37:6 I will join you together and I will put meat on you. I will cover you with skin. I will put breath into you and you will become alive. Then you will know that I am the Lord.” ’ 
Ezekiel37:7 So I prophesied, as the Lord had commanded me to do. While I was still speaking, there was a noise. It was the sound of the bones as they knocked against each other when they joined together." 
Ezekiel37:8 While I watched, I saw meat come and join to the bones. Then skin covered them. But there was no breath in them yet." 
Ezekiel37:9 Then the Lord said to me, ‘Prophesy to the wind, son of man. Speak my message to the wind. Say, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Blow from all directions and put breath into these dead bodies! Cause them to become alive again.” ’" 
Ezekiel37:10 So I spoke the message that the Lord had commanded me to speak. Breath went into those dead bodies and they became alive. They stood up on their feet. They were as many as a great army. 
Ezekiel37:11 Then the Lord said to me, ‘Son of man, these bones are a picture of all Israel's people. The Israelites are saying, “Our bones are dead and dry. There are no good things that we can hope for. We have come to an end.”" 
Ezekiel37:12 So prophesy and say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen, my people! I will soon open up your graves. I will bring you out of your graves. I will bring you back to the land of Israel." 
Ezekiel37:13 When that happens to you, my people, you will know that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel37:14 I will put the breath of my Spirit in you, and you will become alive. I will let you live safely in your own land. Then you will know that I, the Lord, have spoken. You will know that I have done what I said I would do. That is what the Lord says.” ’" 
Ezekiel37:15 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel37:16 ‘Son of man, take a stick and write on it, “This stick belongs to Judah and the Israelite tribes that are with him.” Then take another stick and write on it, “This stick belongs to Joseph's son Ephraim and the Israelite tribes that are with him.”" 
Ezekiel37:17 Make the two sticks join together to become one stick in your hand. 
Ezekiel37:18 Your people will ask you, “Please tell us what this means.”" 
Ezekiel37:19 When they ask that, say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will take Joseph's stick that belongs to Ephraim and the Israelite tribes that are with him. I will cause it to join together with Judah's stick. I will make them become one stick in my hand.”" 
Ezekiel37:20 Hold the two sticks that you have written words on. Hold them in your hand for the people to see. 
Ezekiel37:21 Say to the people, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I will take Israel's people out from among the nations where they have gone. I will bring them back together from all those foreign countries. I will bring them to their own land." 
Ezekiel37:22 In that land, I will make them become one nation. They will live on Israel's mountains. They will have one king to rule over them all. They will never again become two nations or two separate kingdoms." 
Ezekiel37:23 They will no longer worship their disgusting idols and make themselves unclean. They will not refuse to obey me. They have turned away from me and done bad things. But I will save them from all their sins. I will make them clean. They will be my people and I will be their God. 
Ezekiel37:24 My servant David will be their king. There will be one shepherd who takes care of them all. They will carefully obey my rules and my laws. 
Ezekiel37:25 They will live in the land that I gave to my servant Jacob. It is the land where your ancestors lived. My people, their children and their grandchildren will live there. They will live there for ever. My servant David will rule over them for ever." 
Ezekiel37:26 I will make a covenant with them to give them peace. It is a promise to my people that will continue for ever. I will cause them to live safely in their land. I will cause them to grow in number. I will put my temple among them, to be with them for ever." 
Ezekiel37:27 I will make my home with them. I will be their God and they will be my people. 
Ezekiel37:28 Then the nations will know that I, the Lord, have chosen the Israelites as my own people. The nations will see that I have put my temple among my people for ever.” ’" 
Ezekiel38:1 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Ezekiel38:2 ‘Son of man, turn and look towards Gog, in the land of Magog. He is the most important ruler of Meshech and Tubal. Speak my message to warn him." 
Ezekiel38:3 Say, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: I am your enemy, Gog, ruler of Meshech and Tubal." 
Ezekiel38:4 I will turn you around. I will put hooks into your mouth and catch you. I will take hold of you and your great army, with its horses and their riders. I will take hold of all your soldiers, who are ready to fight with their swords and their shields. I will pull them all away." 
Ezekiel38:5 Soldiers from Persia, Ethiopia and Libya will be there with your army. They all have shields and helmets." 
Ezekiel38:6 All the soldiers from Gomer will join you. An army from Beth Togarmah will also come with all its soldiers from far away in the north. So armies from many nations will be with you.” 
Ezekiel38:7 Say to Gog, “Prepare to fight! You must be ready to command all the armies that are with you." 
Ezekiel38:8 After many days you will have to bring your soldiers together to fight a battle. In the years at the end of time, you will go to attack the land of Israel. It will be a land that has become strong again after war. The people there will have returned from other nations. They will all be living safely in that land that had become heaps of stones. They will all be together on Israel's mountains." 
Ezekiel38:9 Then you will attack them. You, with your armies and all the people with you, will attack them like a great storm. You will be like a dark cloud that covers the land." 
Ezekiel38:10 This is what the Almighty Lord says: On that day you will have evil thoughts. You will decide to do a wicked thing. 
Ezekiel38:11 You will say: ‘We will attack a land where the villages have no walls around them. The people are living quietly in peace and we will attack them. They have no walls or strong gates to keep them safe. 
Ezekiel38:12 We will fight them and take their things for ourselves. The people there have come back from other nations where they lived. They are living in their homes which had become heaps of stones. Now they have got many animals and valuable things. Their land has become an important place in the middle of everywhere.’ 
Ezekiel38:13 The people of Sheba and Dedan, and the traders and leaders of Tarshish will ask you questions. They will say, ‘Why have you brought all your armies together? Have you come to attack Israel and take away their valuable things for yourselves? Will you take away their silver and their gold? Will you take their animals and all their things? Will you carry away such a great load of things for yourselves? ’ ”" 
Ezekiel38:14 So, son of man, you must prophesy to Gog. Say to him, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: That is what you will decide to do at that time. You will do it when you see that my people, the Israelites, are living safely." 
Ezekiel38:15 You will come from your country far away in the north. You will bring many soldiers with you. All of them will be riding on horses. They will be a great army of many soldiers. 
Ezekiel38:16 Your army will be like a cloud that covers the land when you attack my people, the Israelites. In the days at the end of time I will bring you to attack my land. Yes, Gog, I will use you to show the nations that I am holy. Then they will know who I am." 
Ezekiel38:17 This is what the Almighty Lord says: In years long ago, I gave my servants, the prophets of Israel, messages about you. At that time they prophesied that I would bring you to attack my people." 
Ezekiel38:18 I, the Almighty Lord, say this: On the day that Gog attacks the land of Israel, I will become more and more angry." 
Ezekiel38:19 I promise you this, because I am so very angry. On that day, there will be a great earthquake in the land of Israel." 
Ezekiel38:20 Everything that lives will shake with fear when they see what I am doing. The fish in the sea, the birds in the sky, the wild animals, the small animals that move along the ground and all the people on earth will be very afraid. I will make the mountains and hills break into pieces. All the walls in the cities will fall down." 
Ezekiel38:21 I will command the soldiers on all the mountains of my land to attack Gog. That is what I, the Almighty Lord, say. Gog's soldiers will fight against each other with their swords." 
Ezekiel38:22 I will judge Gog. I will punish his men with disease and death. I will send storms of rain, hail, fire and sulphur. They will pour down from the sky on him and on his armies." 
Ezekiel38:23 I will show all the nations that I am great and I am holy. Then they will know that I am the Lord.” ’ 
Ezekiel39:1 ‘Son of man, you must tell my message to Gog to warn him. Say to him, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Listen! I am your enemy, Gog, ruler of Meshech and Tubal." 
Ezekiel39:2 I will turn you around and I will pull you along. I will bring you from the far away places in the north to attack the mountains of Israel. 
Ezekiel39:3 Then I will knock your bow out of your left hand. I will cause your arrows to fall out of your right hand. 
Ezekiel39:4 You will fall to the ground on Israel's mountains. You, your soldiers and the people who are with you will all die there. Vultures and wild animals will eat your dead bodies." 
Ezekiel39:5 Your bodies will lie in the fields. I, the Almighty Lord, have said that this will happen." 
Ezekiel39:6 I will send fires to burn in Magog. They will burn the people who live safely in towns on the coast of the sea. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel39:7 My people, Israel will know that my name is holy. No longer will I let them say bad things about me. And the nations around you will know that I, the Lord, am the Holy God in Israel." 
Ezekiel39:8 I promise that I will cause this to happen. You can be sure that this day will come, says the Lord God. I told you that this day would come." 
Ezekiel39:9 Then those who live in Israel's towns will go out. They will pick up the weapons and they will burn them. They will burn the small and large shields, the bows and arrows, the swords and the spears. They will use them to make their fires. They will have enough wood for seven years of fires." 
Ezekiel39:10 They will not have to go into the fields or forests to find wood. They will rob things from those who robbed them, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel39:11 They will bury Gog in the valley east of the sea. They will bury Gog and all his armies there. So men will not be able to walk through this valley. They will call it the Valley of Hamon Gog (Gog's army). 
Ezekiel39:12 Israel's people will need seven months to bury all the dead bodies. Then the land will be clean. 
Ezekiel39:13 All the people in the country will bury the dead bodies. They will always remember that day, the day that I won the fight. They will give me glory, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel39:14 They will choose some men to clean the land. They will travel through all the country. Other men will bury the dead bodies that remain on the ground. They will begin to do this at the end of the seven months. 
Ezekiel39:15 The men who walk through the country will find dead men's bones. They will put a sign by each one. Then the men who bury the bodies will bury them in the Valley of Hamon Gog. 
Ezekiel39:16 (A town called Hamonah is also there.) That is how they will make the land clean.” 
Ezekiel39:17 Son of man, this is what the Lord God says: Shout to all kinds of birds and wild animals, “Come here from all the country to eat the meal that I have prepared for you. It is a great sacrifice on Israel's mountains. There you will eat meat and you will drink blood." 
Ezekiel39:18 You will eat the meat of great men and you will drink the blood of kings. You will eat them like the fat sheep, cows and animals from Bashan that you eat." 
Ezekiel39:19 At this sacrifice, you will eat so much fat that you cannot eat any more. You will drink so much blood that you become drunk." 
Ezekiel39:20 I will give you horses and their riders to eat. I will give you great men and many kinds of soldiers to eat,” says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel39:21 I will show my glory to all the nations. They will see that I can punish people. And they will know that I decide how and when to punish them. 
Ezekiel39:22 From that time and for all the time after that, Israel's people will know that I am the Lord their God." 
Ezekiel39:23 And the nations will know that I sent Israel's people away from their country. They will know that I punished my people because of their sin. They had not been faithful to me so I turned away from them. I let their enemies take them and kill them with swords. 
Ezekiel39:24 I punished them because they had not kept themselves clean from sin. I hid myself from them because they had done so many evil things.’ 
Ezekiel39:25 So this is what the Lord God says. ‘Now I will bring back Jacob's descendants from the countries where they have been prisoners. I will be kind to all Israel's people. And I will make them see that I am holy. 
Ezekiel39:26 They will live safely in their own land. Nobody will cause them to be afraid. In the past, they were not faithful to me. They lived in a way that did not please me. Now they will be ashamed when they remember that time." 
Ezekiel39:27 I will bring them back from the lands where their enemies took them. The nations will see what I have done. So all the nations will know that I am holy. 
Ezekiel39:28 Then Israel will know that I am the Lord their God. I sent my people away to far countries. But I will bring them all back to their own country. I will not leave any behind. 
Ezekiel39:29 No longer will I turn away from them. I will pour my Spirit on Israel's people, says the Lord God.’" 
Ezekiel40:1 In the 25th year that we had been prisoners in Babylon, the Lord took hold of me with great power. It happened on the tenth day of the first month of the year. It was 14 years since Babylonian soldiers had destroyed the city of Jerusalem. In a vision, the Lord took me there." 
Ezekiel40:2 In the vision, he took me to the land of Israel. He put me on a very high mountain. When I looked towards the south, I saw a group of buildings that looked like a city." 
Ezekiel40:3 The Lord took me there. Then I saw a man who shone brightly like bronze. He was standing at the entrance of a building. He held a linen rope and a stick in his hand. He used them to measure things. 
Ezekiel40:4 The man said to me, ‘Son of man, watch and listen carefully to me. Remember everything that I will show you. God has brought you here so that I can show these things to you. Tell Israel's people about everything that you see.’" 
Ezekiel40:5 I saw a wall all the way round the place where the temple was. The stick in the man's hand was 3 metres long. He used it to measure the wall. The wall was 3 metres wide and 3 metres high. 
Ezekiel40:6 Then he went to the gate on the east side. He climbed its steps and he measured the size of the entrance. It was 3 metres deep. 
Ezekiel40:7 Beyond this was a passage with three rooms on each side. They were rooms for the guards. Each of these rooms was 3 metres long and 3 metres wide. The walls between the rooms were 2½ metres thick. Beyond them was a passage that was 3 metres long. This went to an entrance room to the yard of the temple. 
Ezekiel40:8 The man measured the entrance room at the end of the passage. 
Ezekiel40:9 It was 4 metres long. It had pillars that were 1 metre thick. It was the nearest part of the gate to the temple. 
Ezekiel40:10 The three rooms on each side of the passage at the east gate were all the same size. The walls that were between each room were also the same size. 
Ezekiel40:11 Then the man measured the passage that went through the gate's entrance. The passage was 6½ metres wide. The gate's entrance itself was 5 metres wide. 
Ezekiel40:12 There was a low wall in front of the rooms on each side of the passage. It was ½ metre high. The rooms were 3 metres square. 
Ezekiel40:13 The man also measured between the back wall of one room and the back wall of the room opposite. It was 12½ metres from one wall to the other wall, across the passage." 
Ezekiel40:14 The entrance room had pillars on the outside that were 30 metres high. The yard was all around three sides of the room. 
Ezekiel40:15 The passage was 25 metres long, from the gate at the front to the entrance room into the yard." 
Ezekiel40:16 The rooms for the guards all had small windows in their outside walls. The walls between the rooms also had small windows. The entrance room to the yard also had windows of the same kind. Men had cut pictures of palm trees on the inside walls of the passage. 
Ezekiel40:17 The man took me through the entrance gate into the outside yard of the temple. I saw 30 rooms there, all along the wall of the yard. A path of flat stones was in front of the rooms." 
Ezekiel40:18 The path went all around the yard and it covered the space between the gates. It was called the lower path. 
Ezekiel40:19 The man measured across the outside yard. He measured from the lower gate to the higher gate that went into the inside yard. The man measured 50 metres between the two gates. 
Ezekiel40:20 Then the man measured the gate on the north side of the outside yard. 
Ezekiel40:21 He measured the three rooms on each side of the passage and the walls between them. He also measured the entrance room itself. They all measured the same as those in the east gate. The whole entrance was 25 metres long and it was 12½ metres wide. 
Ezekiel40:22 The entrance room, the windows and the pictures of palm trees were the same as those in the east gate. Seven steps went up to the north gate. The entrance room into the yard was at the end of the passage." 
Ezekiel40:23 Opposite this gate, across the yard, was the gate to the inside yard. It was the same as on the east side. The man measured 50 metres between the two gates." 
Ezekiel40:24 Next, the man took me to the south side of the yard. I saw another gate there. The man measured the walls and the rooms in that entrance. They were the same size as the other walls and rooms." 
Ezekiel40:25 The rooms in this entrance had windows that were the same as those in the other entrances. The whole entrance was 25 metres long and it was 12½ metres wide. 
Ezekiel40:26 Seven steps went up to it. The entrance room to the yard was at the end of the passage. There were pictures of palm trees on the inside walls of the passage. 
Ezekiel40:27 The inside yard of the temple also had a gate on the south side. The man measured 50 metres between the two gates. 
Ezekiel40:28 The man took me through the south gate into the inside yard. He measured the gate. It was the same size as the gates in the outside wall. 
Ezekiel40:29 The rooms for the guards, the walls between them and the entrance room were the same size as the ones at the other gates. There were windows along its walls and in the entrance room. As at the other gates, the whole entrance was 25 metres long and 12½ metres wide." 
Ezekiel40:30 The entrance rooms around the inside yard were 12½ metres wide and 2½ metres long. 
Ezekiel40:31 The entrance room of this gate opened towards the outside yard. There were pictures of palm trees on the walls of the passage. Eight steps went up to this gate. 
Ezekiel40:32 The man took me to the east side the inside yard. He measured the gate. It was the same size as the other gates. 
Ezekiel40:33 The rooms for the guards, the walls between them and the entrance room were the same size as the ones at the other gates. There were windows along its walls and in the entrance room. The whole entrance was 25 metres long and 12½ metres wide." 
Ezekiel40:34 The entrance room of this gate opened towards the outside yard. There were pictures of palm trees on the walls of the passage. Eight steps went up to this gate. 
Ezekiel40:35 Then the man took me to the north gate. He measured it. It was the same size as the other gates," 
Ezekiel40:36 with rooms for the guards, their walls and an entrance room with windows. The whole entrance was 25 metres long and 12½ metres wide." 
Ezekiel40:37 The door of the entrance room opened towards the outside yard. There were pictures of palm trees on the walls of the passage, on both sides. Eight steps went up to this gate." 
Ezekiel40:38 There was a small building joined to the entrance room of the north gate. There was a door between this building and the entrance room. In that building, the priests washed the dead bodies of animals for burnt offerings." 
Ezekiel40:39 In the entrance room there were four tables, two on each side of the room. They killed the animals for sacrifices on these tables. They were animals for burnt offerings and also for sin offerings and for guilt offerings." 
Ezekiel40:40 There were four more tables outside the entrance room of the north gate. Two tables were on each side of the steps at the entrance. 
Ezekiel40:41 So there were eight tables on which they killed animals for sacrifices. Four tables were in the yard outside the entrance. Four tables were inside the entrance room. 
Ezekiel40:42 They had used stone to make four tables for the burnt offerings. These tables were 50 centimetres high. Their tops were 75 centimetres square. They put the knives and the other tools that they used to kill the animals on these tables. 
Ezekiel40:43 They put the meat for the offerings on the stone tables. There were hooks all around the inside walls of the room. Each hook was 7½ centimetres long. 
Ezekiel40:44 There were two rooms for singers that had doors to the inside yard. One was beside the north gate and its door opened towards the south. The other room was beside the south gate and its door opened towards the north. 
Ezekiel40:45 The man said to me, ‘The room beside the north gate is for the priests who take care of the temple." 
Ezekiel40:46 The room beside the south gate is for the priests who serve God at the altar. These priests are descendants of Zadok. They are the only descendants of Levi who may come near to the Lord to serve him.’ 
Ezekiel40:47 The man measured the inside yard. It was square, 50 metres long and 50 metres wide. There was an altar in front of the temple." 
Ezekiel40:48 The man took me into the entrance room of the temple building. He measured the walls on each side of the entrance. They were 2½ metres thick. The entrance was 7 metres wide. The walls on each side of the entrance were 1½ metres wide. 
Ezekiel40:49 The entrance room was 10 metres wide and 6 metres long. Steps went up to the entrance room. There were two pillars, one on each side of the entrance." 
Ezekiel41:1 Then the man took me into the big hall of the temple. He measured the walls on each side of the entrance. They were 3 metres thick. 
Ezekiel41:2 The entrance itself was 5 metres wide. The walls on each side were 2½ metres wide. The big hall was 20 metres long and 10 metres wide. 
Ezekiel41:3 Then he went into the inside room. He measured the walls at the entrance. They were 1 metre thick. The entrance was 3 metres wide. The walls on each side were 3½ metres wide. 
Ezekiel41:4 He measured the inside room. It was 10 metres long and 10 metres wide. It was at the back of the big hall. The man said to me, ‘This is the Most Holy Place.’" 
Ezekiel41:5 Then the man measured the wall of the temple. It was 3 metres thick. There were small rooms along the outside of the wall, all around the temple. Each room was 2 metres wide." 
Ezekiel41:6 The side rooms were on three levels. Each level had 30 rooms. The temple's wall at each level was less thick than the wall below. So the wall itself held up each level of rooms. They did not have to fix the side rooms into the temple's wall. 
Ezekiel41:7 The side rooms at each level were wider than the rooms on the level below them, because the temple's wall was less thick. There was a set of stairs that went from the lowest level to the middle level and up to the top level." 
Ezekiel41:8 I saw that there was a stone base all around the temple. The side rooms stood on this base as their foundation. It was 3 metres high. 
Ezekiel41:9 The outside wall of the side rooms was 2½ metres thick. There was an open space between these rooms and the rooms that the priests used. It was 10 metres wide, all around the temple building." 
Ezekiel41:10  
Ezekiel41:11 There were two doors for the side rooms. One door opened towards the north. The other door opened towards the south. They opened into a space that was 2½ metres wide. 
Ezekiel41:12 There was a large building at the west side of the temple yard. It was 37 metres wide and 47 metres long. Its walls were 2½ metres thick. 
Ezekiel41:13 Then the man measured the outside of the temple building. It was 50 metres long. He measured from the back of the temple across the open space to the back wall of the large building. That was also 50 metres. 
Ezekiel41:14 He measured the front of the temple building and the open space on each side. That was 50 metres too. 
Ezekiel41:15 He measured the building at the back of the temple yard, on the west side. That was also 50 metres, including the side rooms at each end. Wooden boards covered the walls of the big hall, the inside room and the entrance room of the temple." 
Ezekiel41:16 The boards covered the walls from the floor up to the windows, and above the windows. They used wood to make the edges of the windows. They also covered the windows." 
Ezekiel41:17 Workers had cut pictures in the wood above the doors and all over the walls. They were pictures of palm trees and cherubs. There was a picture of a palm tree between each cherub. They covered all the inside walls of the temple. Each cherub had two faces. 
Ezekiel41:18  
Ezekiel41:19 A human face looked towards the palm tree on one side. A lion's face looked towards the palm tree on the other side. Workers had cut these pictures on the walls around the inside of the whole temple building. 
Ezekiel41:20 The pictures of cherubs and palm trees covered all the walls, from the floor up to above the doors." 
Ezekiel41:21 There were square posts on each side of the entrance to the temple's big hall. The entrance to the Most Holy Place seemed to be the same. 
Ezekiel41:22 There was an altar that was made of wood. It was 1½ metres high and 1 metre wide on each side. Its corners, its sides and its base were all made of wood. The man said to me, ‘This is the table that stands here in front of the Lord.’" 
Ezekiel41:23 The big hall of the temple and the Most Holy Place both had doors that were in two parts. 
Ezekiel41:24 The doors were fixed on both sides of each entrance and they opened in the middle. 
Ezekiel41:25 Workers had cut pictures on the doors of the big hall. They were pictures of palm trees and cherubs, like the pictures on the walls. There was a roof over the outside of the door to the entrance room. It was made of wood." 
Ezekiel41:26 The entrance room had narrow windows in the walls on each side. The windows had pictures of palm trees on each side. Workers had cut shapes of palm trees on its walls. The side rooms around the temple also had roofs over the outside of their doors. 
Ezekiel42:1 Then the man took me out through the north gate of the inside yard of the temple. We went into the outside yard. We arrived at a building that was in the north wall of the inside yard. 
Ezekiel42:2 This building was 50 metres long and 25 metres wide. Its entrance was towards the north. 
Ezekiel42:3 There was a 10 metre space between one side of this building and the temple in the inside yard. The building's other side was opposite the path in the outside yard. It had three levels of rooms in two rows that were opposite each other. 
Ezekiel42:4 A path went between the two rows of rooms. It was 50 metres long and 5 metres wide. The entrances to the rooms were on the north side. 
Ezekiel42:5 The rooms at the top level were not as wide as the rooms below them. And the rooms at the middle level were not as wide as the rooms at the lowest level. This was because the higher rooms needed more space in front of them. 
Ezekiel42:6 They did not have pillars to hold them up as other rooms in the temple yards did. Instead, the walls of the lower rooms held up the rooms above them. So the rooms of each level were smaller than the rooms below them." 
Ezekiel42:7 There was a wall that went across the outside yard in front of the lowest rooms. The wall was 25 metres long. 
Ezekiel42:8 The row of rooms in the outside yard was also 25 metres long. But the other row of rooms in the inside yard, opposite the temple, was 50 metres long." 
Ezekiel42:9 The lowest level of rooms had an entrance from the outside yard at the east end of the building. 
Ezekiel42:10 This entrance was at the end of the wall in the outside yard. There was another building like this one on the south side of the temple. It was opposite the other building and it also had two rows of rooms. 
Ezekiel42:11 There was a path between the two rows. They looked the same as the rooms on the north side. The size of the rooms and the entrances were the same as those of the other building. 
Ezekiel42:12 There was an entrance in the wall opposite the doors of the inside row of rooms. There was also an entrance at the east end of the path between the rows of rooms. 
Ezekiel42:13 Then the man said to me, ‘These rooms that are on the north and south sides of the temple's inside yard are holy. They are for the priests who serve the Lord in his temple. In these rooms, the priests will eat the most holy sacrifices that they offer to the Lord. They will put the most holy offerings there. It is where they will put the grain offerings, the sin offerings and the guilt offerings. The priests will do that because the rooms are holy." 
Ezekiel42:14 When the priests go into the holy place of the temple, they must not leave until they change their clothes. Before they go into the outside yard, they must take off the special clothes that they wear to serve the Lord. Those clothes are holy, so they must put on other clothes. Then they can go out to the places where the people meet.’" 
Ezekiel42:15 The man finished measuring everything inside the place where the temple was. Then he took me out through the east gate. He measured all around the outside of the temple yards. 
Ezekiel42:16 He used his stick to measure the wall on the east side. It was 250 metres. 
Ezekiel42:17 Then he measured the north side and the south side and the west side. Each side measured the same as the east side. 
Ezekiel42:18  
Ezekiel42:19  
Ezekiel42:20 So the wall made a square around the place where the temple was. Each side was 250 metres. The wall made the holy place separate from the ordinary places around it. 
Ezekiel43:1 Then the man brought me to the east gate. 
Ezekiel43:2 There I suddenly saw the bright glory of the God of Israel as it came from the east. His voice was like the noise of lots of water that pours along a river. The land around shone with the bright light of his glory. 
Ezekiel43:3 I had seen a vision like this when I was beside the Kebar River. I had also seen a vision like this when God came to destroy Jerusalem. I bent down low with my face on the ground. 
Ezekiel43:4 The Lord 's bright glory went through the east gate into the temple. 
Ezekiel43:5 Then the Spirit lifted me up and took me into the temple's inside yard. As I watched, the Lord 's glory filled the temple." 
Ezekiel43:6 While the man stood beside me, I heard a voice come from inside the temple." 
Ezekiel43:7 The Lord said to me, ‘Son of man, this is the place where I sit on my throne. It is my home where I will live among Israel's people. Israel's people and their kings will never again spoil the honour of my holy name. They will not turn away from me and worship other gods. They will not put the graves of their kings in this place." 
Ezekiel43:8 Their kings built their palaces too near to my holy temple. There was only a wall between me and them. They did many disgusting things that spoiled the honour of my holy name. As a result, I became very angry with them and I destroyed them." 
Ezekiel43:9 Now they must be faithful to me. They must no longer worship other gods. They must not give honour to the graves of their kings. If they stop doing these things, I will live among them for ever." 
Ezekiel43:10 Son of man, you must describe the temple to Israel's people. It should make them ashamed of their sins. They must study the plan of the temple." 
Ezekiel43:11 Then they will be ashamed of everything that they have done. Explain the temple's plan to them. Describe its shape, its entrances, and everything about it. Explain its rules and its laws. You must write all this down while they watch you. Then they can study the temple's plan and they can obey its rules." 
Ezekiel43:12 This is the most important law about the temple: All the top of the mountain around the temple will be most holy. 
Ezekiel43:13 This is the size of the altar. There is a hole, 50 centimetres deep and 50 centimetres wide, all around the altar. There is a border around its outside edge, 25 centimetres high." 
Ezekiel43:14 The lowest part of the altar, from its base up, is 1 metre high. The part above that is 2 metres high. It is 50 centimetres smaller than the part below it, all around. The top part of the altar is also 50 centimetres smaller than the middle part." 
Ezekiel43:15 This top part is 2 metres high. They burn the sacrifices on this top part. Its four corners have points like horns that go up. 
Ezekiel43:16 The top of the altar is square, with each side 6 metres long." 
Ezekiel43:17 The middle part is also square, with each side 7 metres long. It has a border around its edge that is 25 centimetres high. There is a hole all around that is 50 centimetres wide. There are steps up to the top of the altar on the east side.’" 
Ezekiel43:18 Then he said to me, ‘Son of man, this is what the Almighty Lord says: These are the rules about the altar. On the day that it is ready to use, the priests will offer burnt offerings on it. They will also splash blood from the sacrifices on it." 
Ezekiel43:19 You must give a young bull to the priests to offer as a sacrifice to me. The priests must belong to Zadok's family in the tribe of Levi. They are the only men who can come near to me to serve me. That is what I, the Almighty Lord, say." 
Ezekiel43:20 You will take some of the bull's blood and put it on the four horns on the top of the altar. Also put some blood on the corners of the middle part of the altar. And put some on the border around the edge of the altar. Do that to make the altar clean and pure for me. 
Ezekiel43:21 You must take the bull to burn as a sin offering. Burn it in the proper place in the temple yard, outside the temple building." 
Ezekiel43:22 The next day, choose a male goat that has nothing wrong with it. Offer it as a sin offering. Use its blood to make the altar clean and pure, as you did with the bull's blood." 
Ezekiel43:23 After you have done that, choose a young bull and a male sheep that have nothing wrong with them." 
Ezekiel43:24 Bring them to me, the Lord. The priests will throw salt on them. Then they will offer them to me as a burnt offering." 
Ezekiel43:25 Each day for seven days, you must offer a male goat as a sin offering. You must also choose a young bull and a male sheep each day as sacrifices. They must all have nothing wrong with them." 
Ezekiel43:26 The priests will make the altar clean and pure on each of those seven days. That will make it ready for holy use. 
Ezekiel43:27 When the seven days have finished, the priests can begin to offer burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar. They can do this for you on the eighth day and each day after that. Then I will accept you as my own people. That is what I, the Almighty Lord, say.’" 
Ezekiel44:1 Then the man brought me back to the outside gate on the east side of the temple yard. But the gate was shut. 
Ezekiel44:2 The Lord said to me, ‘This gate must stay shut. Nobody may go through it. Nobody may open it again. The Lord, Israel's God, has gone through it. So it must stay shut." 
Ezekiel44:3 Only Israel's ruler is allowed to sit in the gate's entrance. He may sit there to eat a holy meal in front of the Lord. He may only go in and out through the entrance room of that gate.’ 
Ezekiel44:4 Then the man took me through the north gate of the temple yard. We went to the front of the temple building. As I watched, I saw that the Lord 's glory filled his temple. I bent down low with my face on the ground." 
Ezekiel44:5 The Lord said to me, ‘Son of man, listen to what I tell you. Think carefully about it. These are the rules and laws about the Lord 's temple. Understand about its entrances and the people who are allowed to go in and out of the temple." 
Ezekiel44:6 Israel's people refuse to obey me. So, say to them, “This is what the Almighty Lord says: Israel's people, you have done too many disgusting things!" 
Ezekiel44:7 You brought foreigners into my temple. They were not circumcised and they did not want to belong to me. In that way, you made my own temple unclean. You did that when you offered food, fat and blood to me there. You did not obey my covenant with you, when you did all these disgusting things." 
Ezekiel44:8 You did not take care of my holy things yourselves. Instead you chose foreigners to take care of my holy place on your behalf. 
Ezekiel44:9 This is what the Almighty Lord God says: No foreigner may go into my holy place if he is not circumcised and he does not want to obey me. Even if that foreigner lives among my people, the Israelites, he must not go in there." 
Ezekiel44:10 As well as other Israelites, some Levite men turned away from me to worship idols. I will punish them as they deserve for their sins." 
Ezekiel44:11 But they may continue to serve me in the work of the temple. They can be guards at the temple gates. They can kill the animals that people bring for burnt offerings and other sacrifices. They can help the people who come to worship me. 
Ezekiel44:12 But I promise that I will punish them as they deserve for their sin. That is because they helped the people to worship their idols. In that way, they caused Israel's people to do bad things. I, the Almighty Lord, promise that I will punish them." 
Ezekiel44:13 They must not come near to me to serve me as the priests do. They must not touch any of my holy things or the most holy offerings. Instead, they must be ashamed of the disgusting things that they have done." 
Ezekiel44:14 But I will allow them to take care of the temple and all the ordinary work that is done there. 
Ezekiel44:15 Only the priests who are descendants of Zadok, the Levite, may come near to me and serve me. When Israel's people turned away from me, only the priests of Zadok's family faithfully served me in my temple. So now Zadok's descendants may offer to me the fat and the blood of sacrifices. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel44:16 Only they can come into my holy place and serve me at the altar. They will do what I tell them to do. 
Ezekiel44:17 When they come through the gates into the inside yard, they must wear linen clothes. The clothes that they wear while they serve me must not have any wool in them. They must wear linen clothes when they work at the gates of the inside yard or in the temple." 
Ezekiel44:18 They must wear linen cloths around their heads. The trousers that they wear next to their skin must also be made of linen. They must not tie anything around their body that makes them sweat. 
Ezekiel44:19 Before they go out to the outside yard to meet the ordinary people, they must take off their special clothes. They must leave the clothes that they wore when they were serving me in one of the rooms in the holy place. They must put on other clothes before they go out. Then their special clothes will not touch the people and make them holy." 
Ezekiel44:20 The priests must not cut all the hair off their heads. They must not let it grow long either. They must keep their hair short. 
Ezekiel44:21 When a priest goes into the inside yard of the temple, he must not drink any wine." 
Ezekiel44:22 Priests must not marry a widow, or a woman whose husband has sent her away. They may only marry Israelite women who have never had sex. Or they may marry a widow whose husband had been a priest." 
Ezekiel44:23 They must teach my people that holy things are different from ordinary things. They must also show them how to know if something is clean or unclean. 
Ezekiel44:24 If people have an argument, the priests must be their judges. They must use my laws to decide who is right. They must obey the rules about my special festivals. They must respect Sabbath days as holy." 
Ezekiel44:25 A priest must not go near to a dead person. It would make him unclean. But if the dead person is his father, his mother, his son, his daughter, his brother or his sister who has not married, he may go near them. It makes him unclean but he may do that." 
Ezekiel44:26 After this, he must make himself clean. Then he must wait seven days." 
Ezekiel44:27 Then he can go into the inside yard of the temple to serve me there. On the day that he goes back there, he must make a sin offering for himself. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel44:28 Do not give the priests their own land in Israel to keep for their descendants. I myself will be the gift that they receive. I will take care of them and their families. 
Ezekiel44:29 They will receive the grain offerings, the sin offerings and the guilt offerings. They are allowed to eat some of those offerings that the people bring. All the special things that people give to the Lord will belong to the priests." 
Ezekiel44:30 The best of all the first crops from people's land and all their special gifts will belong to the priests. You must also give to the priests the first flour that you make from your grain. Then I will bless the people who live in your house. 
Ezekiel44:31 The priests must not eat any bird or any animal that people find dead. They must not eat anything that a wild animal has killed.” ’ 
Ezekiel45:1 ‘You must divide the land into different parts to belong to each tribe. When you do this, you must give one part to the Lord. It will belong to the Lord as a holy piece of land. It will be 12½ kilometres long and 10 kilometres wide. All of this land will be holy." 
Ezekiel45:2 Part of this land will be for the temple. It will be 250 metres long and 250 metres wide. Keep an empty space 25 metres wide all around this piece of land. 
Ezekiel45:3 Inside the holy piece of land, measure a part that is 12½ kilometres long and 5 kilometres wide. This part will contain the temple, the most holy place." 
Ezekiel45:4 The priests will have this holy part of the land. They are the men who work in the temple and come near to the Lord to serve him. The priests' houses will be there, as well as the temple." 
Ezekiel45:5 The other half of the holy piece of land will be for the Levites, who work in the temple. They will have towns there to live in. Their land will be 12½ kilometres long and 5 kilometres wide." 
Ezekiel45:6 There will also be a piece of land for the city, 12½ kilometres long and 2½ kilometres wide. It will be beside the holy piece of land. Any of Israel's people may live there." 
Ezekiel45:7 There will be two pieces of land for the ruler. One piece will be on the east side of the holy piece of land and the land for the city. The other piece will be on the west side. The piece on the west side will go as far as the sea. The piece on the east side will go as far as the border of the land. So his land will be as long as a part of the land that belongs to each tribe. 
Ezekiel45:8 This will be the part of Israel's land that belongs to the ruler. Because my rulers will have their own land, they will no longer need to make my people suffer. They will give to each tribe a part of the land that will belong to them." 
Ezekiel45:9 The Almighty Lord says this: Rulers of Israel, stop cheating my people and making them suffer! You have done enough bad things! Instead, do things that are right and fair. Stop chasing my people off their land. That is what the Almighty Lord says." 
Ezekiel45:10 You must use correct measures for size and for weight. 
Ezekiel45:11 The ephah that you use to measure dry things must be the same measure that you use for wet things. Ten ephahs will be equal to one homer. 
Ezekiel45:12 20 gerahs will be equal to one shekel. 60 shekels will be equal to one mina. 
Ezekiel45:13 This is the offering that you must give. Take from your harvest one homer from every 60 homers of wheat or barley. 
Ezekiel45:14 Take one litre of olive oil from every 100 litres. 
Ezekiel45:15 Take one sheep from every 200 sheep that feed on the grass in Israel. These gifts will be for grain offerings, for burnt offerings and for friendship offerings. These offerings will cause me to forgive you for your sins. I, the Almighty Lord, tell you to do this." 
Ezekiel45:16 All Israel's people must bring these offerings to the ruler of Israel. 
Ezekiel45:17 The ruler must provide the animals for the burnt offerings. He must provide the grain for the grain offerings and the wine for the wine offerings. He must provide these things for the holy festivals that I have chosen for Israel's people. Those include feasts for the new moon and for the Sabbath days. He must provide these things for the sin offerings, the grain offerings, the burnt offerings and the friendship offerings. They will cause me to forgive the sins of Israel's people." 
Ezekiel45:18 This is what the Almighty Lord says: Each year, on the first day of the first month, you must offer a young bull as a sacrifice. It must not have anything wrong with it. This sacrifice will cause the temple to be clean." 
Ezekiel45:19 The priest will take some of the blood of this sin offering and he will put it on the posts of the temple doors. He must also put some of the blood on the four corners on the top of the altar. He must also put some blood on the gate posts at the entrance to the inside yard of the temple. 
Ezekiel45:20 You must also do this on the seventh day of the first month. That will cause me to forgive anyone who has done a wrong thing by mistake. Perhaps they did not know that it was a sin. In this way you will make the temple a clean place for me. 
Ezekiel45:21 Each year, on the 14th day of the first month, you must start the Passover festival. The festival will continue for seven days. During that time you must not eat any bread that has yeast in it." 
Ezekiel45:22 On the first day of the festival, the ruler must provide a bull as a sin offering. It is an offering for himself and for all the people of Israel." 
Ezekiel45:23 Every day of the feast he must provide seven young bulls and seven male sheep for burnt offerings to the Lord. The animals must have nothing wrong with them. Each day of the festival, he must also give a male goat as a sin offering." 
Ezekiel45:24 With each bull and each sheep, the ruler must also provide an ephah of grain. He must provide a hin of olive oil with each ephah of grain." 
Ezekiel45:25 You will have another festival that starts on the 15th day of the 7th month. It will continue for seven days. Each day, the ruler must provide the same things for sin offerings, burnt offerings and grain offerings, as well as the olive oil.’" 
Ezekiel46:1 ‘This is what the Almighty Lord says: The gate of the temple's inside yard that opens to the east must stay shut for the six days that you work. You must only open it on each Sabbath day and on the day of each new moon. 
Ezekiel46:2 On those days, the ruler will go through the entrance room for this gate. It is his way in from the outside yard. He must stand beside the posts of the gate. The priests will then offer the ruler's burnt offering and his friendship offerings. The ruler will bend down low to worship me while he stands at the gate. Then he will go out. But they must not shut the gate until the evening." 
Ezekiel46:3 On Sabbath days and on new moon days, the people must stand in front of the east gate. They will bend down low to worship me, the Lord." 
Ezekiel46:4 Every Sabbath day, the ruler will bring six lambs and a male sheep as a burnt offering to the Lord. These animals must have nothing wrong with them." 
Ezekiel46:5 The ruler will also bring grain offerings. He will offer an ephah of grain with the male sheep. For each of the lambs, he may give as much grain as he chooses. For each ephah of grain, he will offer a hin of olive oil." 
Ezekiel46:6 On the day of the new moon the ruler must offer a young bull, six lambs and a male sheep. These animals must have nothing wrong with them." 
Ezekiel46:7 He will also bring grain offerings. He will offer an ephah of grain with the bull and an ephah with the sheep. For each of the lambs, he may give as much grain as he chooses. For each ephah of grain, he will offer a hin of olive oil." 
Ezekiel46:8 When the ruler goes in, he must go through the gate's entrance room. And he must go out the same way." 
Ezekiel46:9 The people will come to the temple to worship the Lord at the times of the festivals. If they come in through the north gate they must go out through the south gate. And if they come in through the south gate they must go out through the north gate. Nobody may go out of the gate through which he came in. He must go out by the opposite gate. 
Ezekiel46:10 When the people go in, the ruler will go in with them. When the people go out, the ruler will also go out." 
Ezekiel46:11 At the times of festivals and on other special days, the grain offering with each bull and each sheep will be an ephah. For each of the lambs, a person may give as much grain as they choose. They will give a hin of olive oil with each ephah of grain." 
Ezekiel46:12 The ruler may choose to make a special gift to the Lord. It may be a burnt offering or a friendship offering. They must open the east gate of the inside yard for the ruler. He will make his offering at the gate, as he does on Sabbath days. Then he must go out. After he has left, they will shut the gate." 
Ezekiel46:13 Every day, you must provide a lamb that is one year old and that has nothing wrong with it. Offer it to the Lord as a burnt offering. You must do that every morning, day after day." 
Ezekiel46:14 With the lamb, you must give a grain offering. It will be one sixth of an ephah of grain. Mix a third of a hin of olive oil with the flour. This rule about the grain offering to the Lord will never change." 
Ezekiel46:15 You must offer the lamb, with the grain offering and the olive oil, for a burnt offering every morning." 
Ezekiel46:16 This is what the Almighty Lord says: The ruler may choose to give some of his land as a gift to one of his sons. If he does that, the land will belong to his son and to his descendants. It will always belong to their family." 
Ezekiel46:17 The king may also choose to give some of his land to one of his servants. If he does that, the servant can keep the land until the year of Jubilee. After that, the land will belong to the ruler again. The ruler's land will always belong to the ruler and to his descendants." 
Ezekiel46:18 The king must not take for himself any land that belongs to the people. He must not take them away from their own land. He can only give his own land to his sons. Nobody may take any of my people away from the land that belongs to them.’ 
Ezekiel46:19 The man took me through the entrance beside the gate. We came to the holy rooms that belong to the priests. These rooms opened to the north. He showed me a place at the west end of these rooms. 
Ezekiel46:20 He said to me, ‘This is the place where the priests will cook the meat for the sin offerings and for the guilt offerings. They will bake the grain offerings here, too. In this way, they will not have to take these holy things into the outside yard. If they did that, someone might touch them and become holy.’" 
Ezekiel46:21 Then the man took me to the outside yard. He took me around the yard to see its four corners. In each corner I saw that there was a small yard 
Ezekiel46:22 These four small yards were 20 metres long and 15 metres wide. They were all the same size. 
Ezekiel46:23 They had stone walls around them. At the bottom of the walls they had made places for fires to burn. 
Ezekiel46:24 The man said to me, ‘The temple servants will use these rooms to cook meat that the people bring for sacrifices.’" 
Ezekiel47:1 The man brought me back to the entrance of the temple. There I saw water that was pouring out from under the entrance. It was pouring towards the east. (The front entrance of the temple opened towards the east.) The river of water came from under the south side of the temple. It went past the south side of the altar. 
Ezekiel47:2 The man took me out through the north gate of the temple. We went around the outside to the gate that opens towards the east. There I saw a small stream of water. It was coming out from the south side of the gate. 
Ezekiel47:3 The man went towards the east. He measured 500 metres in that direction. He took me through the water there. The water was as high as my ankles. 
Ezekiel47:4 Then he measured another 500 metres along the stream. He took me through the water again. Here, the water was as high as my knees. He measured another 500 metres. He took me through the water and it was now as high as my belt." 
Ezekiel47:5 Then he measured another 500 metres. Here the water had become a deep river. It was too deep for me to go across. Nobody could walk through it. They would need to swim. 
Ezekiel47:6 The man said to me, ‘Son of man, you must remember what you have seen.’ Then he took me back to the river's edge." 
Ezekiel47:7 When I got there, I saw very many trees. They were on each side of the river." 
Ezekiel47:8 He said to me, ‘This river of water goes towards the land in the east. It goes into the valley of the Jordan River. Then the water goes into the Salt Sea. When it goes into the sea there, the water becomes pure instead of salty." 
Ezekiel47:9 Wherever the river goes, many kinds of animals and fish will live. There will be lots of fish in the Salt Sea because the water that goes in there will make it pure. There will be many living things in places where the river goes." 
Ezekiel47:10 Men will stand on the edge of the sea to catch fish. They will use their nets to catch fish, all the way from En-Gedi to En-Eglaim. They will catch many kinds of fish, like the fish of the Mediterranean Sea." 
Ezekiel47:11 But the water in the pools and the wet places around the Salt Sea will not become pure. There will still be salt for people there. 
Ezekiel47:12 All kinds of fruit trees will live on each side of the river. Their leaves will never become dry. They will always give fruit every month. This is because the water that feeds them comes from the holy temple. The fruit from these trees will provide food. And their leaves will make sick people well.’ 
Ezekiel47:13 This is what the Almighty Lord says: ‘This is the land that you will share among Israel's 12 tribes. Give one part to each tribe, but Joseph's descendants will have two parts." 
Ezekiel47:14 Share the land in equal parts for each tribe. I promised your ancestors that I would give them this land to live in. So now it will belong to you and your descendants. 
Ezekiel47:15 These will be the borders of your land: The north border goes from the Mediterranean Sea to the city of Hethlon. It continues to go east, past Lebo-Hamath and to Zedad." 
Ezekiel47:16 From there, it continues through Berothah and Sibraim. Those towns are on the border between Damascus and Hamath. Then it goes as far as Hazer-Hattikon, which is on the border of Hauran." 
Ezekiel47:17 The border goes from the Mediterranean Sea to Hazar-Enan. The border of Hamath is on the north side and the border of Damascus is on the south side. That is the north border of your land. 
Ezekiel47:18 On the east side, the border of your land is the Jordan River. It starts between Hauran and Damascus. It goes between the region of Gilead and Israel's land, past the Salt Sea as far as Tamar. That is the east border." 
Ezekiel47:19 On the south side, the border goes from Tamar to the springs of water near Meribah Kadesh. Then it goes along the Stream at Egypt's border to the Mediterranean Sea. That is the south border." 
Ezekiel47:20 On the west side, the Mediterranean Sea is the border of your land. It goes north to a place on the west side of Lebo-Hamath. That is the north border of your land." 
Ezekiel47:21 You must share this land among yourselves so that each tribe of Israel receives a part. 
Ezekiel47:22 Each part that you receive will belong to you and to the foreigners who live among you. Those foreigners have given birth to their own children among you. Accept them as if they were born as Israelites. They must receive land for themselves among Israel's tribes. 
Ezekiel47:23 Give them land among the tribe where they have decided to live.’ That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Ezekiel48:1 ‘This is the list of Israel's tribes, with the land that each tribe will receive: Dan will receive land at the north border of Israel. Their north border goes east from the Mediterranean Sea along the road to Hethlon, as far as Lebo-Hamath. From there, it goes to Hazar-Enan, on the border between Damascus and Hamath. Dan's part of the land goes all the way from Israel's border in the east to the Mediterranean Sea in the west." 
Ezekiel48:2 South of Dan's land will be the land for Asher. 
Ezekiel48:3 South of Asher's land will be the land for Naphtali. 
Ezekiel48:4 South of Naphtali's land will be the land for Manasseh. 
Ezekiel48:5 South of Manasseh's land will be the land for Ephraim. 
Ezekiel48:6 South of Ephraim's land will be the land for Reuben. 
Ezekiel48:7 South of Reuben's land will be the land for Judah. 
Ezekiel48:8 South of Judah's land will be a special part of the land, with the temple in the middle of it. From east to west, it will be the same size as the parts of the land for Israel's tribes. From north to south, it will be 12½ kilometres." 
Ezekiel48:9 The part that belongs to the Lord for his temple will be 12½ kilometres long and 10 kilometres wide. 
Ezekiel48:10 The priests will have a part of this holy land. Their part will measure 12½ kilometres from east to west. It will measure 5 kilometres from north to south. The Lord 's temple will be in the middle of this part. 
Ezekiel48:11 This holy part of the land will belong to the priests who are descendants of Zadok. They are the priests who served me faithfully. They did not turn away from me as the other Levites did when Israel's people did not obey me. 
Ezekiel48:12 So the priests will have that special part of the land, next to the part for the Levites. The priests' part will be the most holy part of the land." 
Ezekiel48:13 The Levites will also have a special part, south of the part for the priests. It will be the same size. It will measure 12½ kilometres from east to west, and 5 kilometres from north to south. So the land for the priests and for the Levites will be 12½ kilometres from east to west and 10 kilometres from north to south." 
Ezekiel48:14 The special part of the land that belongs to the Lord is the best of the whole land. You must not give his land to anyone else or sell it to anyone else. It is holy and it belongs to the Lord. 
Ezekiel48:15 The other part of the special land is 12½ kilometres from east to west and 2½ kilometres from north to south. That part is not holy. Ordinary people may use it. They may live there and use the fields. There will be a city in the middle of it. 
Ezekiel48:16 The city will be square, 2,250 metres long on each side." 
Ezekiel48:17 You must leave an open space 125 metres wide on each side of the city. 
Ezekiel48:18 There will be two other pieces of land south of the special holy land. There will be a piece 2½ kilometres wide on the east side of the city and a piece 2½ kilometres wide on the west side. People who live in the city may use these pieces of land to grow crops. 
Ezekiel48:19 There will be people from the different tribes of Israel who live in the city. Any of them may use the land to grow things. 
Ezekiel48:20 The whole of the special land, including the holy part and the part for the city, will be a square. Each side will be 12½ kilometres." 
Ezekiel48:21 The parts of land on each side of the square will belong to the ruler. The part on the east side will go as far as Israel's border in the east. The part on the west side will go as far as the Mediterranean Sea. The holy part of land where the temple is will be in the middle, between them." 
Ezekiel48:22 The land that belongs to the Levites and the priests, as well as the city, will be between the two parts of land that belong to the ruler. The land for Judah will be on the north side of these lands. The land for Benjamin will be on the south side." 
Ezekiel48:23 The other tribes will each have a part of the land that is south of this special part. The land for each of these tribes will go all the way from Israel's border in the east to the Mediterranean Sea in the west. South of the special land will be the land for Benjamin. 
Ezekiel48:24 South of Benjamin's land will be the land for Simeon. 
Ezekiel48:25 South of Simeon's land will be the land for Issachar. 
Ezekiel48:26 South of Issachar's land will be the land for Zebulun. 
Ezekiel48:27 South of Zebulun's land will be the land for Gad. 
Ezekiel48:28 The border on the south side of Gad's land goes from Tamar to the springs of water near Meribah Kadesh. From there, it goes along the stream at Egypt's border to the Mediterranean Sea." 
Ezekiel48:29 That is how you must divide the land among Israel's tribes. Each part will belong to one tribe and their descendants. I, the Almighty Lord, say this." 
Ezekiel48:30 These will be the entrance gates on each side of the city. The wall on the north side of the city will be 2,250 metres long." 
Ezekiel48:31 There will be three gates on that side. Each gate will have the name of one of Israel's tribes, one for Reuben, the next for Judah, and the next for Levi." 
Ezekiel48:32 The wall on the east side will also be 2,250 metres long. The three gates on that side will be for Joseph, for Benjamin and for Dan." 
Ezekiel48:33 The wall on the south side will also be 2,250 metres long. The three gates on that side will be for Simeon, for Issachar and for Zebulun." 
Ezekiel48:34 The wall on the west side will also be 2,250 metres long. The three gates on that side will be for Gad, for Asher and for Naphtali." 
Ezekiel48:35 So the walls all around the city will measure 9,000 metres. From that time on, the name of the city will be, “The Lord is there.” ’" 
Daniel1:1 King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon came to Jerusalem with his army. He put his soldiers around the city to attack it. This happened when Jehoiakim had been king of Judah for nearly three years. 
Daniel1:2 The Lord God gave Nebuchadnezzar power over King Jehoiakim. Nebuchadnezzar took away some special things that belonged in God's temple in Jerusalem. He took those things back to Babylon. He put them among the valuable things in the temple of his own god. 
Daniel1:3 Nebuchadnezzar had an officer who was called Ashpenaz. Ashpenaz had authority over the king's other officers. One day, Nebuchadnezzar said to Ashpenaz, ‘Bring some of the Israelite men to me. Choose some men from the king of Judah's family, and choose some men from the other important Israelite families.’" 
Daniel1:4 Nebuchadnezzar wanted young men who were strong and handsome. They must be clever so that they could learn and understand things quickly. They must be good enough to become King Nebuchadnezzar's servants. They would learn the language of Babylon, and they would read its books." 
Daniel1:5 Every day, King Nebuchadnezzar sent special food for these men to eat. It was the same food and wine that he had for himself. His officers would teach the young men for three years. After that, the young men would be ready to serve the king." 
Daniel1:6 Some of the young men from Judah that Ashpenaz chose were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah." 
Daniel1:7 The king's officer gave new names to them. Daniel was called Belteshazzar. Hananiah was called Shadrach. Mishael was called Meshach. Azariah was called Abednego. 
Daniel1:8 But Daniel decided that God did not want him to eat the king's food and wine. He knew that it might be against God's rules. So he asked the king's special officer that he might not have to eat the king's food. 
Daniel1:9 God had already caused the officer to like Daniel and to be kind to him. 
Daniel1:10 But the officer said to Daniel, ‘I am afraid of the king, who is my master. He has chosen the food that he wants you to eat. If you eat different food, you might become weaker than the other young men. If the king sees that, he might kill me!’" 
Daniel1:11 The officer had chosen a guard to watch Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah. So Daniel spoke to this man." 
Daniel1:12 He said, ‘Please sir, watch us for ten days. Give us only vegetables to eat and water to drink." 
Daniel1:13 After ten days, see what our faces and our bodies look like. Also see what the other young men who eat the king's food look like. When you look at them and you look at us, you can decide what to do with us.’" 
Daniel1:14 The guard agreed to what they said. He watched them for ten days. 
Daniel1:15 After ten days, their faces seemed more handsome than the young men who ate the king's food. Their bodies also seemed to be fatter." 
Daniel1:16 So the guard no longer gave them the king's food and wine to eat. He gave vegetables and water to them instead. 
Daniel1:17 God helped these four young men to become clever and wise. While they studied, he helped them to learn from many different books. They could understand many things. Daniel could also understand the meaning of all kinds of dreams." 
Daniel1:18 King Nebuchadnezzar had said that the young men must study for three years. After that time finished, the king's officer took them to the king." 
Daniel1:19 The king spoke with all the young men. He discovered that there was nobody else like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah. So they became the king's servants." 
Daniel1:20 Whenever the king needed help to understand something important, these men showed how wise they were. They knew ten times more than any of the king's other wise men. Those men used magic or they studied the stars to know what would happen in the future. They came from all the different countries that Nebuchadnezzar ruled." 
Daniel1:21 Daniel lived in Babylon until the year when Cyrus became king. 
Daniel2:1 When Nebuchadnezzar had been king for two years, he had many dreams. He had trouble in his mind and he could not sleep." 
Daniel2:2 He told his servants that they must bring the magicians, enchanters, diviners and wise men to him. He wanted them to explain his dream. So they came in and they stood in front of the king." 
Daniel2:3 Then the king said to them, ‘I have had a dream that gives me trouble in my mind. I want to know what the dream means.’" 
Daniel2:4 Then the wise men answered the king. (This is in the Aramaic language.) They said, ‘King, live for ever! We are your servants. Tell us the dream. Then we will tell you what it means.’" 
Daniel2:5 The king replied to the wise men, ‘I have decided what to do. You must tell me what my dream was. Then you must tell me what it means. If not, I will punish you with death! My soldiers will cut you into pieces. They will knock down your houses so that they become heaps of stones." 
Daniel2:6 You must tell me about the dream and you must tell me what it means. If you do that, I will give to you many gifts and great honour. So you must tell me my dream, and tell me what it means.’" 
Daniel2:7 They answered the king again, ‘We are your servants, so please tell us your dream. Then we will tell you what it means.’" 
Daniel2:8 The king said to them, ‘You know that I will not change my mind. So you are just trying to get more time." 
Daniel2:9 If you do not tell me the dream, I will certainly punish you with death. You have agreed among yourselves to tell me lies. You want to deceive me until you can think of something better. So now, tell me the dream. Then I will believe you when you tell me what it means.’" 
Daniel2:10 The wise men answered the king, ‘There is nobody on earth who can know your dream! No king has ever asked anyone to do anything like this. No magician, enchanter or wise man could do that. Even the greatest and most powerful king has never asked anyone to do this." 
Daniel2:11 You are asking us to do something much too difficult! Nobody can do it, except the gods. And they do not live among men.’" 
Daniel2:12 This made the king very angry. So he said to his soldiers, ‘Kill all the wise men in Babylon.’" 
Daniel2:13 He sent a message to command them to kill all his wise men. Some men went to look for Daniel and his friends too. They wanted to punish them with death. 
Daniel2:14 But Daniel spoke carefully to Arioch. He was the captain of the king's soldiers who had gone to kill the wise men of Babylon. 
Daniel2:15 Daniel said to Arioch, ‘Why is the king's command so cruel?’ Then Arioch explained everything to Daniel." 
Daniel2:16 So Daniel went to see the king. He asked the king for more time. Then he would be able to tell the king what the dream meant. 
Daniel2:17 Then Daniel went to his home. He told his friends, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah what had happened." 
Daniel2:18 He told them that they should pray to God in heaven. They should pray that God would help them with this problem. They should ask God to keep them safe. Then they would not die with all the other wise men of Babylon. 
Daniel2:19 During the night, Daniel had a vision. God showed him the secret of the king's dream. Then Daniel praised the God of heaven." 
Daniel2:20 He said, ‘Praise God's great name for ever! He has great wisdom and great power." 
Daniel2:21 He makes things happen at the right time. He gives to some kings authority to rule. And he takes that authority away from other kings. He causes some people to become wise. He helps people to understand the things that they learn. 
Daniel2:22 He explains difficult problems and secret things. He knows about all things, even when they are in dark places. He himself lives in the light." 
Daniel2:23 My ancestors' God, I thank you and I praise you! You have made me wise and you have made me strong. We asked you to help us, and now you have shown me your answer. You have explained the king's problem to us. So I thank you.’" 
Daniel2:24 So Daniel went to see Arioch, the king's officer. The king had told Arioch to kill all the wise men of Babylon. But Daniel said to him, ‘Do not kill Babylon's wise men. Take me to the king. Then I will tell the king what his dream means.’" 
Daniel2:25 Then Arioch quickly took Daniel to meet the king. He said, ‘I have found this man, who is one of the people that you brought from Judah. He can tell you, sir, what your dream means.’" 
Daniel2:26 The king spoke to Daniel, whose other name was Belteshazzar. He asked Daniel, ‘Can you tell me my dream? And can you tell me what it means?’" 
Daniel2:27 Daniel answered the king, ‘Sir, your dream is a secret. No wise men, enchanters, magicians or diviners can tell you about it." 
Daniel2:28 But there is a God in heaven. He explains secret things. In your dream, he has shown you what will happen in future years. Now I will tell you the dream and the visions that you had while you lay on your bed." 
Daniel2:29 While you lay on your bed, you dreamed about future times. God explains secret things, and he has shown you what will happen in future years." 
Daniel2:30 I am not more wise than other people. But God has explained your secret dream to me, because he wants you to know what it means. He wants you to understand the thoughts in your mind.’" 
Daniel2:31 Daniel said, ‘In your dream, you saw in front of you a statue with a man's shape. It was very big and very bright. It frightened people very much." 
Daniel2:32 Its head was made from pure gold. The top of its body and its arms were made from silver. Its lower body was made from bronze. 
Daniel2:33 The statue's legs were made from iron. Its feet had parts made from iron and parts made from clay. 
Daniel2:34 While you looked, someone cut out a large stone from a mountain. But no human hand did this. The stone hit the statue on its iron and clay feet. The stone broke them into pieces." 
Daniel2:35 Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver and the gold all broke into pieces. They became like chaff that the wind blows away. Nobody could see any of those pieces any more. But the stone that had hit the statue became a large mountain. It filled the whole earth." 
Daniel2:36 That was your dream, King Nebuchadnezzar. Now we will tell you what it means." 
Daniel2:37 You are a great king who rules over other kings. The God of heaven has given you authority to rule. He has given you power, strength and honour." 
Daniel2:38 He has put all the people of this world, the wild animals and the birds under your power. He has given you authority to rule them all, in every place that they live. You are like the head of gold that you saw in your dream." 
Daniel2:39 After you, there will be another kingdom. It will not be as great as your kingdom. Then a third kingdom will come. It will be like the bronze part of the statue. It will also rule the whole earth." 
Daniel2:40 Then there will be a fourth kingdom. It will be as strong as iron which breaks everything into pieces. Like iron, that kingdom will destroy the other kingdoms." 
Daniel2:41 In your dream, you saw that the statue's feet and toes had parts of clay and parts of iron. This shows that this kingdom will not be united as one. Some parts will be strong, like iron. The iron that you saw shows that strength." 
Daniel2:42 But the iron parts of the statue were mixed with clay parts. This shows that the fourth kingdom will be strong in some parts and weak in other parts. 
Daniel2:43 You saw iron and clay that were mixed together. The two parts of that kingdom will try to become united by marriage. But that will not help them to stay together as one. Iron cannot mix properly with clay. 
Daniel2:44 During the time when those kings rule, the God of heaven will begin a new kingdom. That kingdom will continue for ever. No other people will ever have power over it. It will break up all those other kingdoms and it will destroy them. And it will continue for ever." 
Daniel2:45 You saw the stone that came from the mountain. It was not a human hand that cut it out. That stone broke the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver and the gold into pieces. In your dream, King Nebuchadnezzar, the great God has shown you what will happen in future years. I have told you the dream, and I have told you what it means. You can be sure that all this is true.’" 
Daniel2:46 Then King Nebuchadnezzar bent down with his face towards the ground. He gave honour to Daniel. He commanded his servants to offer sacrifices and to burn incense to praise Daniel. 
Daniel2:47 The king said to Daniel, ‘It is true that your God rules all other gods. He rules over kings and he explains secret things. I know this because you were able to explain this dream to me.’" 
Daniel2:48 Then the king made Daniel an important officer. He also gave Daniel many valuable gifts. He gave Daniel authority to rule over the whole region of Babylon. Daniel also became the most important officer with authority over all the wise men in Babylon. 
Daniel2:49 Daniel asked the king to give important jobs to Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. So the king gave them authority over the region of Babylon. But Daniel himself stayed in the king's palace." 
Daniel3:1 King Nebuchadnezzar caused his workers to make a gold statue. It was 30 metres high and 3 metres wide. He built it on the flat land called Dura, in the Babylon region." 
Daniel3:2 Then King Nebuchadnezzar sent a message to all his government officers. He told them to meet together in the place where the statue was. He wanted them to see that he had built a great statue. 
Daniel3:3 So all the officers came. Those were the rulers, the judges, the wise people, and all the leaders in the different regions of the Babylon nation. They all came together to give honour to the statue that King Nebuchadnezzar had built." 
Daniel3:4 Then an officer shouted aloud, ‘Listen to me, you people from every country and nation, who speak different languages! The king makes this command:" 
Daniel3:5 Listen for the sound of music from trumpets, flutes, lyres, harps or any other kind of music. When you hear the music, you must bend down low towards the ground. You must worship the gold statue that King Nebuchadnezzar has built." 
Daniel3:6 The king will punish anyone who does not do that. His soldiers will throw them immediately into a very hot fire.’ 
Daniel3:7 So, when all the people heard the different kinds of music, they obeyed. The people from every country and nation, who spoke different languages, all bent down low. They worshipped the gold statue that King Nebuchadnezzar had built." 
Daniel3:8 Then some wise men went to the king. They told him bad things against the Jews. 
Daniel3:9 They said to the king, ‘King, live for ever!" 
Daniel3:10 You made a rule. You said that everyone must listen for the sound of the special music. When they hear it, they must bend down and they must worship the gold statue." 
Daniel3:11 You said that you would punish everyone who does not obey you. You said you would throw them into the middle of a very hot fire. 
Daniel3:12 But there are some Jewish men who do not obey you. They are Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. You gave them authority to take care of everything in Babylon region. Those men do not respect your authority. They do not give honour to your gods. They do not worship your gold statue.’" 
Daniel3:13 When King Nebuchadnezzar heard this, he was very angry. He told his servants to bring Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego to him. So they brought those men to stand in front of the king." 
Daniel3:14 Nebuchadnezzar said to them, ‘Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, is it true that you do not give honour to my gods? And you do not worship the gold statue that I have built?" 
Daniel3:15 Next time you hear the sound of the special music, you must obey my rule. You must bend down and you must worship the statue that I have built. If you do not worship the statue, my servants will throw you immediately into the middle of a very hot fire. There is no god who can save you from my power.’" 
Daniel3:16 Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego answered the king, ‘King Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to say anything to show you that we are not guilty." 
Daniel3:17 We serve a great God. If you throw us into the very hot fire, he is able to keep us safe. Yes, sir, he will keep us safe from your power too." 
Daniel3:18 But even if he does not save us, we still would not serve your gods. And we will not worship the gold statue that you have built. We want you to understand that very clearly, sir.’" 
Daniel3:19 Then Nebuchadnezzar was even more angry with Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. His face became red. He said to his servants, ‘Make the fire in the oven seven times hotter than usual.’" 
Daniel3:20 He told the strongest men in his army, ‘Tie up Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. Then throw them into the very hot fire!’" 
Daniel3:21 So the soldiers tied up Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego with ropes. They were still wearing their coats, their hats and their other clothes when the soldiers took hold of them. The soldiers threw them into the middle of the hot fire with all their clothes on." 
Daniel3:22 The soldiers needed to obey the king in a hurry. The fire was very hot. As a result, flames from the fire killed the men who threw Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego into it." 
Daniel3:23 So the three men, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, fell into the middle of the hot fire. The ropes still held them very strongly." 
Daniel3:24 What King Nebuchadnezzar saw next surprised him very much. He jumped up and he shouted to his officers, ‘We tied up three men and we threw them into the fire. Isn't that right?’ The officers answered the king, ‘Yes, sir, we certainly did that.’" 
Daniel3:25 The king said, ‘But I see four men walking about in the fire! No ropes are holding them and the fire has not hurt them. The fourth man seems like a son of the gods.’" 
Daniel3:26 King Nebuchadnezzar went near to the door of the oven where the very hot fire was. He shouted aloud to the men inside, ‘Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, I see that you are servants of the powerful God who rules over everything. Now come out here!’ So Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego came out of the fire." 
Daniel3:27 Then the king's officers, his wise men and the government rulers and leaders came near to the three men. They saw that the fire had not hurt Shadrach, Meshach or Abednego. The fire had not even burnt their hair or their clothes. They did not even have any smell from the fire." 
Daniel3:28 Then King Nebuchadnezzar said, ‘ Praise the God that Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego serve! He sent his angel to keep his servants safe. They continued to trust in their God. So they did not obey the command that I had made as king. They would not agree to serve any other god except their own God. They would rather have died than worship any other god." 
Daniel3:29 No other god can save people like their God has done for them. So I make a command for the people of every nation who speak any language. They must never say anything against the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. If anyone does that, my soldiers will cut them into pieces. They will knock down those people's houses so that they become heaps of stones.’" 
Daniel3:30 Then the king gave more authority to Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego to rule in the region of Babylon." 
Daniel4:1 This is a message from King Nebuchadnezzar. I am sending this message to everyone in the world, the people in every nation, who speak every language. I hope that you all may have good and happy lives." 
Daniel4:2 I am happy to tell you about the powerful God who rules over everything. He has done miracles and great things for me. 
Daniel4:3 His miracles show his great strength. They are very powerful. His kingdom will continue for ever. He will always rule. 
Daniel4:4 I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at home in my palace. I was comfortable and happy. Everything was very good for me." 
Daniel4:5 Then I had a dream that made me very afraid. The thoughts in my mind gave me great trouble as I lay on my bed. 
Daniel4:6 So I told all the wise men in Babylon to come to me. I wanted them to tell me what the dream meant. 
Daniel4:7 When the magicians, enchanters, wise men and diviners came to me, I told them the dream. But none of them could tell me what the dream meant." 
Daniel4:8 Last of all, Daniel came to me and I told him the dream. I call him Belteshazzar, like my god's name. The spirit of the holy gods is in this man, Daniel." 
Daniel4:9 I said to him, ‘Belteshazzar, you are the leader of my wise men. I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you. I know that no secret is too difficult for you to explain. Here is the dream that I saw. Tell me what it means." 
Daniel4:10 This is the vision that I saw in my mind while I lay on my bed. I saw a tree there in front of me. It stood in the middle of the earth and it was very tall. 
Daniel4:11 The tree grew taller and stronger. Its top touched the sky, so that everyone in the world could see it." 
Daniel4:12 It had beautiful leaves and lots of fruits. There was enough food on it for everyone. Wild animals could live in its shade. Birds lived in its branches. It gave food for every living thing. 
Daniel4:13 The vision in my mind continued while I lay on my bed. I saw a holy angel who came down from heaven. 
Daniel4:14 The angel shouted aloud, “Cut down the tree. Cut off its branches. Tear off its leaves. Let its fruits go away to other places. The animals that are under the tree must run away. The birds that are in its branches must fly away." 
Daniel4:15 But leave the base of the tree and its roots in the ground. Tie iron and bronze round it. Then leave it there in the grass. Make him wet with dew from the sky. Cause him to live with the animals in the fields of grass. 
Daniel4:16 Take his human mind away from him. Instead, give him the mind of an animal for seven years." 
Daniel4:17 The holy angels who take care of the earth have decided this. It is their command. Now everyone will be sure that the powerful God above rules over human kingdoms. He gives authority to rule to anyone that he chooses. He causes humble men to rule as kings.” ’ 
Daniel4:18 Then I said to Belteshazzar, ‘This is the dream that I, King Nebuchadnezzar, had. Now, you must tell me what it means. None of the wise men in any region of my kingdom can tell me what it means. But you can tell me, because the spirit of the holy gods is in you.’" 
Daniel4:19 Daniel, whose other name was Belteshazzar, was upset for a short time. His thoughts caused him a lot of trouble. The king said, ‘Belteshazzar, do not let the dream or what it means cause you trouble.’ Then Belteshazzar answered the king. ‘Sir, I would like the dream to be about your enemies and not about you." 
Daniel4:20 You saw a tree that grew very tall and strong until its top touched the sky. Everyone in the world could see it. 
Daniel4:21 It had beautiful leaves and lots of fruits. There was enough food on it for everyone. The wild animals lived under its shade. The birds built their nests in its branches. 
Daniel4:22 You, the king, are like that tree. You have become great and strong. Your power reaches up to the sky. Your authority reaches to the ends of the world." 
Daniel4:23 In your dream, you saw a holy angel who came down from heaven. He said, “Cut down the tree and destroy it. But leave the base of the tree and its roots in the ground. Tie iron and bronze round it. Then leave it in the grass. Make him wet with dew from the sky. Cause him to live in the fields with the wild animals for seven years.”" 
Daniel4:24 Now sir, this is what the dream means. The powerful God above has decided what he will do to my lord, the king." 
Daniel4:25 People will chase you away from the city, so that you have to live with the wild animals. You will eat grass like cows do. Dew from the sky will make you wet. You will live in that way for seven years. Then you will understand that the powerful God above rules over human kingdoms. He gives authority to rule to anyone that he chooses." 
Daniel4:26 The command was to leave the base of the tree and its roots in the ground. This means that you will be king again later. But before that, you will have to understand that it is God in heaven who rules." 
Daniel4:27 So, King Nebuchadnezzar, please do as I suggest. Stop doing bad things. Start to do things that are right. Turn away from your sins. Instead, be kind to poor people. Then, perhaps, you will continue to be comfortable and happy.’" 
Daniel4:28 All this happened to King Nebuchadnezzar. 
Daniel4:29 One year later, he was walking on the flat roof of the king's palace in Babylon." 
Daniel4:30 The king said, ‘Look how great Babylon is! It is the city that I have built to be my home as king. It shows that I am a great and powerful king!’" 
Daniel4:31 While King Nebuchadnezzar was still boasting about his power, he heard a voice from heaven. It said, ‘I am speaking to you, King Nebuchadnezzar. I have taken away your authority to rule as king!" 
Daniel4:32 People will chase you away from the city so that you live with the wild animals. You will eat grass as cows do. I will cause you to live like that for seven years. Then you will understand that the powerful God above rules over human kingdoms. He gives authority to rule to anyone that he chooses.’ 
Daniel4:33 Immediately the message given to Nebuchadnezzar really happened. People chased him away from the city. He ate grass as cows do. Dew from the sky made his body wet. His hair grew very long, like the feathers of an eagle. His feet became like a bird's feet." 
Daniel4:34 ‘At the end of that time, I, Nebuchadnezzar, looked up towards heaven. My own mind returned to me again. I praised the powerful God above who lives for ever. I worshipped him as a great God. His kingdom will continue for ever. He will always have authority to rule." 
Daniel4:35 All the people on the earth seem like nothing to him. He does whatever he wants among the angels in heaven, and among the people on the earth too. Nobody can stop him. Nobody can ask him, “Why are you doing that?”" 
Daniel4:36 When my own mind returned to me, I also received my authority again as king. People respected me as a great king again. My officers and important men came back to work with me. I ruled again over my kingdom. I became even greater than I was before." 
Daniel4:37 Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise the King of heaven as a great God. He always does what is right and fair. When people are proud, he can cause them to become humble.’" 
Daniel5:1 King Belshazzar prepared a big party for 1,000 important people in his country. He drank wine with all of them." 
Daniel5:2 When he had drunk a lot of wine, he spoke to his servants. He commanded them to bring the valuable gold and silver cups, so that the people could drink from them. His father, King Nebuchadnezzar, had taken those cups from God's temple in Jerusalem. King Belshazzar wanted to drink from them, as well as his important friends, his wives and his other women." 
Daniel5:3 So his servants brought the gold and silver cups that had come from God's temple in Jerusalem. Then the king, his wives, his other women and all the important people drank wine from those cups." 
Daniel5:4 While they drank the wine, they praised their gods. Their gods were idols that were made from gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood and stone." 
Daniel5:5 While they were doing that, the fingers of a human hand appeared. They wrote on the wall of the king's palace, near the light that stood in the room. The king watched the hand while it wrote." 
Daniel5:6 When he saw it, his face became white. He was very afraid. His knees shook and his legs became weak." 
Daniel5:7 The king called for his enchanters, his wise men and his diviners to come. When they arrived, the king said to them, ‘Who can read these words? Who can tell me what they mean? Whoever can do that, I will make him great. I will put valuable purple clothes on him and he will have a gold chain around his neck. I will make him the third ruler in the kingdom.’" 
Daniel5:8 Then all the king's wise men came in, but they could not read the words. They could not tell the king what the words meant." 
Daniel5:9 So King Belshazzar became even more afraid. His face became even whiter. His officers did not know what to do. 
Daniel5:10 The king's mother heard the voices of the king and his officers. So she came into the room where they were having the party. She said to the king, ‘King, live for ever! Do not be afraid. Do not shake with fear!" 
Daniel5:11 There is a man in your kingdom who has the spirit of the holy gods in him. When your father was alive, this man showed that he was very wise, like the gods. He could understand secret things. Your father, Nebuchadnezzar, made him the leader of all the magicians, wise men, enchanters and diviners." 
Daniel5:12 His name was Daniel, but the king called him Belteshazzar. He was very clever and he knew many things. He could explain what dreams mean. He could find the answer to difficult problems. Send somebody to bring Daniel here. He will tell you what these words mean.’" 
Daniel5:13 So they brought Daniel to stand in front of the king. The king said to him, ‘Are you one of the men that my father, the king, brought here from Judah? Is your name Daniel?" 
Daniel5:14 I have heard that the spirit of the gods is in you. You are very wise and clever. I have heard that you understand many things. 
Daniel5:15 I told my wise men and enchanters to read these words. I asked them to tell me what the words mean. But they could not explain the message to me. 
Daniel5:16 I have heard that you can tell people what their dreams mean. And I have heard that you can find the answer to difficult problems. So can you read these words? Can you tell me what they mean? If you can do that, then I will put valuable purple clothes on you. You will have a gold chain around your neck. You will become the third ruler in the kingdom.’" 
Daniel5:17 Then Daniel answered the king, ‘You can keep your gifts for yourself. You can make someone else important. But I will read the words for the king, and I will tell him what they mean." 
Daniel5:18 I tell you this, King Belshazzar. The powerful God who rules over everything gave authority to your father, Nebuchadnezzar, to rule as king. God made him very great and very famous, so that he ruled with power. People respected him as a great king." 
Daniel5:19 Because God made him so great, the people in every nation, who spoke every language, were very afraid of King Nebuchadnezzar. If he wanted to kill someone, he could kill them. And if he wanted to save someone, he could let them live. If he wanted to make someone important, he did that. And if he wanted to make someone poor, he did that too." 
Daniel5:20 But he became very proud and he boasted about his power. So God took away his kingdom. People did not respect him any longer as king. 
Daniel5:21 They chased him away from his home. His mind became like an animal's mind. He lived with the wild donkeys. He ate grass like cows do. Dew from the sky made his body wet. He lived in that way until he understood that the powerful God above rules over human kingdoms. He learned that God gives authority to rule to anyone that he chooses. 
Daniel5:22 King Belshazzar, you are Nebuchadnezzar's son, and you knew all that. But you did not become humble." 
Daniel5:23 You thought that you were greater than the Lord of heaven. So you told your servants to bring the valuable cups that belong to God's temple. You yourself, your wives, your other women and your important friends drank wine from those cups. You praised your gods that were made from silver, gold, bronze, iron, wood and stone. Those are idols that cannot see or hear. They cannot understand anything. But you worshipped them instead of the true God. He is the God who gives life to you. He has power over everything that you do." 
Daniel5:24 Because of that, God sent the hand that wrote this message." 
Daniel5:25 These are the words: Mene, Mene, Tekel and Parsin." 
Daniel5:26 This is what the words mean: Mene means “counted”. It shows that God has counted the days of your kingdom. Now these days are finished. Your kingdom has come to an end. 
Daniel5:27 Tekel means “weighed”. It shows that God has weighed you. But the scales show that you are too light. 
Daniel5:28 Peres means “separate”. It shows that God has cut your kingdom into two separate parts. He has given it to the people from Media and Persia.’ 
Daniel5:29 When Belshazzar heard that, he caused his servants to put purple clothes on Daniel. They put a gold chain round his neck to show that he was an important person. The king told everyone that Daniel had become the third ruler in the kingdom." 
Daniel5:30 That same night, Belshazzar, the king of the Babylonians, died. His enemies killed him." 
Daniel5:31 Then Darius from Media received power to rule as king. He was 62 years old. 
Daniel6:1 King Darius decided to choose 120 men to rule the regions of his nation. Together, they would rule the whole kingdom." 
Daniel6:2 He also chose three other men to be his officers. He gave them authority over the 120 rulers. The king wanted to be sure that they were working well. Daniel was one of the three officers. 
Daniel6:3 Daniel did his work much better than the other officers and rulers. He was very good at his job. Daniel was so good that the king wanted to make him ruler over the whole kingdom. 
Daniel6:4 The other officers and rulers were jealous. They wanted to find something bad about Daniel so that they could tell the king. They watched how Daniel worked to serve the king. But they could not find that he did any wrong thing. That was because Daniel was good and honest. He always did everything properly. 
Daniel6:5 Then these men said to each other, ‘We cannot find anything that Daniel does wrong in his work. We must find something that he does to obey the laws of his God.’" 
Daniel6:6 So the officers and rulers agreed together what they would do. They went to the king and they said, ‘King Darius, live for ever!" 
Daniel6:7 All the officers in the kingdom have decided on a good idea. All the rulers, the judges, the wise people, and the leaders in the different regions agree. We think that the king should make a strong law. For 30 days, people must pray only to you, the king. If they pray to any other person or god, you must punish them. Your servants must throw them into the cave where your lions live." 
Daniel6:8 You should write down this law and then you should write your name on it, as king. Then it will be a law of the Medes and the Persians which nobody can change.’" 
Daniel6:9 King Darius agreed. He wrote his name on this new law. 
Daniel6:10 Daniel heard that the king had written this new law. Then he went home. He went upstairs to his room where the windows opened in the direction of Jerusalem. He bent down on his knees and he prayed to God, and he thanked God. He did that three times every day, in the same way that he had always done before." 
Daniel6:11 Then the officers and rulers who were jealous of Daniel went to see what he would do. They saw that Daniel was praying to God and he was asking God for help. 
Daniel6:12 So they went to tell the king about this. They said, ‘Remember that you wrote a new law. You commanded that for 30 days, nobody must pray to any god or person, except to you, the king. If anyone prays to someone else, your servants must throw them into the cave where your lions live.’ The king answered them, ‘It is true. It is a law of the Medes and the Persians and nobody can change it.’" 
Daniel6:13 Then the officers said to the king, ‘But Daniel does not obey your new law. He is one of the men that they brought here from Judah. He does not respect you or your law. He still prays three times every day to his God.’" 
Daniel6:14 When the king heard this, he was very sad. He tried to think of a way to save Daniel. Until sunset, the king thought about what he could do to save Daniel." 
Daniel6:15 Then the officers agreed together and they went back to the king. They said, ‘Remember, sir, that nobody can change a law that the king has made. It is a law of the Medes and the Persians.’" 
Daniel6:16 So the king commanded his men to take hold of Daniel. They threw Daniel into the cave where the lions lived. The king said to Daniel, ‘You have always continued to serve your God. I am sure that he will save you.’" 
Daniel6:17 They took a big stone and they covered the top of the lions' cave. The king put a mark on the stone with his ring of authority. He also marked it with the rings of his important men. This meant that nobody could move the big stone to save Daniel. 
Daniel6:18 Then the king returned to his palace. He ate no food. Nobody brought anything to him to give him pleasure. He was unable to sleep. 
Daniel6:19 The king got up very early in the morning, at sunrise. He hurried to the cave where the lions were." 
Daniel6:20 When he got near to the cave, he was very upset. He shouted to Daniel, ‘Daniel, you have continued to worship the living God, as his servant. Was your God able to save you from the lions?’" 
Daniel6:21 Then Daniel said to the king, ‘King, live for ever!" 
Daniel6:22 My God sent his angel, and he shut the lions' mouths. So the lions have not hurt me. God knows that I have done no wrong thing. I have not done anything to hurt you, the king, either.’" 
Daniel6:23 The king was very happy when he heard Daniel's voice. He told his servants that they must pull Daniel up out of the lions' cave. So they lifted him out. When they looked at him, they saw that the lions had not hurt him at all. Daniel had trusted in his God, so God had kept him safe." 
Daniel6:24 Then the king gave a command to his servants. They brought the jealous men who had said bad things against Daniel. They threw them into the lions' cave, together with their wives and their children. Before they reached the floor of the cave, the lions attacked them. They broke all their bones into pieces." 
Daniel6:25 After that, King Darius wrote to all the people of every nation, who spoke all languages. He wrote: ‘I hope that you all have good and happy lives." 
Daniel6:26 I have made a law for every part of my kingdom. All people must respect the God that Daniel serves. They must respect him with fear. He is the God who always lives. He will continue for ever. Nobody will ever destroy his kingdom. He will rule for ever. 
Daniel6:27 He rescues his people and he keeps them safe. He does powerful miracles in the heavens and on the earth. He has saved Daniel from the lions' power!’ 
Daniel6:28 So Daniel continued to have authority while Darius was king, and also when Cyrus from Persia became king." 
Daniel7:1 In the first year that King Belshazzar ruled Babylon, Daniel had a dream. He saw visions in his head while he lay on his bed. He wrote down what he saw in the dream." 
Daniel7:2 Daniel wrote, ‘I had a vision at night. I saw the four winds of the sky. They caused big waves in the great sea." 
Daniel7:3 Then four large animals came out of the sea. They were all different from each other. 
Daniel7:4 The first animal seemed like a lion, but it had the wings of an eagle. As I watched, someone pulled its wings off. They lifted it up and it stood on two feet like a man. They gave a man's mind to it." 
Daniel7:5 Then I saw a second animal. It seemed like a bear. It raised itself up on one side and it had three ribs between its teeth. Someone said to it, “Stand up and eat the meat from many bodies.”" 
Daniel7:6 Then I saw another animal. It seemed like a leopard, but it had four wings on its back. They were like a bird's wings. This animal had four heads. It received authority to rule." 
Daniel7:7 Then, while I looked, I saw a fourth animal in my vision. It was a terrible animal that was very strong. It had large iron teeth. It ate things and it broke them into pieces. It used its feet to stamp on everything else. It was different from the other animals. It had ten horns." 
Daniel7:8 I was thinking about the horns and what they might mean. Then I saw another little horn that came up among the other ten horns. It pulled out three of those other horns to make room for itself. This little horn had eyes that looked like a man's eyes. It had a mouth that spoke proud words. 
Daniel7:9 While I looked, people put some thrones in their places. Then the God who has ruled for ever sat on his throne. His clothes were as white as snow. His hair was white like pure wool. His throne and the wheels under it burned with flames of fire." 
Daniel7:10 A river of fire poured out from the place where he was sitting. Thousands of servants were ready to do whatever he wanted. Many more thousands stood around, ready to serve him. Then the meeting of the court began. Someone opened the books to see what was in them." 
Daniel7:11 I continued to watch as the little horn was speaking proud words. While I watched, someone killed the fourth animal. They threw its body into the fire. The fire destroyed it." 
Daniel7:12 The other animals also lost their power to rule, but they could continue to live for a certain time." 
Daniel7:13 I continued to watch in my vision at night and this is what I saw: I saw someone who seemed like a son of man. He was coming towards me, with the clouds of the sky around him. He came near to the God who has ruled for ever. People took him to stand in front of God." 
Daniel7:14 God gave him great honour and authority to rule as king. The people of all nations and those who spoke every language agreed to serve him. He has authority to rule for ever. He will never stop being king. Nobody will be able to destroy his kingdom. 
Daniel7:15 I, Daniel, had much trouble in my mind. The things that I saw in my vision frightened me." 
Daniel7:16 So I spoke to someone who was standing near God's throne. I asked him to explain what all these things meant. He told me the meaning of my vision. 
Daniel7:17 He said, “The four large animals are four kings. They will rule kingdoms on the earth." 
Daniel7:18 But the holy people of the Most High God will receive authority to rule as kings. God's kingdom will belong to them for ever.” 
Daniel7:19 Then I wanted to know about the fourth animal. It was different from all the other animals. It was a terrible animal that made me very afraid. It had large iron teeth and feet with sharp bronze claws. It ate things and it broke them into pieces. It used its feet to stamp on everything else. 
Daniel7:20 I wanted to know the meaning of the ten horns on its head. I also wanted to know about the little horn that came up among them. It pushed out three of the other horns. This horn had eyes, and a mouth that spoke proud words. The little horn seemed to be greater than the other horns." 
Daniel7:21 While I was watching, the little horn attacked God's holy people. It was winning the fight against them." 
Daniel7:22 But then the God who has ruled for ever arrived. As judge, he said that the holy people of the Most High God were good and right. Then the time came for God's holy people to receive the kingdom, so that it belonged to them." 
Daniel7:23 The person that I had asked told me this: “The fourth animal shows that there will be a fourth kingdom on the earth. It will be different from all the other kingdoms. It will use its power to destroy the whole earth. It will stamp on everything and break them into pieces. 
Daniel7:24 The ten horns show that ten kings will rule that kingdom. After them, another king will come to rule. He will be different from the other kings. He will get power over three kings." 
Daniel7:25 He will insult the Most High God. He will be cruel to God's holy people. He will try to change the days for God's festivals and the laws about them. God's people will be under his power for three and a half times. 
Daniel7:26 Then God's court will be ready to judge him. He will lose his authority to rule as king. That will be the end of his kingdom for ever! 
Daniel7:27 Then the holy people who belong to the Most High God will receive authority to rule as kings. They will have authority over all the kingdoms of the earth and all their great power. The kingdom of the Most High God will continue for ever. All rulers will serve him and obey him.” 
Daniel7:28 That is a report of everything that I saw in my vision. It caused me, Daniel, to have much trouble in my mind and my face became white. But I did not tell anyone about these things.’" 
Daniel8:1 In the third year that King Belshazzar ruled Babylonia, I, Daniel, had another vision. That was after the vision that I had seen before." 
Daniel8:2 In this vision, I saw that I was in the strong city of Susa, in Elam region. I was standing near the Ulai River." 
Daniel8:3 I looked up and I saw a male sheep that had two long horns. It was standing beside the river. One of its horns was longer than the other one. The longer horn came up later than the shorter horn. 
Daniel8:4 The sheep ran towards the west, the north and the south. He used his horns to push away all other animals. No other animal could stop him. Nobody could save them from his power. He did whatever he wanted to do. He boasted about his great strength." 
Daniel8:5 While I was thinking about this, I saw a male goat that was coming from the west. It ran quickly across the earth. Its feet did not even touch the ground. The goat had a large horn between its eyes." 
Daniel8:6 It came towards the male sheep that had two horns. I had seen that sheep as it stood beside the river. The goat was very angry. It ran to attack the sheep with all its strength. 
Daniel8:7 I saw it as it attacked the sheep. It was so angry that it hit the sheep very hard. It broke off the sheep's two horns. The sheep had no power to stop the goat. The goat knocked the sheep down to the ground and it stamped on the sheep. Nobody could save the sheep from the power of the goat. 
Daniel8:8 The male goat boasted even more about its power. Its large horn became very strong. But then the horn broke. Four other large horns came up in its place. Each of these horns pointed in a different direction. 
Daniel8:9 Then a little horn grew out of one of these large horns. It grew to become very big. Its power reached towards the south, towards the east and towards the Beautiful Land." 
Daniel8:10 Its power became so great that it reached up into heaven. It attacked heaven's army and the stars in the sky. It threw some of them down to the ground and it stamped on them. 
Daniel8:11 It boasted that it was more powerful than the Captain of heaven's army. It stopped people from offering their sacrifices to God each day. It destroyed God's temple. 
Daniel8:12 God's people accepted the rule of the horn, because they had turned against God. They offered their sacrifices to the horn, instead of to God. The horn stopped people from believing the truth. It was able to do everything that it wanted to do." 
Daniel8:13 Then I heard two angels as they talked to each other. One angel asked, ‘How long will the things in this vision continue to happen? How long will this disgusting thing stop the sacrifices each day? How long will it stand against God and stamp on his temple and his army?’" 
Daniel8:14 The other angel answered, ‘It will continue for 2,300 evenings and mornings. After that, God's temple will be clean again.’" 
Daniel8:15 When I, Daniel, had seen the vision, I tried to understand it. Then someone came to stand in front of me. He seemed like a man." 
Daniel8:16 I heard a person's voice. It was coming across the Ulai River. The voice said, ‘Gabriel, help this man to understand the vision.’" 
Daniel8:17 So Gabriel came towards me, where I was standing. I was very afraid and I fell down onto the ground. He said to me, ‘You, as a human, need to understand that the vision is about the end of time.’" 
Daniel8:18 While Gabriel spoke to me I was lying with my face on the ground. I was asleep. But he touched me and he caused me to stand up. 
Daniel8:19 Then he said to me, ‘I will tell you what will happen at the end of time. It will be a time when God is very angry. The vision shows what will happen at the time that God has chosen. That will be the time for everything to finish." 
Daniel8:20 You saw a male sheep with two horns. Those horns mean the kingdoms of Media and Persia. 
Daniel8:21 The male goat means the kingdom of Greece. The large horn between its eyes means the first king of Greece. 
Daniel8:22 When that large horn broke, four horns grew in its place. Those horns show that the nation of Greece will become four separate kingdoms. But they will not be as powerful as the first kingdom." 
Daniel8:23 Near the end of the time when those kings rule, the people will be completely wicked. Then a proud, cruel king will appear. He will deceive people." 
Daniel8:24 He will become very strong, but this will not be a result of his own power. He will completely destroy many things. He will be successful in everything that he does. He will destroy powerful leaders and the holy people who belong to God." 
Daniel8:25 Because he is clever, he will completely deceive people. He will boast about his power. People will think that they are safe, but he will kill many of them. He will stand against the Ruler of all rulers. But God will destroy him, without human help." 
Daniel8:26 This vision about the evenings and the mornings is true. I have told you what it means. But keep the vision as a secret now. It will be a long time before these things happen.’ 
Daniel8:27 After I, Daniel, saw this vision, I became very weak. I was sick for many days. Then I got up. I returned to my work to serve the king. The vision caused me to be very upset. I could not understand it." 
Daniel9:1 This is what happened in the first year that Darius ruled Babylonia. He was the son of Xerxes, a descendant of the Medes. He became the king of Babylonia." 
Daniel9:2 In the first year that Darius was king, I, Daniel, was reading God's book. I read the message that the Lord had given to his prophet, Jeremiah. He told Jeremiah that Jerusalem would continue to be a heap of stones for 70 years." 
Daniel9:2 In the first year that Darius was king, I, Daniel, was reading God's book. I read the message that the Lord had given to his prophet, Jeremiah. He told Jeremiah that Jerusalem would continue to be a heap of stones for 70 years." 
Daniel9:3 So I turned to my Lord God, to ask him for help. I prayed to him and I fasted. I wore clothes made of sackcloth. I put ashes on myself to show that I was upset." 
Daniel9:4 I prayed to the Lord my God. I agreed that we were guilty and I prayed this prayer: ‘Our Lord, you are a great God and we give you honour. In your covenant, you have promised to love your people. You continue to be faithful to those people who love you and obey your commands." 
Daniel9:5 We have done bad things that are wicked and evil. We have turned against you. We have not obeyed your laws and your teaching. 
Daniel9:6 We did not listen to your servants, the prophets. They spoke your message to our kings, to our rulers and to our ancestors. They spoke to all the people of our nation." 
Daniel9:7 Our Lord, you always do what is right. Today we are very ashamed. The people of Judah, Jerusalem and all Israel have not been faithful to you. You have sent our people away to many countries. Some are near and some are far away. We are all ashamed because we have turned away from you." 
Daniel9:8 Our kings, our leaders and our ancestors have turned away from you, Lord. So we are very ashamed." 
Daniel9:9 Our Lord God, we have turned against you. But you are kind and you forgive people." 
Daniel9:10 We have not obeyed the Lord our God. You sent your servants, the prophets, to give us your laws. But we have not lived in the way that your laws taught us." 
Daniel9:11 All the people of Israel have turned away from your laws. We have refused to obey you. Your servant Moses gave us your laws. He warned us about your punishments. Now you have punished us in the way that he said. We have turned away from you. 
Daniel9:12 So you have done what you promised to do to us and to our rulers. You have caused us to have terrible trouble. You have punished Jerusalem with more trouble than has ever happened to any other city. 
Daniel9:13 All this trouble has come to us in the way that Moses wrote in the book of your laws. But we have still not tried to please you, the Lord our God. We have not turned away from our sins. We have not learned your true teaching." 
Daniel9:14 So you were ready to punish us with this trouble. You are always right in everything that you do. You are right to punish us because we have not obeyed you. 
Daniel9:15 Our Lord God, you used your great power to bring your people safely out of Egypt. You are still famous today because of what you did then. We know that we have done things that are wrong and wicked." 
Daniel9:16 Our Lord, please stop being angry with us. Stop punishing your own city, Jerusalem, your holy mountain. Because of our sins and the evil things that our ancestors did, other people insult us. All the people who live near us laugh at Jerusalem and your people. So please do what is right, as you always do." 
Daniel9:17 Our God, please accept my prayer. Please do what I have asked for. Your temple is now a heap of stones. Please bless it again, so that people will know that you are great." 
Daniel9:18 Listen to us, my God. Our towns have become heaps of stones. See what has happened to the city that belongs to you. We do not ask you to do this because we are righteous people. We ask you because you are very kind." 
Daniel9:19 Lord, please listen! Lord, please forgive us. Lord, please do what we have asked you to do. My God, please do it quickly, so that people give you honour. Help your city and your people who belong to you.’" 
Daniel9:20 I continued to pray and tell God about our sins. I agreed that I had done wrong things, and that my people, the Israelites, had also done wrong things. I asked the Lord my God to help Jerusalem, his holy mountain." 
Daniel9:21 While I was praying, Gabriel came towards me. He was the same man that I had seen in the first vision. He flew quickly to me at the time of the evening sacrifice." 
Daniel9:22 He said to me, ‘Daniel, I have come to teach you, so that you can understand these things." 
Daniel9:23 As soon as you started to pray, God sent his message. I have come to tell you the message, because you are very important to God. Listen carefully, so that you understand the meaning of your vision." 
Daniel9:24 God has decided the time of punishment for your people and your holy city. It will continue for 70 weeks. That will finish the punishment for their sins. The people will no longer turn against God. They will have paid the price for their sins. God will cause them to live for ever in a way that is right. God will show that the visions and messages of the prophets are true. The Most Holy Place will belong to God again. 
Daniel9:25 I want you, Daniel, to understand this properly. There will be a command to build Jerusalem again. Then 7 weeks will pass, and 62 weeks will also pass. After that, a ruler that God has chosen will arrive. People will build the city of Jerusalem again. It will have streets and a strong wall around it. But there will be a lot of trouble at that time." 
Daniel9:26 After the 62 weeks, people will kill the ruler that God had chosen. He will have nothing. Then a foreign ruler and his army will attack the city and the temple. He will destroy them quickly, like a flood of water. War and terrible trouble will continue until the end that God has decided." 
Daniel9:27 The foreign ruler will make an agreement with many people. That agreement will continue for one week. In the middle of that week, he will stop the sacrifices and offerings in the temple. Instead, he will put a disgusting thing there that causes trouble. It will remain there until God finally destroys the ruler who destroys. His end will happen at the time that God has decided.’" 
Daniel10:1 In the third year that King Cyrus ruled Persia, God gave a message to Daniel. (Daniel's other name was Belteshazzar.) The message was true. It was about a great war. Daniel had a vision which helped him to understand the message." 
Daniel10:2 At that time I, Daniel, was very sad for three weeks." 
Daniel10:3 I did not eat any special food. I ate no meat and I drank no wine. I did not put any sweet oil on my skin or my hair until the three weeks had finished. 
Daniel10:4 On the 24th day of the first month, I was standing beside the great Tigris River." 
Daniel10:5 I looked up. I saw a man who was wearing good linen clothes. He also wore a belt made of pure gold. 
Daniel10:6 His body was bright like a jewel. His face shone like lightning. His eyes were like flames of fire. His arms and his feet shone like bright bronze. When he spoke, his voice was very loud, like the sound of many people's voices." 
Daniel10:7 Only I, Daniel, saw this vision. The people who were with me did not see anything. But they became very afraid. They ran away to hide themselves." 
Daniel10:8 So I was there alone to see this great vision. All my strength disappeared. My face became very white. I was very weak. 
Daniel10:9 I listened to the man's voice. When I heard him, I fell down, with my face on the ground. I was completely asleep." 
Daniel10:10 Then a hand touched me. It helped me to get up on my hands and knees. 
Daniel10:11 The man said, ‘Daniel, God loves you very much. Listen carefully to what I say to you. Stand up now, because God has sent me to you.’ When he said this, I stood up. But my body was still shaking." 
Daniel10:12 Then he said to me, ‘Daniel, do not be afraid. God has listened to your prayers since the time that you first turned to him. You wanted to understand about God. You put yourself under his authority. So I have come to bring the answer to your prayers." 
Daniel10:13 But the ruler of the kingdom of Persia stood against me for 21 days. Then Michael came to help me. He is one of God's most important angels. He helped me because the ruler of Persia was keeping me there. 
Daniel10:14 Now I have come to explain what will happen to your people in the future. The vision is about a future time.’ 
Daniel10:15 While he was saying this to me, I was looking down at the ground. I could not speak." 
Daniel10:16 Then someone who looked like a man touched my lips. I opened my mouth and I was able to speak again. So I said to the person who stood in front of me, ‘Sir, the vision makes me very afraid. My strength has disappeared." 
Daniel10:17 I am your servant, sir. I am too weak to speak with you. It is difficult for me to breathe.’" 
Daniel10:18 The angel who looked like a man touched me again. That made me stronger. 
Daniel10:19 He said to me, ‘Do not be afraid. God loves you very much. Have peace in your mind. Now be strong and brave!’ When he said this, I felt stronger. I said, ‘Sir, please speak to me now. You have made me strong again.’" 
Daniel10:20 Then the angel said to me, ‘I will tell you why I have come to you. I will explain to you what the words in the book of God's truth mean. But now I must return to fight a battle against the ruler of Persia. After I have won that battle, the ruler of Greece will appear. Only Michael will help me. He is the angel who keeps your own people safe. Nobody else will be there to help me fight against God's enemies." 
Daniel10:21  
Daniel11:1 I myself helped Michael in the first year that Darius ruled as king. I fought with Michael against his enemies.’ 
Daniel11:2 Then the angel said to Daniel, ‘Now I will tell you the truth about what will happen. There will be three more kings who rule Persia. After them, there will be a fourth king. He will be richer than all the other kings who ruled before him. He will become very powerful because of his riches. Then he will tell other nations that they must attack the kingdom of Greece." 
Daniel11:3 Then a great king will appear. He will rule with great power. He will do whatever he wants to do. 
Daniel11:4 While he rules powerfully like that, his kingdom will quickly break into four parts. Those parts will be in all directions. His descendants will not rule his kingdom. Instead, other people will rule as kings, but their kingdoms will not be as powerful." 
Daniel11:5 Then the king who rules in the south will become strong. But one of his own army officers will become even stronger. That officer will rule a greater kingdom than the king of the south. 
Daniel11:6 After some years, the king of the south and the king of the north will agree to be friends. The king of the south's daughter will go to marry the king of the north. That would make their agreement strong. But the plan will fail. She will lose her authority. Her husband will no longer rule as king. Someone will kill her, her husband, her child and the servants who helped her." 
Daniel11:7 Later, someone from her family will become king of the south. He will attack the army of the king of the north. He will go into that king's strong city. He will win the battle against the king of the north." 
Daniel11:8 He will take the images of their gods back to Egypt with him. He will also take away valuable things that they had made from gold and silver. Then for several years, he will not attack the king of the north again." 
Daniel11:9 After that, the king of the north will take his army into the land that the king of the south rules. But they will cause him to return to his own country." 
Daniel11:10 Then his sons will prepare to fight a war. They will bring together a large army. Their soldiers will march forward like a powerful river. They will fight a battle all the way into the strong place of their enemy. 
Daniel11:11 Then the king of the south will be very angry. He will march with his army to fight against the king of the north. The king from the north will also have a large army, but the king of the south will win the battle." 
Daniel11:12 The king of the south will boast that he has destroyed this large army. He will be proud that he has killed thousands of people. But he will not continue to win battles. 
Daniel11:13 The king of the north will again bring together a large army. It will be even bigger than the army that he had before. After a few years, he will march forward with his great army and all their many weapons." 
Daniel11:14 At that time, many people will turn against the king of the south. Violent men from your own people in Israel will also be ready to attack him. This would make the vision become true. They will fight against him, but they will fail." 
Daniel11:15 Then the king from the north will march south with his army. He will build up heaps of earth around the walls of a strong city. He will take the city for himself. The soldiers of the kingdom in the south will not be able to stop him. Even their best soldiers will not be strong enough to win the fight. 
Daniel11:16 The king who attacked from the north will do whatever he wants to do. Nobody will be able to stop him. He will march into the Beautiful Land. He will have the power to destroy it. 
Daniel11:17 The king from the north will decide to march south with all his kingdom's strong army. He will make an agreement with the king of the south. He will give one of his daughters to marry the king of the south. He will try to destroy that kingdom, but his plan will fail. His daughter will not be able to do anything to help him." 
Daniel11:18 After this, he will decide to attack the countries near the sea. He will take many of their cities for himself. But an officer of a foreign army will stop him. He will cause the king of the north to stop boasting. He will no longer be proud but he will be ashamed." 
Daniel11:19 So the king of the north will return to the strong cities in his own country. But he will lose his power and he will fall. Nobody will ever see him again. 
Daniel11:20 Then another king will rule in the north. He will try to make his kingdom even greater. He will send out a cruel man to take taxes from people. But that king will soon die. This will not happen in a battle or because people are angry with him. 
Daniel11:21 The king who rules after him will be an evil man. He will not belong to the royal family, so he should not be the king. He will deceive people to make himself the king. It will happen at a time when people think that they are safe." 
Daniel11:22 He will quickly destroy any army that tries to attack him. He will even kill the leader of God's covenant. 
Daniel11:23 He will agree to be friends with other leaders. But then he will deceive them. He will become more and more powerful, but he will rule only a few people." 
Daniel11:24 His army will suddenly attack a region that is very rich. The king will do things that none of his ancestors did. He will take valuable things from his enemies when he fights against them. He will share those things with the men who help him. He will make plans to attack strong cities. But he will only be able to do this for a short time. 
Daniel11:25 The evil king of the north will bring together a large, strong army. He will feel brave enough to attack the king of the south. The king of the south will fight against him with an even larger and more powerful army. But the king of the south will not be able to win the battle. His own men will turn against him." 
Daniel11:26 Even those who eat the king's food will try to kill him. Many of his soldiers will die in the battle. His army will run away. 
Daniel11:27 These two kings will sit at the same table to make plans. But they will deceive each other with evil lies. Their plans will be useless. God has already decided when their time as kings will finish. 
Daniel11:28 Then the king of the north will return to his own country. He will take many valuable things with him. As he returns, he will cause trouble for the people who obey God's covenant. He will do whatever he wants to do against them. Then he will continue his journey back to his own country." 
Daniel11:29 At the time that God chooses, the king will attack the south again. This time the result will be different from the first time." 
Daniel11:30 People will come in ships from the west to attack him. He will be afraid and he will turn back. He will be angry as he travels home. So he will cause more trouble for the people who obey God's covenant. He will give honour to those people who turn away from the holy covenant. 
Daniel11:31 He will send his soldiers to attack Jerusalem's strong place. They will go into the holy place of the temple and they will make it unclean. They will stop people from offering the sacrifices each day. They will put a disgusting thing that causes trouble in the holy place. 
Daniel11:32 The king will deceive the people who are no longer faithful to God. He will make them help him. But the people who are still faithful to God will work hard to stop him. 
Daniel11:33 Wise Israelite leaders will teach many other people. But these teachers will suffer for some time. People will kill them in battle, or with fire. People will rob them. People will put some of them in prison." 
Daniel11:34 When God's people are in a time of trouble, they will receive a little help. Many people will join them who are not their true friends." 
Daniel11:35 Some of the wise leaders will suffer. As a result, God will make them clean and pure. This will continue until the time for the end. God has decided when that time will come." 
Daniel11:36 The king will do whatever he wants to do. He will say that he is greater than any god. He will even say proud things to insult the God who rules all other gods. He will be successful until the time when God's anger finishes. God will finish doing what he has decided to do. 
Daniel11:37 This king will not respect the gods that his ancestors worshipped. He will not even respect the god that women love. He will not respect any god. He will think that he is greater than all the gods. 
Daniel11:38 Instead, he will give honour to the god that makes cities strong and safe. His ancestors did not know that god. But he will give gold, silver, jewels and other valuable gifts as offerings to that god." 
Daniel11:39 He will ask a foreign god to help him as he attacks the strongest cities of his enemies. He will give great honour to those people who accept him as their leader. He will give them authority to rule many people. He will give them land because they have helped him. 
Daniel11:40 At the time of the end, the king of the south will attack him. The king of the north will fight against him very strongly. He will march out quickly with chariots and soldiers who ride on horses. He will also have many ships. His army will attack many countries. He will go through those countries like a strong flood of water." 
Daniel11:41 He will march into the Beautiful Land. He will kill many thousands of the people there. But these people will escape from his power: the people of Edom and Moab, and the leaders of Ammon." 
Daniel11:42 He will have power over many countries. The country of Egypt will not escape. 
Daniel11:43 He will take away from Egypt the gold, silver and other valuable things. The people of Libya and Ethiopia will be under his power." 
Daniel11:44 But he will become afraid when he hears news from the east and the north. It will cause him to be very angry. He will go with his army to destroy many people. 
Daniel11:45 He will put up his royal tents between the seas, at the holy mountain. But he will die there and nobody will help him.’" 
Daniel12:1 Then the angel said to me, ‘At that time God's great angel Michael will come. He is the leader who takes care of your people. There will be a time of great trouble. It will be worse than any trouble that has happened since God first made your nation. But many of your own people will escape from that trouble. Those are all the people whose names are written in the book." 
Daniel12:2 Many dead people who lie under the ground will become alive again. Some of them will receive life that continues for ever with God. But other people will receive shame that continues for ever. 
Daniel12:3 People who are wise will shine like the bright sky. Those who help many people to do what is right will also shine brightly for ever. They will shine like the stars in the sky at night. 
Daniel12:4 Daniel, you must now close this message. Put seals on the book so that nobody can open it until it is time for the end of this world. Many people will try to understand about these things. They will travel everywhere to get more knowledge.’" 
Daniel12:5 After the angel said this, I, Daniel, looked up. I saw two other people. One of them stood on the same side of the river as me. The other one stood on the other side of the river." 
Daniel12:6 One of them spoke to the man who wore linen clothes and who now stood above the river. He asked that man, ‘How long will it be until these wonderful things finish?’" 
Daniel12:7 The man who wore linen clothes lifted up both his hands towards the sky. I heard him make a strong promise with the authority of God, who lives for ever. He said, ‘It will continue for three and a half times. Then the enemies of God's holy people will finally lose their power. That will be the end of all these events.’" 
Daniel12:8 I heard the man's words, but I did not understand. So I said, ‘Sir, how will all these things finally finish?’" 
Daniel12:9 He said to me, ‘You must go now, Daniel. This message will remain secret until it is time for the end of this world. The seals will keep the book closed." 
Daniel12:10 The time of trouble will cause many people to become clean and pure. But wicked people will continue to do evil things. No wicked people will understand what God is doing. But wise people will understand. 
Daniel12:11 People will suffer for 1,290 days during that time of trouble. It will start from the time when people can no longer offer their sacrifices each day in the temple. That is when the enemy will put a disgusting thing that causes trouble in the holy place." 
Daniel12:12 But God will bless all those people who remain faithful until the 1,335 days come to an end." 
Daniel12:13 You yourself must serve God faithfully until the end of your life. You will die. But at the end of time you will rise to live again. Then you will receive the good things that God has prepared for you.’ 
Hosea1:1 This is the message that the Lord gave to Hosea, the son of Beeri. He gave this message during the time when Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah were kings of Judah. It was during the time when Joash's son Jeroboam was the king of Israel." 
Hosea1:2 The Lord began to speak to Hosea with a message for his people. The Lord said to Hosea, ‘Go and marry a prostitute. She will give birth to children, as a prostitute. That will show how my people have not been faithful to me. They have turned away from me, the Lord, and they have served other gods.’" 
Hosea1:3 So Hosea married a woman called Gomer, the daughter of Diblaim. Then Gomer became pregnant. She gave birth to a son for Hosea." 
Hosea1:4 The Lord said to Hosea, ‘Call him Jezreel. This is because I will soon punish the family of Jehu. I will punish them because Jehu murdered people at Jezreel. I will cause the kingdom of Israel to come to an end." 
Hosea1:5 At that time, I will completely destroy the power of Israel's army in Jezreel Valley.’" 
Hosea1:6 Gomer became pregnant again. She gave birth to a daughter. The Lord said to Hosea, ‘Call her Lo-Ruhamah. This is because I will not continue to show love to Israel's people. I will not forgive their sins any more." 
Hosea1:7 But I will continue to love the people of Judah. I will save them from the power of their enemies. I will not use weapons to do this in a battle. I will not use an army, or horses, or chariots. Instead, it will be the power of the Lord their God that saves them.’" 
Hosea1:8 After Lo-Ruhamah stopped drinking Gomer's milk, Gomer became pregnant again. She gave birth to another son." 
Hosea1:9 Then the Lord said, ‘Call him Lo-Ammi. This is because you Israelites are not my people. I am not your God.’" 
Hosea1:10 In the future, nobody will be able to count the number of Israel's people. They will be as much as the sand on the shore of the sea. God has said to them, ‘You are not my people.’ But at that time, he will say to them, ‘You are children of the God who lives!’" 
Hosea1:11 Then the people of Judah and the people of Israel will come together again. They will choose a single leader to rule them. They will return to live in their own land. They will know that the day of Jezreel is a great day. 
Hosea2:1 Then you will tell your brothers, ‘Ammi: you are my people.’ You will tell your sisters, ‘Ruhamah: he loves you.’" 
Hosea2:2 My children, warn your mother! She is no longer my wife. I am not her husband. Tell her that she must stop living like a prostitute. She must stop having sex with other men instead of me." 
Hosea2:3 If she does not return to me, I will remove all her clothes. She will have nothing to wear, like the day when she was born. She will be ashamed. Her life will be useless and empty, like a dry land that has no water. Then I will leave her to die because she has no water to drink." 
Hosea2:4 I will not show love to her children, because she became pregnant with them as a prostitute." 
Hosea2:5 Yes, their mother has lived as a prostitute. She became pregnant because she had sex with other men instead of with her husband. She should be ashamed. She herself said, ‘I will go and sleep with my lovers. They give me food and water. They give me wool, linen, olive oil and wine.’" 
Hosea2:6 So I will stop her living like that. I will put thorn bushes around her, like a wall. Then she will not be able to go anywhere that she likes." 
Hosea2:7 She will run after her lovers, but she will not catch them. She will look for them, but she will not find them. Then she will say, ‘Now I will return to my husband, as before. Life was better for me then than it is now.’" 
Hosea2:8 She did not realize that I was the one who gave her everything that she needed. I gave her grain, wine and olive oil. I even gave her lots of silver and gold. But she used my gifts to worship Baal instead of me." 
Hosea2:9 So now I will take back the grain and the new wine that I gave her at harvest time. I will take away the wool and the linen. She will have no clothes to cover her bare body. 
Hosea2:10 I will remove her clothes for all her lovers to see her as she really is. Nobody will be able to rescue her from my power. 
Hosea2:11 I will stop the feasts that she enjoys each year. I will stop her festival days at the times of a new moon and on Sabbath days. I will stop all her parties. 
Hosea2:12 I will destroy her vines and her fig trees. She said that those were the things that her lovers paid to her. But I will make her gardens become like a forest. Only wild animals will eat the fruit from those trees. 
Hosea2:13 I will punish her because she burned incense to the idols of Baal. I will punish her because she made herself beautiful with jewels when she went to sleep with her lovers. I will punish her because she did those things but she forgot about me. That is what the Lord says. 
Hosea2:14 But listen! One day, I will speak kind words to her. I will lead her into the wilderness. I will tell her that I love her." 
Hosea2:15 There, I will give her the vineyards that she had before. I will change Trouble Valley into a place where there is hope. She will be happy with me there, as she was when she was young. That was the time when she came out of Egypt." 
Hosea2:16 The Lord says this: When that happens, you will call me ‘My husband’. You will never again call me ‘ Baal, my master’." 
Hosea2:17 I will never again let you speak the names of the idols of Baal. 
Hosea2:18 At that time, I will make a promise that nothing will hurt my people. I will make an agreement with the wild animals, with the birds in the fields and with the animals that move along the ground. I will remove from their land all the weapons that soldiers use to fight wars. I will destroy their swords and their bows and arrows. I will allow my people to live safely in peace." 
Hosea2:19 Israel, I will make you my wife for ever. I will promise to help you in a way that is right and fair. I will be kind to you with a faithful love." 
Hosea2:20 I will promise to be a faithful husband for you. Then you will know me as the Lord. 
Hosea2:21 The Lord says this: At that time, I will answer your prayers. I will put clouds in the sky, and the clouds will send rain to the earth." 
Hosea2:22 The earth will feed the grain, the wine and the olive oil. My people will be happy to say, ‘God plants’ (Jezreel)." 
Hosea2:23 I will plant them safely in the land. I will show love to ‘No love’ (Lo-Ruhamah). I will say to ‘Not my people’ (Lo-Ammi), ‘You are my people.’ And they will say to me, ‘You are my God.’" 
Hosea3:1 Then the Lord said to me, ‘Go back to your wife and show that you love her. Do that, even though she loves another man and is not faithful to you. The Lord loves the Israelites in the same way. They turn away from him to worship other gods. They love to offer gifts of raisins to idols. But the Lord still loves them.’" 
Hosea3:2 So I paid 15 pieces of silver and 50 kilograms of grain to get my wife back. 
Hosea3:3 Then I told her, ‘You must stay at home with me for many days. You must not live as a prostitute. You must not have sex with any other man. I will also be faithful to you.’" 
Hosea3:4 In the same way, the Israelites will have to live for many days without a king or any other leader. They will not be able to make sacrifices. They will not have their pillars, their ephods or their idols to help them." 
Hosea3:5 After that time, the Israelites will turn back to the Lord their God. They will serve their king, a descendant of King David. In the future, they will obey the Lord with fear, and they will receive his good gifts." 
Hosea4:1 Israelites, listen to the Lord 's message! The Lord accuses the people who live in Israel of these bad things: ‘Nobody in the land of Israel is faithful. They have no true love. They do not want to know God." 
Hosea4:2 They curse people, they tell lies, they murder people, they rob people. They are guilty of adultery. They continue to kill more and more people." 
Hosea4:3 Because of this, the land will become like a desert. Everyone who lives there will become weak. Everything will die: the wild animals, the birds, and even the fish in the sea." 
Hosea4:4 Do not argue among yourselves or accuse one another. It is you priests who are guilty. 
Hosea4:5 You are always falling over. In the day and in the night, you trip and you fall. The false prophets are the same as you. So I will destroy Israel, your mother." 
Hosea4:6 The people do not know me. Because of that, they will come to an end. You refuse to respect my authority, so I will remove you as my priests. You refuse to obey the Law of your God, so I will refuse to accept your children as my priests." 
Hosea4:7 The more priests that there are among you, the more sins they do against me. They should have received honour as priests, but I will make them ashamed." 
Hosea4:8 They get food to eat when the people bring their sin offerings to them. So the priests are happy when the people do bad things, because they get more food to eat." 
Hosea4:9 The people do whatever the priests do. I will punish them all for the bad things that they do. I will give them what their sins deserve. 
Hosea4:10 They will eat, but they will still be hungry. They will have sex with prostitutes, but they will still have no children. This will happen because they have turned away from the Lord." 
Hosea4:11 Instead, they worship other gods. My people cannot think properly because they drink too much old wine and new wine." 
Hosea4:12 They ask wooden idols to tell them what to do! A stick tells them what will happen in the future! They have turned away from me and they have lost their way. They have not been faithful to me, their God, as a prostitute is not faithful to her husband." 
Hosea4:13 They offer sacrifices on the tops of the mountains. They burn offerings on the hills. They do this under the oak trees, the poplar trees and the other big trees. They enjoy the shade under those trees. As a result, your daughters serve the false gods as prostitutes. Your sons' wives are also guilty of adultery." 
Hosea4:14 But I will not punish them for those sins, because the men are just as guilty! They sleep with prostitutes. They join with prostitutes to offer sacrifices to the false gods. All of this shows that people who cannot think properly destroy themselves.’" 
Hosea4:15 You people of Israel are not faithful to the Lord. But do not let the people of Judah become guilty of the same sins. Do not travel to Gilgal to worship! Do not go to Beth Aven! Do not say, ‘I promise this is true, as surely as the Lord lives.’" 
Hosea4:16 Israel's people have turned against the Lord. They are like a young cow that refuses to obey its owner. So how can the Lord take care of them? Will he put them in a big field to eat the grass like lambs? 
Hosea4:17 The people of Israel enjoy their idols. Do not go near them! 
Hosea4:18 After they have drunk enough wine, they are happy to sleep with prostitutes. They enjoy doing things that should make them ashamed." 
Hosea4:19 Now a strong wind will pick them up and take them away. They will become ashamed because of their sacrifices to false gods. 
Hosea5:1 ‘Listen to this, you priests! Listen carefully, you Israelites! Listen, you people of the royal family! You are guilty and you deserve punishment. You have caused trouble for people with your trap at Mizpah. You have caught people in your net at Tabor." 
Hosea5:2 People have turned against me and they have murdered many people. So I will warn them all and I will punish them. 
Hosea5:3 I know what the people of Ephraim are like. The Israelites cannot hide their sins from me. You are no better than prostitutes! You can no longer serve me as my people. 
Hosea5:4 Yes, the sins of the Israelites do not allow them to return to me, the Lord their God. They are not faithful to me and they love to worship idols. They do not want to know me." 
Hosea5:5 The Israelites are proud of what they do, and that shows that they are guilty. Their sins cause them to fall into great trouble. That will happen to the people of Israel and Ephraim. And the people of Judah will fall with them." 
Hosea5:6 They take their sheep and cows to offer as sacrifices to the Lord. They want the Lord to help them, but he does not answer them. They cannot find him because he has gone away from them." 
Hosea5:7 They have turned against the Lord. Their children do not belong to him. They enjoy the new moon feast. But that will soon destroy them and the crops in their fields.’ 
Hosea5:8 ‘Make a noise with your horns in Gibeah! Make a noise with your trumpets in Ramah! Warn the people in Beth Aven of danger! Men of Benjamin's tribe, prepare to fight!" 
Hosea5:9 The day for Ephraim's punishment will soon come. That will be the end of them! I make this promise to all the tribes of Israel. It will certainly happen! 
Hosea5:10 The leaders of Judah are not honest. They are like people who move stones which show the border of their land. So I will punish them with my great anger. 
Hosea5:11 Terrible trouble will come to Ephraim's people. They will receive great punishment. They deserve that because they chose to worship idols. 
Hosea5:12 I will destroy the people of Ephraim, as a moth eats cloth. I will also destroy the people of Judah, as ants destroy wood." 
Hosea5:13 Ephraim's people knew that they were ill. Judah's people knew that they had wounds. Ephraim's leaders expected Assyria to help them. They asked Assyria's great king for help. But he is not able to make you well. He cannot make your wounds better. 
Hosea5:14 I will attack Ephraim's people like a lion. I will also attack Judah's people like a young lion. I myself will tear them into pieces. I will carry them away. Nobody will be able to rescue them. 
Hosea5:15 Then I will return to my place. I will leave them to receive their full punishment. When they have suffered enough, they will turn back to me. They will want to serve me again.’" 
Hosea6:1 ‘Listen! We should return to serve the Lord. He has torn us to pieces, but now he will make us well again. He has hurt us, but now he will make our wounds better." 
Hosea6:2 He will soon make us strong again. After three days, we will have new lives. Then we can live together with him." 
Hosea6:3 We should respect the Lord 's authority. We must try to know him better. Then he will certainly come to rescue us. He will come to us as surely as the sun appears each morning. He will help us as surely as the rain comes in spring and it makes the ground wet for plants to grow.’ 
Hosea6:4 ‘People of Ephraim and Judah, can I forgive you so easily? Your love for me soon disappears. It goes away as quickly as mist or dew in the morning." 
Hosea6:5 I sent my prophets to warn you. They gave you my messages that I would punish you. Now that punishment will certainly happen to you! I will suddenly come to judge you, like the sun that rises at dawn." 
Hosea6:6 It is faithful love that makes me happy. That would be better than your sacrifices to me. You should know me as your God. That would be better than your burnt offerings. 
Hosea6:7 Like Adam, my people did not obey the covenant that I had made with them. They did not serve me faithfully." 
Hosea6:8 All the people of Gilead do evil things. The blood from their murders lies on the streets. 
Hosea6:9 The priests join together like robbers. They hide themselves and they are ready to attack. They wait on the road to Shechem, ready to murder people who pass that way. They have done wicked things." 
Hosea6:10 I have seen people do disgusting things in Israel. Like a prostitute, Ephraim's people serve false gods. Yes, the Israelites have made themselves unclean." 
Hosea6:11 People of Judah, I will also punish you when the right time comes. But I do want to bring my people back.’" 
Hosea7:1 ‘Yes, I want to make the people of Israel healthy again, but I see how great their sins are. Samaria's people do many evil things. They deceive one another, they take things from other people's homes, and they attack people in the streets to rob them." 
Hosea7:2 They do not understand that I remember all their sins. The wicked things that they do are everywhere. Wherever they go, I see their sins very clearly." 
Hosea7:3 The king is happy to see the evil things that his people do. The leaders are also happy when the people cheat and tell lies. 
Hosea7:4 None of them serves me faithfully. They are always ready to do bad things, like an oven that has a hot fire inside it. When the baker is ready to bake his bread, he makes the fire even hotter." 
Hosea7:5 On a day when the king has a feast, the leaders drink too much wine. The king and the leaders join with other people to do foolish things." 
Hosea7:6 But the leaders are planning to murder the king. Their anger is like the fire of an oven. It burns slowly inside them all through the night. But in the morning the fire is too strong to stop. 
Hosea7:7 The leaders are so angry that they kill their rulers. Now all their kings are dead. None of them calls out to me for help.’ 
Hosea7:8 ‘Ephraim's people have mixed themselves with people of other nations. So they have become useless, like bread that is not properly cooked." 
Hosea7:9 Foreign people have taken away Israel's strength. But the Israelites do not realize what is happening! They have become like an old man with grey hair. But they do not realize how weak they are. 
Hosea7:10 Israel's people are too proud to change. This shows that they are guilty. They still refuse to turn back to me, the Lord their God. In all their troubles, they do not look for my help." 
Hosea7:11 Ephraim has become like a silly dove. He cannot decide where to go. The Israelites ask Egypt to help them. Then they decide to ask Assyria instead. 
Hosea7:12 When they fly around like that, I will throw my net over them. I will catch them like birds that fly in the sky. I will punish them as they join together to do evil things." 
Hosea7:13 Terrible trouble will happen to them, because they have gone away from me. They have turned against me, so they will die. I wanted to rescue them, but they have told lies about me." 
Hosea7:14 They do not pray and trust me to help them. Instead, they lie down on their beds and they weep loudly. They cut their bodies to get grain and wine. They turn away from me." 
Hosea7:15 I taught them what was right. I made them strong. But now they have decided to do evil things against me. 
Hosea7:16 They do not look up to me for help. They are as useless as a bow that cannot shoot an arrow properly. Their leaders are proud of their own strength, but they will die in battle. Then the people of Egypt will laugh at them.’" 
Hosea8:1 The Lord says, ‘ Warn the people of danger! My people have not obeyed the covenant that I made with them. They have refused to obey my laws. So an enemy army will come to attack their land, like an eagle that is ready to fly down and catch them." 
Hosea8:2 Israel's people call out to me for help. They say, “We know you as our God.”" 
Hosea8:3 But they have refused to do what is good and right. So their enemies will chase after them. 
Hosea8:4 My people chose kings to rule them, but they did not ask me about it. They chose people to lead them, but I did not agree. They used their silver and their gold to make idols for themselves. But that will destroy them in the end." 
Hosea8:5 People of Samaria, you have made an image of a calf as your idol. But I hate that idol! I am very angry with the Israelites. How much longer will it be before I have to punish them?" 
Hosea8:6 That idol is not a true god! An Israelite worker with special skills made it. Samaria's idol of a calf will break into pieces! 
Hosea8:7 Like a farmer, Israel's people have planted the wind. So their harvest will be a strong storm! The crops that grow in their fields will not have any grain. So they will not be able to make flour for bread. Even if the crops do make some grain, foreign people will take it for themselves." 
Hosea8:8 Israel will become lost among the other nations. It will be like a useless pot that nobody needs. 
Hosea8:9 Israel's rulers have gone to Assyria for help. They are like a wild donkey that goes here and there. Ephraim's people have paid money to get help from other nations. as if they are paying for lovers. 
Hosea8:10 Yes, they have paid money to get friends who will help them. But I will soon bring them together to punish them. A great king will be cruel to them and they will suffer very much." 
Hosea8:11 Ephraim's people have built many altars to make sin offerings. But the altars have become places where the people do even more sins! 
Hosea8:12 I carefully explained my laws to my people. But they do not accept my laws as their own. 
Hosea8:13 Israel's people offer sacrifices to me, and they eat the meat from those sacrifices. But their sacrifices do not please me. I know that they are guilty of wicked things. Soon I will punish them for their sins. They will have to return to Egypt." 
Hosea8:14 Israel's people have built beautiful palaces. But they have forgotten me, who made them into a nation! Judah's people have built many strong cities. But I will send fire to destroy their cities and their strong buildings.’" 
Hosea9:1 People of Israel, do not shout with joy, as the people of other nations do at their festivals. You have not been faithful to me, your God. Like a prostitute, you sell yourselves to foreign gods that you worship on the threshing floors." 
Hosea9:2 But the threshing floors will not provide enough grain to feed the people. The winepresses will not give them enough new wine. 
Hosea9:3 The Israelites will not remain in the Lord 's land. They will have to return to Egypt. In Assyria, they will have to eat food that is unclean." 
Hosea9:4 They will not pour out wine as an offering to the Lord. Their sacrifices will not please him. Instead, their offerings will be like food that people eat at a funeral. Anyone who eats it will become unclean. They may eat the food to feed themselves, but they cannot offer it to the Lord in his temple." 
Hosea9:5 So what will you do on your festival days? You will no longer be able to worship the Lord properly. 
Hosea9:6 Listen! Perhaps some Israelites will escape when Assyria's army attacks. But then Egypt's army will take hold of them. They will die in Memphis and people will bury them there. Weeds will grow all over their valuable silver things. Thorn bushes will grow in their homes. 
Hosea9:7 The time for Israel's punishment has arrived! The Lord must now pay them back for their sins. The Israelites will soon know about it! You do many sins and you hate the Lord. Because of that, you say that his prophets are fools. You think that his messengers are crazy." 
Hosea9:8 God has sent his prophet to warn the people of Ephraim. But wherever he goes, people try to stop him. They speak angry words against him, even in the temple of his God." 
Hosea9:9 The Israelites do very wicked things, like the terrible sins that they did at Gibeah. God will not forget the wicked things that they have done. He will surely punish them for their sins." 
Hosea9:10 The Lord says, ‘When I first found Israel, they gave me pleasure. It was as if I had found grapes in the wilderness. Your ancestors made me happy, like the first fruit on a young fig tree. But then they came to the god, Baal-Peor. They began to worship that disgusting idol. They became as disgusting as the idol that they loved so much." 
Hosea9:11 The great things that Israel enjoys will soon disappear. They will be like birds that fly away! The women of Israel will no longer give birth to children. They will not even become pregnant. 
Hosea9:12 But even if they do have children, I will cause them all to die so that none are still alive. It will be a terrible time for the Israelites, because I will turn away from them." 
Hosea9:13 At one time, I saw that Ephraim's land was a beautiful place, like Tyre. But now Ephraim's people must bring out their children for an enemy to kill them.’" 
Hosea9:14 Lord, what should I ask you to give these people? Make it impossible for their women to give birth! Stop the milk from their breasts to feed their babies!" 
Hosea9:15 The Lord says, ‘They started to do evil things at Gilgal. It was there that I began to hate them. Because they do evil things, I will chase them out of my land. I will not love them any more. Their leaders have all turned against me." 
Hosea9:16 Ephraim's people are very sick. They are like a plant that has dry roots and it gives no fruit. Even if they give birth to children that they love very much, I will kill those children.’" 
Hosea9:17 My God will not accept them as his people, because they have not obeyed him. They will have no home of their own. They will have to live among different nations." 
Hosea10:1 Israel was like a healthy vine that had lots of grapes. But as the Israelites became more and more rich, they built more and more altars. As their land gave more crops, they made the pillars that they worshipped more beautiful." 
Hosea10:2 They do not truly trust God. They are guilty and they must receive their punishment. The Lord will break their altars. He will destroy their special pillars. 
Hosea10:3 Soon these people will say, ‘We did not respect the Lord 's authority. Because of that we have no king. But even if we had a king now, he could not do anything to help us.’" 
Hosea10:4 They promise to do many things, but they never do what they promise. They make useless agreements. So people accuse each other in the courts. They are like weeds that grow in a farmer's field." 
Hosea10:5 The people who live in Samaria will be afraid. They will worry about their image of a calf at Beth Aven. They will weep because it will go away from them. The priests who serve the idol will cry too. They know that an enemy will take away their great and beautiful idol. 
Hosea10:6 Assyria's army will carry the idol away. It will be a gift to give honour to Assyria's great king. Ephraim's people will feel ashamed. They will be sorry that they trusted in their wooden idol. 
Hosea10:7 The people of Samaria and their king will come to an end. They will be like a small stick that water carries away. 
Hosea10:8 The wicked altars on the hills will break into pieces. These are places where Israel's people have done bad things. Thorn bushes and weeds will grow all over their altars. Then the people will say to the mountains, ‘Hide us!’ They will say to the hills, ‘Fall on us!’" 
Hosea10:9 The Lord says, ‘People of Israel, you have continued to do bad things, since the time that you were at Gibeah. When the people did evil things at Gibeah, war destroyed them as a result." 
Hosea10:10 When I decide that the time is right, I will punish the Israelites. Because of their many sins, I will bring other nations to attack them. Their enemies will tie them up with chains." 
Hosea10:11 Ephraim was like a cow that I had taught to stamp on grain. She loved to work for me. But now I will make her do hard work! I will put a heavy yoke on her beautiful neck. Judah will also have to plough the ground. Jacob's descendants must work to dig up the hard ground. 
Hosea10:12 Be like a farmer who plants good seed. Plant things that are good and right. Then your harvest will be faithful love. Plough the hard ground and prepare it for the Lord to bless you. It is time for you to turn back to the Lord. Then he will bless you with good things, like rain that falls on the ground!" 
Hosea10:13 But instead, you have planted evil things. So your harvest is terrible trouble. The food that you eat comes from your lies. You trusted in your own strength to save you. You thought that your strong army would keep you safe." 
Hosea10:14 So you will soon hear the noise of war. Enemies will destroy all your strong buildings. It will be like the time that King Shalman's army destroyed Beth-Arbel. In that battle, cruel soldiers killed mothers together with their children." 
Hosea10:15 The same thing will happen to you, people of Bethel, because of the wicked things that you have done. When the day of your punishment arrives, the king of Israel will surely die.’" 
Hosea11:1 The Lord says, ‘When Israel was a child, I loved him as my son. I called my son to come out of Egypt." 
Hosea11:2 But the more I spoke to Israel's people, the more they turned away from me. They offered sacrifices to the images of Baal. They burned incense to give honour to their idols." 
Hosea11:3 I was the one who taught this child, Ephraim, to walk! I held their hand and I led them. I took care of them, but they did not understand this." 
Hosea11:4 I loved them and I was kind to them. I led them as their guide. I gave them rest from their hard work. I bent down to feed them. 
Hosea11:5 But they refuse to turn back to me. So they must return to Egypt. Assyria will rule over them. 
Hosea11:6 War will come to their cities. Enemies will break down the strong city gates. War will destroy my people and all their wicked ideas. 
Hosea11:7 My people have decided to turn away from me. That is all that they can think about. They call up to a God who rules above, but he will not help them." 
Hosea11:8 Israel, I cannot leave you alone. I cannot let you belong to someone else. I cannot destroy you, as I did to Admah and Zeboiim. I now realize that I love you too much. I could never destroy you completely." 
Hosea11:9 I am very angry with you, but I will not punish you so much. I will never destroy my people, Ephraim. This is because I am God. I am not a human. I am the Holy God who is with you. I will not come to destroy you in my anger." 
Hosea11:10 I will roar loudly like a lion, so that my children come to follow me. When I roar, my children will shake with fear, as they come from the west." 
Hosea11:11 They will return to me, like birds that fly from Egypt. They will come like doves that fly from Assyria. They will be afraid, as they return. I will bring them back to live in their homes again.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Hosea11:12 The Lord says, ‘Ephraim's people are always speaking lies to me. Yes, Israel's descendants try to deceive me. But Judah's people have stayed with God as their guide. They continue to be faithful to the Holy God.’" 
Hosea12:1 Ephraim's people chase after useless things all the time. They think that they can catch the wind that comes from the east! But the result is more violence and lies. They make an agreement with Assyria to get their help. They also send their olive oil to Egypt to ask for their help. 
Hosea12:2 The Lord is ready to accuse Judah's people in a court of law. He will punish Jacob's descendants for the bad way that they live. He will punish them as their sins deserve. 
Hosea12:3 Before Jacob was born, he cheated his brother. He did that when they were both inside their mother's body. When Jacob became a man, he fought against God." 
Hosea12:4 He fought against an angel and he won. He wept and he asked God to bless him. There at Bethel, Jacob met with God. God spoke to him there." 
Hosea12:5 This was the Lord God Almighty! We know him as the Lord, his special name." 
Hosea12:6 So now, you must return to your God. You must show faithful love for each other. You must judge people in a fair way. You must be patient. Trust God to come and help you." 
Hosea12:7 Your traders love to cheat people. They use false weights and measures. 
Hosea12:8 Ephraim's people proudly say, ‘We are rich! We have become very rich! In all the ways that we have found riches, nobody can accuse us. We have not really done anything that is a sin!’" 
Hosea12:9 God says, ‘Remember that I am the Lord your God! I brought you out of Egypt, where you were slaves. Now I will make you live in tents again, as you did before, in the wilderness." 
Hosea12:10 I gave my messages to the prophets. I showed them many visions. I used stories for the prophets to teach the people about me. 
Hosea12:11 The people in Gilead do wicked things. They will become as useless as their idols. At Gilgal, the people offer bulls as sacrifices on their altars. Those altars will be like heaps of stones in a farmer's field.’" 
Hosea12:12 Jacob ran away to the land of Aram. He worked there as a shepherd so that he could get a wife. 
Hosea12:13 The Lord used a prophet to bring the Israelites out of Egypt. He used a prophet to keep them safe in the wilderness. 
Hosea12:14 But Ephraim's people have made the Lord very angry. He will punish them with death for their terrible sins. Their Lord will pay them back as they deserve, because they have insulted him." 
Hosea13:1 In past times, when the leaders of Israel spoke, the people were afraid. The people respected their leaders. But the people became guilty when they worshipped Baal. Because of that, they died." 
Hosea13:2 Now the Israelites continue to do more and more sins. They use metal to make idols for themselves. They use clever skills to make idols from silver. All their idols are only things that people have made themselves. People offer sacrifices to the image of a calf. They say, ‘Kiss the calf!’" 
Hosea13:3 So those people will soon disappear! They will quickly disappear like mist or dew in the morning. They will be like chaff that the wind blows away from a threshing floor. They will be like smoke that disappears out of an open window. 
Hosea13:4 The Lord says, ‘I am the Lord your God. I brought you out from Egypt. You must not serve any other God. No one else can save you except me." 
Hosea13:5 I took care of you in the wilderness, where it was very hot and dry." 
Hosea13:6 I gave food to my people, so that they were not hungry. But when they had enough to eat, they became proud. As a result, they forgot about me." 
Hosea13:7 So I will attack them like a lion. I will be like a leopard that waits beside the road. It is ready to catch anything that goes that way. 
Hosea13:8 I will attack them like an angry bear that has lost her children. I will tear them into pieces. I will eat them like a hungry lion. I will attack them and kill them, like a wild animal." 
Hosea13:9 I will destroy you, Israel. There will be nobody to help you." 
Hosea13:10 What has happened to your king? He cannot save you! Where are your rulers? You asked me to give you rulers like the other nations have. You said, “Give us a king and rulers.”" 
Hosea13:11 I was angry, but I agreed to give you a king. Now I am even more angry and I will take your king away!" 
Hosea13:12 I have a record of Ephraim's sin. Ephraim's people will certainly receive their punishment. 
Hosea13:13 They will be in pain like a woman who is giving birth. Her child is foolish. He refuses to be born! 
Hosea13:14 Will I save these people from the power of death? Will I rescue them from their graves? Death, what diseases can you bring? What can you do to hurt my people? I will not be kind to my people and forgive them.’" 
Hosea13:15 Among the other nations, Israel has been successful. It has been like a plant that grows well. But now the Lord will send trouble. It will be like a strong east wind that comes from the desert. Israel's wells and springs of water will become dry. All the valuable things that Israel has stored will disappear." 
Hosea13:16 Samaria's people are guilty and they will receive their punishment. They have turned against their God. They will die in war. Cruel enemies will kill their young children. Soldiers will cut open their pregnant women. 
Hosea14:1 Israel's people, return to the Lord your God! Your sins have caused you to fall down." 
Hosea14:2 Return to the Lord and pray to him! Say to him, ‘Please forgive us for all our sins. Be kind to us as we come to you. We will praise you with our mouths, as our sacrifice to you." 
Hosea14:3 Assyria cannot save us. The horses that we ride into war will not keep us safe. We will never again say to the idols that we have made, “You are our gods.” You are kind to children who have no family. So please be kind to us.’" 
Hosea14:4 The Lord says, ‘My people turned away from me, but I will forgive them. I will love them very much. I will not be angry with them any more." 
Hosea14:5 I will bless Israel's people, like rain that falls on dry ground. They will grow like beautiful flowers. They will have strong roots, like the great trees in Lebanon." 
Hosea14:6 They will grow like a tree that makes new branches. They will be beautiful, like olive trees. They will have a sweet smell, like the forests in Lebanon." 
Hosea14:7 I will give my people shade to live in safely. They will plant crops that give them plenty of food. They will be successful, like a vine that gives many grapes. They will be famous, like the wine from Lebanon." 
Hosea14:8 People of Ephraim, do not let me see your idols any more! I will answer your prayers. I will take care of you. I am like a strong, green tree. All the good things that you have come from me.’" 
Hosea14:9 If you are wise, you should understand these things. If you understand, think carefully about them. The Lord teaches you to live in ways that are right. Righteous people live in those good ways. But people who turn against the Lord fall down and they lose their way." 
Joel1:1 This is the Lord 's message that he gave to Joel, son of Pethuel." 
Joel1:2 You leaders of Israel, listen to this! Listen carefully, everyone who lives in this country. Nothing like this has happened while you have been alive. And it never happened when your ancestors were alive." 
Joel1:3 Tell your children about it. They must tell it to their children, who must also tell their own children." 
Joel1:4 Great armies of locusts have eaten all our crops. Any leaves that first army of locusts left, the second army has eaten. And anything that the second army left, the next army has eaten. Another army of locusts has eaten what remains. And finally another army has completely destroyed everything." 
Joel1:5 Wake up and weep, you people who have drunk too much wine! Everyone who likes to drink wine, cry loudly! Weep, because your new wine has disappeared. Nothing remains for you to drink!" 
Joel1:6 A great army has attacked our land. It has too many soldiers for us to count! They have teeth like a lion's teeth. Their teeth are strong and sharp. 
Joel1:7 They have destroyed our vines. They have cut our fig trees into pieces. They have cut off the bark so that the branches are white. 
Joel1:8 Cry loudly, like a young woman who is wearing sackcloth. She is crying at the funeral of the man that she hoped to marry." 
Joel1:9 There is no grain or wine that we can bring as offerings to the Lord 's temple. So the priests who serve the Lord are weeping. 
Joel1:10 The fields have no crops in them. The ground is dry and empty. There is no grain. There are no grapes to make new wine. There is no olive oil. 
Joel1:11 You farmers should be very upset. You people who take care of the vines must cry loudly. Cry because there is no wheat or barley. There are no crops to bring home for food. 
Joel1:12 The vines and the fig trees have no water and they are dying. There are no pomegranates, dates or apples on the trees. None of the trees have any fruit. And none of the people have any joy." 
Joel1:13 You priests, dress yourselves in funeral clothes! Weep as you serve the Lord at his altar. You servants of my God, wear sackcloth every night. Weep, because no one brings offerings to the temple of your God. There is no more grain or wine for people to bring as offerings." 
Joel1:14 Tell people that they must fast. They must meet together to worship the Lord. Speak to the leaders and all the people who live in this country. Tell them all to come to the house of the Lord your God They must call to the Lord for help. 
Joel1:15 That will be a terrible day! The day of the will soon come. It will be a day when God Almighty brings great trouble. 
Joel1:16 We stand and we watch as all our food has disappeared! The temple of our God is no longer a place where we are happy. 
Joel1:17 The seeds have died in the dry ground. There are no crops to store at harvest time. We have knocked down our store rooms because there is no grain to put in them. 
Joel1:18 The cows move around as they look for grass to eat. You can hear them cry because they are so hungry. Even the sheep are suffering. 
Joel1:19 Lord, I call to you for help. Heat, like fire, has destroyed the grass in the fields. It has destroyed all the trees." 
Joel1:20 Even the wild animals are so thirsty that they call to you for help. The rivers have become dry. Heat, like fire, has destroyed all the grass in the fields." 
Joel2:1 Make a loud noise with a trumpet in Zion! Do this on my holy hill to warn people of danger. All the people who live in this country should shake with fear. They should be afraid because the day of the will soon come. Yes, it is very near!" 
Joel2:2 It will be completely dark on that day. Black clouds will cover the whole earth. A great army is coming. Like darkness it covers the mountains. No army has ever been as powerful as this one is. There will never be an army like it in the future. 
Joel2:3 As they move, they destroy everything in front of them. It is like a fire all around them. The land in front of them is like the Garden of Eden. But behind them it becomes like an empty desert. Nothing can escape from them." 
Joel2:4 They look like horses. They are like horses that are running to a battle. 
Joel2:5 They make a noise like chariots as they jump over the tops of the mountains. They make the sound of a fire as it burns dry grass. They are like a great army that is preparing for a battle. 
Joel2:6 Nations are very afraid when they see this army. Everyone's face becomes white with fear. 
Joel2:7 The great army runs forward to attack. Like soldiers, they climb over the walls of cities. They march forward in their proper places. They do not change their direction." 
Joel2:8 They do not push against each other. Each one of them goes straight forward. No weapons are able to stop them as they move forward together. 
Joel2:9 They quickly attack a city and they run over its walls. They climb into the houses. as they go through the windows like robbers. 
Joel2:10 The earth shakes as they move forward. Even the sky itself shakes. The sun and moon become dark. The stars no longer give any light. 
Joel2:11 The Lord 's voice shouts like thunder as he leads his army. His soldiers are too many to count. They obey all his commands. The day of the is great and terrible! It seems that nobody will remain alive. 
Joel2:12 The Lord says, ‘Even now it is not too late! Show that you are sorry and return to me. Fast, weep and cry to show that you are sad." 
Joel2:13 Show me that you are really upset. Do not only tear your clothes. That is not enough.’ Return to the Lord your God. He is kind and he forgives people. He does not quickly become angry, and his faithful love is very great. He does not like to punish you." 
Joel2:14 No one knows what the Lord your God will do. Perhaps he will change his mind. Perhaps he will not punish you as he has said he will. After that he may bless you. He may give you grain and wine, so that you can offer them to him." 
Joel2:15 Make a loud noise with a trumpet in Zion! Tell the people that they must fast. Tell them to meet to worship the Lord. 
Joel2:16 Bring all the people together. Prepare them to worship the Lord. Bring the old people together, as well as the children and the babies. Even men who have just married must come from their rooms. And brides must also come from their rooms." 
Joel2:17 The priests should weep, as they serve the Lord between the temple door and the altar. They must pray, ‘ Lord, Please be kind to your people. Do not allow the people of foreign nations to laugh at your own people. Do not allow them to insult us. They should not say about us, “Their God cannot help them.” ’" 
Joel2:18 Then the Lord showed that he loved his land. He chose to be kind to his people. 
Joel2:19 He answered them, ‘Listen! I will now give you plenty of grain, new wine and olive oil. You will have as much as you need. I will never again allow people of foreign nations to laugh at you." 
Joel2:20 I will take the army from the north far away from you. I will send it to a dry land where nothing grows. Those who march in the front of that army I will send into the Salt Sea in the east. And I will send those who are at the back into the Mediterranean Sea in the west. Their dead bodies will make a disgusting smell.’ Yes, the Lord has done great things!" 
Joel2:21 Land, do not be afraid! Instead, be very happy, because the Lord has done great things." 
Joel2:22 Wild animals, do not be afraid! The fields in the wilderness again have grass and they are green. Fruit is growing on the trees. The fig trees and the vines have plenty of fruit." 
Joel2:23 Shout with joy, people of Zion! Be very happy because of the things that the Lord your God has done. He has shown you that he is faithful. He has given you rain in the right seasons, as he has done before." 
Joel2:24 Now there is plenty of grain on your threshing floors. Your jars are full of new wine and olive oil. 
Joel2:25 The Lord says, ‘I will give back to you the food that the locusts destroyed. I sent that great army of locusts to punish you. But I will now give you back as much food as all the different locusts ate during those years." 
Joel2:26 You will have plenty to eat. You will not be hungry any more. I have done great things for you. So you will praise the name of the Lord your God. My people will never again be ashamed. 
Joel2:27 You will know that I am among my people in Israel. I am the Lord your God. There is no one else. My people will never again be ashamed. 
Joel2:28 After all that, I will pour out my Spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will speak my message to people. Your old men will see things in their dreams. Your young men will see visions." 
Joel2:29 At that time, I will pour out my Spirit on all my servants, both men and women." 
Joel2:30 I will cause strange things to appear in the sky and on the earth. There will be blood, fire and clouds of smoke." 
Joel2:31 The sun will become dark. The moon will become red like the colour of blood. Then the day of the will come. It will be a great and terrible day! 
Joel2:32 At that time, everyone who calls to the Lord for help will be safe. This is what I, the Lord, have promised. Some people on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem will escape. The people who remain alive will be those that I choose to belong to me.’" 
Joel3:1 ‘Listen! At that time, I will cause the people of Judah and Jerusalem to return. They will have success again." 
Joel3:2 Then I will bring all the nations together. I will take them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat. There I will judge them. I will punish them because of what they did to my own people, Israel. Those nations took my people away to live among other nations. They divided my land into parts for themselves." 
Joel3:3 They threw dice to win my people for themselves. They sold boys to pay for prostitutes. They sold girls to buy wine to drink. 
Joel3:4 What are you trying to do, you people of Tyre, Sidon and the regions of Philistia? Do you want to pay me back for something that I have done to you? If so, I myself will quickly pay you back with punishment." 
Joel3:5 You took my silver and my gold. You took all my valuable things to put in your own temples. 
Joel3:6 You sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greek people. You sent them far away from their own country. 
Joel3:7 But now I will cause my people to return home. I will bring them back from the places to which you sold them. Then I will do to you what you have done to them. 
Joel3:8 I will sell your sons and daughters to the people of Judah. And they will sell them to the Sabeans, who live far away. I, the Lord, have spoken.’" 
Joel3:9 Tell this news to the people of all nations: ‘Prepare to fight a war! Command your soldiers to come together. Tell them to march forward and attack! 
Joel3:10 Take your ploughs and make them into swords. Take your knives that you use to cut your vines and make them into spears. Even weak people must fight like strong soldiers. 
Joel3:11 Come quickly, you nations that are all around. Meet together in the valley.’ Now Lord, send down your army to attack them!" 
Joel3:12 ‘All the nations must prepare themselves. They must march to the Valley of Jehoshaphat. That is where I will sit to judge the nations from all around. 
Joel3:13 Bring your knives to cut down the crops! They are ready to eat! Stamp on the grapes! The winepress is full of them! There is too much wine for the jars to hold. Yes, punish those nations because they are very wicked!’" 
Joel3:14 Great crowds of people are in the Valley of Punishment. It is there that the day of the will soon come. 
Joel3:15 The sun and the moon become dark. The stars stop shining. 
Joel3:16 The Lord shouts from Zion. His voice calls loudly from Jerusalem. The sky and the earth shake. But the Lord is a place where his people are safe. He is a strong place for Israel's people. 
Joel3:17 The Lord says, ‘Then you will know that I am the Lord your God. I live on Zion, my holy hill. Jerusalem will be a holy place. Foreign armies will never come into the city again." 
Joel3:18 On that day, the vines on the mountains will provide plenty of sweet wine. The cows on the hills will provide plenty of milk. All the streams in Judah will have plenty of water. A spring of water will come from the Lord 's temple. It will bring water to the Valley of acacia trees." 
Joel3:19 But Egypt will be an empty place. Edom will become a wilderness. They were cruel to the people of Judah. They killed people there who did not deserve to die. 
Joel3:20 Now Judah will for ever be a place where people can live safely. Jerusalem will always be a safe city. 
Joel3:21 But I will surely punish those who killed my people. I have not forgiven them. I, the Lord, live in Zion!’" 
Amos1:1 Amos was one of the shepherds who lived in the town of Tekoa. God showed Amos the things that would happen to the people of Israel. God did that two years before the earthquake came. It was during the time that Uzziah was the king of Judah. Joash's son, Jeroboam, was the king of Israel. This is the message that Amos received from God." 
Amos1:2 Amos said, ‘The Lord speaks loudly from Zion. Yes, he shouts from Jerusalem. As a result, the green fields will become dry and the grass will die. There will be nothing for the sheep to eat. Even the grass on Mount Carmel will die.’" 
Amos1:3 The Lord says, ‘The people of Damascus have done more and more wrong things. So I will certainly punish them! They have been cruel to the people of Gilead. They used their iron weapons to tear them into pieces." 
Amos1:4 I will send a fire to destroy the palace that King Hazael built. It will destroy the strong buildings of King Ben-Hadad. 
Amos1:5 I will also break the strong gates of the city of Damascus. I will remove all the people who live in the Aven Valley. I will remove the king of Beth-Eden. Their enemies will take the people of Syria far away to Kir as prisoners.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Amos1:6 The Lord says, ‘The people of Gaza have done more and more wrong things. So I will certainly punish them. They caught my people and they took them away from their homes. They sold them to the people of Edom." 
Amos1:7 So I will send a fire to burn the walls of Gaza. It will destroy the strong buildings in Gaza. 
Amos1:8 I will remove the king of Ashdod city. And I will remove the king who rules in Ashkelon city. I will punish the people who live in Ekron city. All the Philistines who remain will die.’ That is what the Lord God says. 
Amos1:9 The Lord says, ‘The people of Tyre have done more and more wrong things. So I will certainly punish them. Before, they had been friends with Israel's people. They had promised the Israelites, “We will be like brothers.” But the people of Tyre did not do what they had promised. They took my people away. They sold my people to the people of Edom and my people became slaves." 
Amos1:10 So I will start a fire on the walls of Tyre. And the fire will burn all the strong buildings. It will destroy them completely.’ 
Amos1:11 The Lord says, ‘The people of Edom have done more and more wrong things. So I will certainly punish them. They took their swords and they chased after their cousins, the Israelites. They were not kind. Instead, they continued to be angry all the time. They did not stop attacking them." 
Amos1:12 So I will start a fire. And the fire will destroy the big city of Teman. The fire will also burn the strong buildings of Bozrah city.’ 
Amos1:13 The Lord says, ‘The people of Ammon have done more and more wrong things. So I will certainly punish them. People from Ammon fought against the people of Gilead. They wanted to get more land for themselves. While they were killing people there, they also cut pregnant women open." 
Amos1:14 So I will send fire. And the fire will destroy the walls of Rabbah. It will destroy the strong buildings too. People will fight and they will shout. They will shout loudly, like the noise that a strong wind makes in a storm." 
Amos1:15 The enemies will take away their king and their leaders. They will take them to another country. The king and the leaders will not be free to return.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Amos2:1 The Lord says, ‘The people of Moab have done more and more wrong things. So I will certainly punish them. They dug up the bones of Edom's king. They burned his bones until they became ashes." 
Amos2:2 So I will send fire to the country called Moab. The fire will destroy the strong buildings in Kerioth town. The people will hear their enemies shout. And they will hear the sounds that their enemies' trumpets make. And the people will die. 
Amos2:3 I will let the enemies kill the ruler of Moab. And I will let them kill all its leaders too.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Amos2:4 The Lord says, ‘The people of Judah have done more and more wrong things. So I will certainly punish them. They refused to obey my laws and my commands. They have listened to their false gods. Those are the same false gods that their ancestors served." 
Amos2:5 So I will send fire to Judah. The fire will completely burn the strong buildings that are in Jerusalem.’ 
Amos2:6 The Lord says, ‘The people of Israel have done more and more wrong things. So I will certainly punish them. They sold righteous people for silver. And they sold poor people for only the price of shoes." 
Amos2:7 They are not kind to poor people and they do not help them. A father and his son have sex with the same woman. They do not respect the holy way that I want them to live. 
Amos2:8 When they lend money to poor people, they take the poor people's clothes as a guarantee. They do not return the clothes each night, as they should do. Instead they sleep on the clothes themselves. They do that at the places where they worship their gods. The rich people take money from poor people. They use that money to buy wine for themselves. Then they drink the wine in the temples of their gods." 
Amos2:9 Remember the Amorites. They were big and strong. They were like the tallest cedar trees and the strongest oak trees. But I destroyed all of them. 
Amos2:10 I brought you out of Egypt. After that, I led you through the wilderness for 40 years. Then I took you to the land where the Amorites lived, so that it would belong to you." 
Amos2:11 I chose some men among you to be prophets, and some to be Nazirites. You Israelites know that it is true.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Amos2:12 ‘But you told the Nazirites to drink wine, like everyone else. And you said to the prophets, “Do not speak messages from God.” " 
Amos2:13 So I will punish you. A cart that has a heavy load pushes down on the ground. That is how I will push down on you. 
Amos2:14 You might try to run away. But nobody will get free. Even the fastest runner will not get free. The strong people will not be strong enough to stop me. The soldiers will not be able to save their lives. 
Amos2:15 Soldiers who shoot arrows will have to turn back. Fast runners will not save their lives. Soldiers who ride on horses will also die. 
Amos2:16 At that time, strong, brave soldiers will run away without their clothes.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Amos3:1 You Israelites, listen to this message that the Lord speaks against you. This message is to all you people that he saved from Egypt." 
Amos3:2 He says, ‘There are many nations of people on the earth. But I chose you alone to belong to me. So I will punish you when you do wrong things.’" 
Amos3:3 If two people travel together, they have first agreed to meet together." 
Amos3:4 If a lion roars in the forest, it means that he has killed an animal to eat. A young lion does not shout unless he has caught something." 
Amos3:5 If there is no food in a trap, a bird will not fly into it. If the door of the trap closes, it means that it has caught something." 
Amos3:6 Also, if the people in a city hear a trumpet's sound, they become very afraid. If bad trouble comes to a city, it means that the Lord has sent it." 
Amos3:7 Before the Lord God decides to send trouble, he first tells his prophets about it." 
Amos3:8 So now the lion has roared! Everyone should be afraid! The Lord God has spoken, so his prophets must tell his message." 
Amos3:9 Tell this message now in Ashdod city. Go to the strong cities in Egypt and speak the message there. Say this: ‘Come to the mountains in Samaria. Look at the cruel things that people are doing in Samaria. Many people are afraid.’ 
Amos3:10 The Lord says, ‘People have forgotten how to be honest. They rob people and they store valuable things in their big houses. They become rich because they are so cruel.’" 
Amos3:11 So the Lord God says, ‘Enemies will come to attack your land. They will destroy your strong buildings. They will take all your good things from you.’" 
Amos3:12 The Lord says, ‘When a lion catches a young sheep, the shepherd will try to save as much as he can. He might save only two legs, or a small part of an ear. It will be the same for the Israelites who live in Samaria. They will escape with only a piece of a bed, or a bit of cloth.’" 
Amos3:13 The Lord God Almighty said to me, ‘Listen! Go and warn the Israelites that they have done wrong things." 
Amos3:14 I will punish them because they have not obeyed my Law. I will destroy the altars at Bethel. The horns of the altar will break off and they will fall to the ground. 
Amos3:15 I will destroy all their houses, the homes that they live in during the winter, and the ones that they live in during the summer. I will completely destroy all their big, beautiful houses, with their valuable things made from ivory.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Amos4:1 Listen to this message, you women who live on the hill in Samaria. You are like fat cows that do not work hard for food. You are like the cows in Bashan. They eat on very good land by the Jordan River. You do not give to weak people what they need. You are not fair to poor people. Then you sit down and you say to your husbands, ‘Bring us more to drink.’" 
Amos4:2 The Lord God has made this promise and he speaks only true words. He says, ‘The time will come, when your enemies will take you away with meat hooks and fish hooks." 
Amos4:3 There are places in your city's walls where people have broken the walls. Your enemies will pull you through those places and they will throw you out towards Harmon. None of you will stay here.’ 
Amos4:4 The Lord also says, ‘You like to go to Bethel. You say that it is your holy place. And when you go there, you do wrong things. So go there, if you must, and do your bad things. Go to Gilgal, if you must, and do more bad things there. You bring your sacrifices there every morning as a gift. But that does not make me happy. Every three days, you bring your gifts. But that also does not make me happy." 
Amos4:5 You bring bread to say “thank you”. You even bring lots of it and you tell everyone, “Look at how much I have brought.” You really like to do that. So continue to do it, but it does not make me happy.’ The Lord God says this!" 
Amos4:6 ‘Earlier I made you hungry in all your cities. There was no food anywhere. But you did not start to pray to me again.’ The Lord says this! 
Amos4:7 ‘Three months before your food was ready to pick, I did not send rain. So all the food became too dry. Sometimes I sent rain to one city, but I did not send it to other cities. I sent rain to one person's land, but I did not send it to another person's land. So that other person's land became too dry." 
Amos4:8 People became weak. They went from city to city to look for water. They were almost too weak to walk. There was not enough water. But still you did not start to pray to me again.’ The Lord says this! 
Amos4:9 ‘I sent hot winds from the east. They burned the small plants, so those plants died. Worms made the other plants sick. So the other plants died. Locusts ate your trees that give fruit. But still you did not start to pray to me again.’ The Lord says this!" 
Amos4:10 ‘I caused many people among you to become very sick. It was like what happened many years ago in Egypt. At that time, very many people got sick. Then I sent soldiers to you. And they killed your young men and they took away your horses. The smell from dead bodies was very bad. But you still did not start to pray to me again.’ The Lord says this!" 
Amos4:11 ‘I killed many people among you, as I destroyed the cities called Sodom and Gomorrah. Some of you did not die. You were like a stick that is already burning. And someone saves it from the fire. But still you did not start to pray to me again.’ The Lord says this!" 
Amos4:12 ‘So I will send trouble to you Israelites again. Get ready! You will see it. Then you will know that I have come to judge you. 
Amos4:13 I made the mountains and I made the wind. I tell people what I have decided to do. I change dawn into night. I walk on the high places of the earth. My name is the Lord God Almighty.’ 
Amos5:1 You people of Israel's family, listen to the sad song that I will sing about you:" 
Amos5:2 ‘You are like a young woman who died young, without children. Now you have fallen down and you will not rise up again. You lie there on the ground. There is nobody there to help you to get up.’" 
Amos5:3 This is what the Lord God says to you: ‘1,000 soldiers will go out from a city to fight, but only 100 soldiers will come back. From another city, 100 soldiers will go out to fight, but only 10 will come back.’" 
Amos5:4 To the people of Israel's family, the Lord says, ‘Come back to me and you will live." 
Amos5:5 Do not go to Bethel, Gilgal, or Beersheba. Do not try to find me there, because I am not there. I will send enemies to destroy those places. They will take the people away as slaves.’" 
Amos5:6 Return to the Lord and you will live. If you do not do that, he will come like fire to punish you. He will completely destroy Joseph's descendants. Bethel and all its people will burn. Nobody will be able to stop the fire." 
Amos5:7 You people change what is right and true to make lies. You are not fair or honest. 
Amos5:8 The Lord made the groups of stars called Pleiades and Orion. The Lord changes the night into dawn, and he changes the day back to night again. He takes the water in the sea, and he pours it out as rain on the earth. The Lord is his name!" 
Amos5:9 He quickly destroys strong people. He knocks down their strong buildings and their walls. 
Amos5:10 ‘You Israelites hate honest judges. You laugh at anyone who speaks the truth. 
Amos5:11 You cheat poor people so that they pay too much tax. You take away their food for yourselves. Because of that, you will not live in the beautiful houses that you have built for yourselves. You will not drink wine from the vines that you have planted." 
Amos5:12 I, the Lord, know all the wrong things that you have done. They are very many and they are very bad. You are cruel to good people. You take bribes to tell lies. Sometimes a person gives money to you to make you tell lies. As a result, poor people do not receive justice." 
Amos5:13 This is such an evil time that clever people say nothing. That is how they keep themselves safe.’ 
Amos5:14 You say that the Lord God Almighty is with you. Stop doing evil things. Do good things, so that you will live. Then the Lord God Almighty will really be with you, as you say." 
Amos5:15 Hate evil things and love good things. When you judge people, be fair and honest. Then maybe the Lord God Almighty will be kind to those of his people who still remain, Joseph's descendants." 
Amos5:16 The Lord, the Lord God Almighty says, ‘All the people will be sad. They will weep and cry loudly in all the streets. They will tell the farmers to weep with them. They will tell the singers to sing sad songs for them." 
Amos5:17 In every field and garden, people will be weeping, because I will come to punish them all.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Amos5:18 You want the great day of the to come. But it will be very bad for you! You think that God will punish your enemies on that day. But that day will not bring light to you, it will bring darkness." 
Amos5:19 Nobody will escape! It will be like a man who runs away from a lion, but then he meets a bear! When he goes into his house to be safe, he puts his hand on a wall and a snake bites him!" 
Amos5:20 Know this: The day of the Lord will be dark, not light. It will bring trouble, not joy." 
Amos5:21 The Lord says, ‘When you have your festivals, I hate them! When you meet to worship me, it does not make me happy!" 
Amos5:22 When you bring burnt offerings and grain offerings to me, they do not please me. I will not accept your friendship offerings of fat animals." 
Amos5:23 When you sing songs to worship me, I will not listen. They are just noise! I do not want to hear the music of your harps." 
Amos5:24 What I do want to see is justice! I want to see that you always do what is right. Those good things should never stop, like a river that always runs with water." 
Amos5:25 You people of Israel's family, listen to me! I led you through the wilderness for 40 years. During that time, did you worship me with sacrifices and offerings? No!" 
Amos5:26 Instead, you have idols that you have made for yourselves. You have the idol of Sakkuth, your king. You have the idol of Kaiwan, your star god. Now you will have to carry them with you." 
Amos5:27 I will send you away as prisoners. Your enemies will take you beyond Damascus.’ That is what the Lord says, and he is God Almighty." 
Amos6:1 Trouble is coming to you people who live in Zion and on Samaria's hill. You think that you are safe. You think that you are important people who live in the best nation on earth. Israelite people respect you as their leaders. 
Amos6:2 Go and look at Calneh city. Go and look at Hamath city. Then go and look at Gath city, where the Philistines live. Are your cities stronger than their cities? Do you have more land than they do?" 
Amos6:3 You refuse to think that trouble might come to you. But the cruel things that you do are causing trouble to come very soon. 
Amos6:4 You lie on beautiful, expensive beds. You do not work, but you rest all the time. You eat fat young sheep and cows." 
Amos6:5 Like King David, you play music on your harps and you sing new songs." 
Amos6:6 You drink lots of wine. You put beautiful oils on your bodies. But you are not sad that Joseph's descendants are destroying themselves as a nation. 
Amos6:7 You will be the first people that your enemies will take away as prisoners. You will no longer enjoy your feasts and wild parties. 
Amos6:8 The Lord God Almighty has promised that this will surely happen. He has spoken this strong message: ‘The Israelites think that they are very strong. But I have turned against them. I hate their strong buildings. So I will give their great city of Samaria and everything in it to their enemies.’ 
Amos6:9 At that time, if ten people are safe together in one house, they will all die." 
Amos6:10 When a man comes to carry a dead body outside to burn it, he will ask his relative, ‘Is there anyone with you in the house?’ The relative will answer, ‘No.’ Then the man will say, ‘Be quiet! Do not speak the name of the Lord!’" 
Amos6:11 When the Lord gives his command, enemies will destroy all the houses, great and small. They will break them all into pieces." 
Amos6:12 Horses cannot run on rocks. People do not try to plough the sea. But you Israelites have changed what is fair and honest into something bad. You have made justice seem like poison. 
Amos6:13 You are proud because you won against Lo-Debar and Karnaim. You think that your own strength did that. 
Amos6:14 But the Lord God Almighty says to you Israelites, ‘I am sending an enemy nation to attack you. They will bring trouble to you everywhere, all the way from Lebo-Hamath in the north, to the Arabah Valley in the south.’" 
Amos7:1 The Lord God showed a vision to me. I saw a crowd of locusts. The Lord was ready to send them to destroy the crops in the fields. They would come after we had taken the early crops to give to the king. Then the later crops were beginning to make grain. 
Amos7:2 I saw that the locusts came and they ate everything. I asked the Lord, ‘ Lord God, please forgive your people. We cannot continue to live if those locusts destroy our food. We are too weak!’" 
Amos7:3 Then the Lord decided not to do it. He said to me, ‘That will not happen.’" 
Amos7:4 After that, the Lord God showed to me a vision of a fire. He was ready to send it to punish us. I saw that it caused the deep sea to become dry. It also burnt all the land." 
Amos7:5 I said, ‘ Lord God, please do not do that! Your people cannot continue to live. We are too weak!’" 
Amos7:6 Then the Lord decided not to do it. He said to me, ‘That too will not happen.’" 
Amos7:7 Then the Lord showed this vision to me. The Lord God was standing next to a wall. In his hand was a string with a heavy weight on its end. The Lord was hanging the string down the wall. He was looking to see whether the wall was straight. 
Amos7:8 He asked me, ‘Amos, what do you see?’ I said, ‘You are measuring the wall to see if it is straight.’ The Lord God said, ‘Understand this. I am ready to measure my people with this string. I will test them and I will punish them for their sins. I will not forgive them any more." 
Amos7:9 I will send enemies to destroy the holy places of Isaac's descendants. All Israel's holy places will fall down. Enemies will use swords to kill King Jeroboam and his family.’ 
Amos7:10 Amaziah was a priest at the holy place called Bethel. He sent a message to Jeroboam, the king of Israel. He said, ‘Amos is speaking against you among all Israel's people. What he is saying will deceive the people of our nation." 
Amos7:11 Amos is saying, “Our enemies will kill King Jeroboam. They will take all the people to a foreign country as prisoners.” ’" 
Amos7:12 Then Amaziah said to Amos, ‘Go away, you prophet! Go back to your own country, Judah. Speak your messages from God to get your food there!" 
Amos7:13 Do not speak God's message here in Bethel any longer. It is where our king and our nation come to worship.’ 
Amos7:14 Then Amos answered Amaziah, ‘My job was not as a prophet. My father never did that work. My job was to work as a shepherd. I also took care of fig trees." 
Amos7:15 But the Lord told me to leave my work as a shepherd. He told me to go and to speak his message to his people, the Israelites." 
Amos7:16 So listen to the Lord 's message to you! You are telling me, “Do not speak God's message against Israel. Do not say that trouble is coming to Isaac's descendants.”" 
Amos7:17 The Lord says this to you, Amaziah: “Your wife will work as a prostitute in the streets. Your sons and daughters will die in war. Enemies will measure your land into separate pieces and they will give it to others. They will take your people away from here as prisoners to a foreign country. And that is where they will die.” ’" 
Amos8:1 Then the Lord God showed another vision to me. I saw a basket with summer fruit in it. 
Amos8:2 He asked me, ‘Amos, what do you see?’ I answered him, ‘I see a basket of summer fruit.’ Then the Lord said to me, ‘The time has now come to punish my people. I will not forgive them any longer." 
Amos8:3 On the day that I come to punish them, people will not sing in the temple. Instead they will weep loudly. There will be dead bodies everywhere. Be quiet now!’ That is what the Lord God says." 
Amos8:4 So listen to me, you who are cruel to helpless people. You try to destroy people who are poor and weak." 
Amos8:5 You say to yourselves, ‘We want the new moon festival to finish so that we can sell food again. We want our Sabbath day of rest to finish so that we can sell grain.’ But when you sell things, you cheat the people who buy from you. You deceive them with false weights, and you make the price too high." 
Amos8:6 When poor people cannot pay their debts, you buy them as your slaves. You pay a silver coin to buy them, which would not even buy a pair of shoes. You also mix dust with the grain that you sell." 
Amos8:7 The Lord has promised this: ‘You proud descendants of Jacob, I will never forget the wrong things that you have done." 
Amos8:8 The whole country will shake because of your sins. Everyone who lives there will weep. The ground will rise up, like the floods of the River Nile in Egypt. Then it will go down again, like the water of the Nile.’" 
Amos8:9 The Lord God says, ‘At that time, I will make the sun go down at noon. I will make the earth become dark in the daytime." 
Amos8:10 Your parties will become funerals. You will not sing happy songs but you will weep. You will wear rough clothes and you will cut off all your hair. You will be as sad as if your only son had died. That will be a very bad day for you.’ 
Amos8:11 The Lord God says, ‘Listen to me! At that time, I will cause you to be very hungry. It will not be because you need food and water. Instead, everyone in the land will want to hear a message from me." 
Amos8:12 People will travel everywhere in the country, north and south, east and west. They will want to hear a message from the Lord, but there will be nothing for them to hear." 
Amos8:13 At that time, your beautiful young women and your young men will become very thirsty. They will be weak and tired." 
Amos8:14 They worship Samaria's idols. They use the names of those false gods to make promises. They say, “In the name of the god of Dan,” or “In the name of the god of Beersheba.” Those people will fall down and they will never get up again.’" 
Amos9:1 Then I saw a vision of the Lord. He was standing beside the altar in the temple. The Lord said, ‘Hit the tops of the pillars so that the whole foundation shakes! Cause the building to fall on the heads of all the people. If anyone is still alive after that, I will cause them to die in battle. Nobody will escape!" 
Amos9:2 They might try to dig deep into the earth to save themselves. But my strong hand will pull them out of there. They might climb up into the sky. But I will pull them down from there. 
Amos9:3 They might try to hide on the top of Mount Carmel. But I will find them and I will take them from there. They might try to hide from me deep down in the sea. But I will command the great sea snake to bite them. 
Amos9:4 Even when their enemies take them away as prisoners, I will cause them to die in battle. I have decided to destroy them. I will not help them.’" 
Amos9:5 The Lord God Almighty will do this! When he touches the earth, it shakes. Everyone who lives there weeps. The ground rises up, like the water of the River Nile in Egypt. Then it goes down again, like the river." 
Amos9:6 The Lord builds his palace up into heaven, with its foundation on the earth. He takes up the water from the sea, and he pours it out on the earth as rain. The Lord is his name." 
Amos9:7 The Lord says, ‘You Israelite people, do not think that you are more important to me than the people of Ethiopia. It is true that I led you safely out of Egypt. But I also brought the Philistines from Crete. And I brought the Aramean people from Kir." 
Amos9:8 I, the Lord God, am carefully watching you Israelites. I see that you are a wicked nation, so I will remove you from the earth. But I will not completely destroy all the descendants of Jacob.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Amos9:9 ‘Listen to me! I will cause trouble to come to Israel's family, as they live among other nations. It will be like a person who shakes a sieve to remove dirt from grain." 
Amos9:10 Those among my people who do bad things will die. They say, “God will not send trouble to us. Nothing bad will happen to us.” But their enemies will kill those bad people in war.’" 
Amos9:11 The Lord says, ‘When that time comes, I will make David's kingdom strong again. It has become like a broken hut, but I will repair it. I will cause it to become as good and strong as it was when King David ruled." 
Amos9:12 You Israelites will fight the Edomites who still remain. You will win against them and the other nations that once belonged to me.’ That is what the Lord says, and he will do it." 
Amos9:13 The Lord says, ‘The time will come when food will grow very well in your fields. People will need to work quickly to cut down all their crops before they plough the ground to plant again. Lots of grapes will grow on your vines. People will work quickly to make wine from the grapes before they plant new vines. So much juice will pour out of the grapes that it will run down the hills!" 
Amos9:14 I will bring the people of Israel, my people, back to their own land. Enemies destroyed their cities, but now my people will build them again. They will live safely in them. My people will plant vines. They will drink wine from their grapes. They will eat the fruit from trees that they have planted in their gardens." 
Amos9:15 And I will plant my people in their own land. That is the land that I have given to them, and nobody will ever pull them out of that land.’ That is what the Lord your God says." 
Obadiah1:1 This is the vision that Obadiah saw. The Almighty Lord says this about Edom. We have heard a message from the Lord. Someone has taken a message to the nations to say, ‘Get ready to attack Edom!’" 
Obadiah1:2 The Lord says to Edom, ‘Listen to me! I will make you very weak. All the other nations will think that you are useless." 
Obadiah1:3 You are proud that you are very strong. But you deceive yourselves. You live among the high rocks where no enemy can attack you. Your home is high up in the mountains. You think to yourselves, “Nobody can reach us and pull us down!”" 
Obadiah1:4 You might try to fly high in the sky like an eagle. You might even try to make your home among the stars. But I would bring you down from there!’ That is what the Lord says. 
Obadiah1:5 ‘If robbers came to rob you in the night, they would only take the things that they wanted. If people came to pick your grapes at harvest time, they would leave some fruit for the poor people. But it will be terrible for you!" 
Obadiah1:6 Esau's people will lose everything! Nothing will remain. Your enemies will take all your valuable things, even if you hide them!" 
Obadiah1:7 Even the nations who have been your friends will chase you out of your own country. Nations who have agreed to help you will deceive you. They will take away your power. People that you trusted as your friends will suddenly catch you in a trap.’ 
Obadiah1:8 The Lord says, ‘At that time, I will destroy the wise men of Edom. Yes, I will remove the clever men from Esau's mountain!" 
Obadiah1:9 Brave soldiers from Teman will be very afraid. All the descendants of Esau who live in the mountains will die. 
Obadiah1:10 You were cruel to Jacob's descendants. They were your brothers but you killed them. Because of that, you will become very ashamed. You will come to a final end." 
Obadiah1:11 A foreign army attacked Jerusalem and they went into the city. They threw dice to decide what valuable things they would take. You stood and watched while this happened. You did nothing to help your brothers. Instead, you were as bad as the foreign enemy." 
Obadiah1:12 When your brothers were in great trouble, that should not have made you happy. You should not have laughed at Judah's people when their enemy was destroying them. You should not have boasted when you saw that they were suffering." 
Obadiah1:13 When my people were in great trouble, you should not have gone in through the gates of their city. You should not have been happy to see that they were suffering. When they were in great trouble, you should not have taken their valuable things for yourselves." 
Obadiah1:14 You waited beside the road from the city. You attacked people who were trying to escape. You caught people who were running away. You gave them back to their enemies. You should not have done that to my people when they were in great trouble. 
Obadiah1:15 The day of the will come soon. Then I will judge the people of all the nations. You will receive punishment in the same way that you have punished others. You will receive the punishment that you deserve for the wicked things that you have done. 
Obadiah1:16 You went on my holy hill and you drank there. In the same way, people of all nations will have to drink. They will continue to drink my punishment until they can drink no more. Finally, they will completely disappear." 
Obadiah1:17 But on Mount Zion, there will be people who are free again. It will become a holy place. Jacob's descendants will take back for themselves the land that belongs to them." 
Obadiah1:18 Jacob's descendants will be like a hot fire. Yes, Joseph's descendants will be like flames of fire. They will completely destroy Esau's descendants, as a fire destroys dry grass. None of Esau's descendants will remain.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Obadiah1:19 Israel's people from the Negev Desert will take the mountains of Esau for themselves. Those who live in the low hills in the west will take the land of the Philistines for themselves. They will also take the land of Ephraim and Samaria. Benjamin's people will take the region of Gilead for themselves. 
Obadiah1:20 The strong group of Israel's people who have been in exile will return. They will take the land that belonged to Canaan's people, as far as Zarephath. The people of Jerusalem who were in exile in Sepharad will take the towns in the Negev." 
Obadiah1:21 The people who have become free will go up to Mount Zion. They will rule over Edom, Esau's kingdom. Then the Lord will rule as King!" 
Jonah1:1 The Lord spoke a message to Jonah, Amittai's son." 
Jonah1:2 He said, ‘Go now to the great city of Nineveh. Tell the people in the city that I know how wicked they are. Tell them that I will punish them because of their sins.’" 
Jonah1:3 But Jonah did not want to obey the Lord 's command. He decided to run away to Tarshish. He went down to Joppa. There he found a ship that was ready to sail to Tarshish. After he had paid for the journey, he got into the ship. He wanted to go on the ship to Tarshish, to get far away from the Lord." 
Jonah1:4 Then the Lord sent a strong wind on the sea. The storm was so powerful that it almost broke the ship into pieces. 
Jonah1:5 The sailors were very frightened. Each of them called out to his own god for help. They threw into the sea all the things that the ship carried. They wanted to make the ship as light as they could. Jonah had gone down into the bottom of the ship. He was lying down and he was asleep. 
Jonah1:6 The ship's captain went to Jonah. He said, ‘Why are you sleeping like that? Get up now! Call to your god for help! Maybe he will listen to us and we will not die.’" 
Jonah1:7 Then the sailors said to each other, ‘We should throw dice to find out who has brought all this trouble to us.’ So they threw dice. The dice showed that Jonah had caused the storm." 
Jonah1:8 So they said to Jonah, ‘Tell us, who has caused all this trouble for us? What is your job? Where do you come from? What country do you live in? Who is your family?’" 
Jonah1:9 Jonah answered them, ‘I am a Hebrew man. I worship the Lord who is the God of heaven. He made the sea and the land.’" 
Jonah1:10 This made the sailors even more afraid. Jonah had already told them that he was running away from the Lord. So they said to him, ‘Why did you do a thing like that?’" 
Jonah1:11 The waves in the sea were becoming bigger because of the storm. So the sailors asked Jonah, ‘What should we do to you so that the sea becomes quiet?’" 
Jonah1:12 Jonah replied, ‘Pick me up and throw me into the sea. Then the sea will become quiet. It is because of me that you are in danger from this great storm.’" 
Jonah1:13 But the sailors did not do what Jonah said. Instead, they tried to use oars to drive the ship back to the land. But the storm was too strong and they could not do that." 
Jonah1:14 So the sailors called aloud to the Lord. They prayed, ‘ Lord, please do not punish us with death if we have to kill this man! Do not say that we are guilty because we have killed someone who has done nothing wrong. Lord, we know that you have sent this storm because you wanted to do it.’" 
Jonah1:15 Then the sailors took hold of Jonah and they threw him into the sea. The storm stopped and the sea became quiet. 
Jonah1:16 When they saw what had happened, the sailors became very afraid of the Lord 's power. They offered a sacrifice to him and they promised that they would serve him." 
Jonah1:17 But the Lord sent a great fish to swallow Jonah. Jonah was inside the fish's stomach for three days and three nights. 
Jonah2:1 From inside the fish's stomach, Jonah prayed to the Lord his God." 
Jonah2:2 He said, ‘When I was in trouble, I called out to the Lord, and he answered my prayer. Yes, I called out to you for help from the deep hole of death, and you heard my prayer." 
Jonah2:3 You threw me into the deep water, and I fell into the middle of the sea. The deep water covered me. You sent big waves to roll over me." 
Jonah2:4 I said to myself, “You have sent me far away from you. Now I will never see your holy temple again.”" 
Jonah2:5 The deep water of the sea covered me, so that my life was in danger. The plants in the sea were all around my head." 
Jonah2:6 I went very deep in the water, as far as the bottom of the mountains. Deep in the earth, I was in a prison, and its gates had shut for ever. But, Lord, my God, you brought me up from that deep hole." 
Jonah2:7 When my life was nearly gone, I prayed to you, Lord. In your holy temple, you heard my prayer for help." 
Jonah2:8 Idols cannot help. People who worship them have turned away from God's faithful love. 
Jonah2:9 But as for me, I will sing to thank you. I will offer a sacrifice to you. I will do everything that I have promised to do. The Lord is the one who saves people!’" 
Jonah2:10 Then the Lord told the great fish to spit Jonah out from its stomach. So it dropped Jonah onto the shore. 
Jonah3:1 The Lord spoke to Jonah a second time. 
Jonah3:2 He said, ‘Now go to that great city, Nineveh. Tell the people there the message that I will give to you.’" 
Jonah3:3 Jonah obeyed the Lord and he went to Nineveh. Nineveh was a very large city. Somebody would need three days to walk all through it. 
Jonah3:4 When Jonah arrived in Nineveh, he walked for one day into the city. Then he shouted out to the people, ‘After 40 more days, God will destroy Nineveh.’" 
Jonah3:5 The people who lived in Nineveh believed God's message. They told everyone that they must not eat any food for several days. Everyone had to wear sackcloth to show that they were sorry. The most important people and the ordinary people all did that. 
Jonah3:6 The king of Nineveh heard about God's message. He got up from his throne and he removed his royal clothes. He dressed himself in sackcloth and he sat in ashes on the ground. 
Jonah3:7 Then the king sent this message to all the people in Nineveh. He said, ‘This command comes from the king and his officers. No person or any of your animals may eat any food or drink any water." 
Jonah3:8 Everyone must wear sackcloth. You must cover all your animals with sackcloth too. Everyone must pray to God with all their strength. You must all stop doing bad and cruel things. 
Jonah3:9 Then perhaps God may agree to forgive us. He may decide that he will not be angry with us. Then perhaps we will not all die.’ 
Jonah3:10 God saw what the people in Nineveh did. He saw that they stopped doing evil things. He had said that he would punish them for their sins. But now he decided that he would not destroy them. 
Jonah4:1 Jonah was not happy when God decided not to destroy Nineveh. He became very angry. 
Jonah4:2 He prayed to the Lord. He said, ‘ Lord, this is what I thought would happen when I was still at home. So I decided to run away to Tarshish, so that you could not be kind to the people of Nineveh. I know that you are a God who is very kind. I know that you forgive people. You do not become angry quickly. You always show your faithful love for people. Even when you have said that you will punish people, you decide that you will not do it." 
Jonah4:3 Lord, please kill me now! I would rather die than continue to live.’" 
Jonah4:4 The Lord replied to Jonah, ‘You are not right to be so angry.’" 
Jonah4:5 Jonah went out of Nineveh. He built a little hut on the east side of the city. He sat in the shade of the hut. He waited to see what would happen to the city. 
Jonah4:6 The Lord God made a little plant grow there. He caused it to grow up over Jonah's head. It gave him shade from the hot sun. This comforted Jonah in his trouble. Jonah was very happy about the plant. 
Jonah4:7 But at dawn the next day, God sent a worm to attack the plant. So then the plant died." 
Jonah4:8 When the sun rose, God caused a hot wind to blow from the east. The hot sun shone on Jonah's head so that he became very weak. He wanted to die. He said, ‘I would rather die than continue to live.’" 
Jonah4:9 But God said to Jonah, ‘You are not right to be so angry about the plant.’ Jonah said, ‘I am right to be angry! I am so angry that I want to die.’" 
Jonah4:10 But the Lord said to Jonah, ‘You are upset about what happened to this little plant. But you did not plant it. You did not help it to grow. It grew up quickly during one night and then it died the next night. You are sorry about such a little thing!" 
Jonah4:11 So it is right for me to be sorry about Nineveh. It is a great city. More than 120,000 people live in it. They cannot understand the difference between what is right and what is wrong. They also have many farm animals.’" 
Micah1:1 This is the message that the Lord gave to Micah, who was born in Moresheth. Micah told this message to the people when Jotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah ruled Judah as kings. God showed Micah what would happen to the cities of Samaria and Jerusalem." 
Micah1:2 Hear this, all you people of the world! Listen carefully, everyone who lives on the earth! The Lord God will speak against you. From his home in heaven he will accuse you." 
Micah1:3 Look! The Lord is leaving his home! He is coming down to march across the earth's high mountains. 
Micah1:4 The mountains will melt under his feet, like wax melts near a fire. The valleys will break apart. Rocks will pour down the hills like water." 
Micah1:5 All these things will happen because Jacob's descendants have refused to obey God. Yes, it is because of the sins of Israel's people. Who has caused Israel's people to turn against God? It is their leaders in the city of Samaria! Where are the places that Judah's people worship false gods? They are in the city of Jerusalem!" 
Micah1:6 So the Lord says: ‘I will destroy Samaria so that it becomes a heap of stones in a field. People will plant vineyards there! I will throw the stones from the city walls down into the valley. I will completely destroy all the buildings. 
Micah1:7 I will break all Samaria's idols into pieces. Fire will destroy all the gifts that the people offered to their false gods. I will destroy all the images of the gods that they worshipped. Samaria's people paid prostitutes at those places. Now enemies will come and they will take away this money. They will use the money to pay prostitutes in other places.’ 
Micah1:8 Because of this trouble, I will cry aloud and I will weep. I will walk about without shoes or clothes. I will cry aloud like a wild dog. I will scream like an owl." 
Micah1:9 Samaria has bad wounds that will not get better. Now the same trouble will happen to Judah! It has reached the gates of Jerusalem, the place where my people live." 
Micah1:10 Do not let our enemies in Gath know about our trouble! Do not show that you are sad! But you people in Beth-Leaphrah, roll in the dirt to show that you are upset." 
Micah1:11 You people who live in Shaphir, your enemies will take you away as their prisoners. You will be ashamed, with no clothes to wear. The people of Zaanan are afraid to leave their city. The people at Beth-Ezel weep. They cannot come to help you." 
Micah1:12 The people of Maroth hope for something good to happen. But the Lord has sent terrible trouble. It has already reached Jerusalem's city gates. 
Micah1:13 You people of Lachish, get your horses and chariots ready to run away! You were the first people in Judah to copy Israel's sins. You caused Jerusalem's people to turn against God." 
Micah1:14 You will have to say ‘goodbye’ to the people of Moresheth Gath. Enemies will destroy their town. The people of Aczib will deceive Israel's kings. They will not help them. 
Micah1:15 People of Mareshah, the Lord will send an army to attack you. Israel's great leaders will need to hide in the cave at Adullam." 
Micah1:16 People of Judah, show that you are very sad. Cut all the hair from your heads to make yourselves bald like vultures. Your enemies will take away the children that you love. They will take them away as prisoners to a foreign country." 
Micah2:1 Terrible trouble will happen to people who do wicked things. They lie awake at night as they make evil plans. When morning comes, they do those wicked things. They have the power to do what they want." 
Micah2:2 They take from other people the fields that they want for themselves. They also take the houses that they want. They cheat people to take their homes and their land. It is land that belongs to those people's families. 
Micah2:3 So the Lord says this: ‘I am preparing to bring great trouble to you. You will not be able to escape. It will be a time when you suffer very much. So you will no longer live as proud people. 
Micah2:4 At that time, your enemies will laugh at you. They will sing this funeral song to insult you: “Great trouble has completely destroyed us! God is taking our land away from us. He has divided our land into pieces and he is giving it to our enemies.” ’" 
Micah2:5 A time will come when the Lord 's people receive their land again. But you will not receive any part for yourselves. 
Micah2:6 The people answered me, ‘Do not prophesy such bad things against us! Do not say that the Lord will cause trouble for us and make us ashamed!’" 
Micah2:7 You descendants of Jacob should not talk like that! Do you think that the Lord will always be patient with you? But people who do things that are right will be happy when they hear my message. 
Micah2:8 The Lord says: ‘You have become like enemies among my people. You take shirts from people who think they are safe. You rob soldiers who are returning home from war. 
Micah2:9 You take for yourselves the beautiful homes of my people's women. You cheat their children and you take away the good things that I have given to them. 
Micah2:10 Get up and go away! You can no longer live safely in this place. You have caused it to become an unclean place and that will completely destroy it. 
Micah2:11 A prophet might come to you and deceive you with lies. He might say to you, “I bring you a message about wine and strong drink!” That is the kind of prophet that would make you happy." 
Micah2:12 Descendants of Jacob, I will bring you all together again. I promise to bring back together all Israel's people who remain. I will bring them to a safe place, as a shepherd takes care of his sheep. They will be like many sheep in a field of grass, a large crowd that makes a loud noise!" 
Micah2:13 The one who has power to open a way will lead them out. They will leave the cities of their enemies. Their king will go in front of them. Yes. I, the Lord, will be their guide.’" 
Micah3:1 Then I said, ‘Listen to me, leaders of Jacob's people! You are the rulers of Israel. You ought to know what is right and what is wrong." 
Micah3:2 But you hate what is good, and you love what is evil. You are cruel to my people, as if you are tearing the skin off their bones." 
Micah3:3 You are like butchers who think that my people are meat. You want to remove their skin and break their bones. You cut them into pieces like meat, so that you can cook it in a pot.’" 
Micah3:4 One day, the wicked people will call to the Lord for help, but he will not answer them. He will not listen to their prayers, because of the evil things that they have done." 
Micah3:5 The Lord says, ‘I say this about the false prophets who are deceiving my people: If someone gives them food, they promise that person will have peace. But if someone does not feed them, they say that war will bring trouble to that person." 
Micah3:6 Because of that, it will become like night for you prophets. You will not receive any more visions. You will be completely in the dark. You will no longer see signs about future times. The sun will no longer shine on you. Even in the daytime, you will be in the dark." 
Micah3:7 Then the prophets and diviners will all be ashamed. They will shut their mouths because they have no message from me.’ 
Micah3:8 But as for me, the Lord 's Spirit fills me with power. He helps me to know what is right. So I am brave enough to warn Israel's people about their sins. Jacob's descendants have turned against the Lord." 
Micah3:9 So listen to this, you leaders of Jacob's people. You are the rulers of Israel. But you hate justice. You take what is right and you make it seem wrong." 
Micah3:10 You use murder and violence to build Jerusalem, the city of Zion." 
Micah3:11 Jerusalem's leaders accept bribes when they judge people in court. Jerusalem's priests only teach people who give them money. The prophets only speak messages to people who pay them. But they all say that they trust the Lord. They say, ‘The Lord is with us. Nothing bad will happen to us.’" 
Micah3:12 Because of how you live, this is what will happen. Zion will become like a field that a farmer has ploughed. Jerusalem will become a heap of stones. Trees will cover the hill where the temple is now." 
Micah4:1 In the last days, the mountain of the Lord 's temple will be great. It will stand higher than all other mountains. It will stand above all the hills. Crowds of people will go there all the time." 
Micah4:2 As they come, people from many nations will say, ‘Come! We will go up to the mountain of the Lord, Jacob's God. We will go to worship him at his temple. He will teach us his laws. Then we can live in a way that pleases him.’ Zion will be the place where people learn about God. The Lord 's message will go out from Jerusalem." 
Micah4:3 The Lord will judge between the people of many nations. When they argue together, he will decide who is right. They will take their swords and they will make them into ploughs. Their spears will become knives to cut their vines. Nations will no longer need weapons to attack other nations. They will not prepare to fight wars any more." 
Micah4:4 Everyone will sit under their own vine and under their own fig tree. Nobody will make them afraid any more. The Lord Almighty has promised that this will happen. 
Micah4:5 People of other nations serve their own gods. But we will serve the Lord our God for ever. 
Micah4:6 The Lord says, ‘At that time, I will bring back together the people that I have punished. I caused them to suffer in other countries, but I will bring them back together." 
Micah4:7 They are like weak people who cannot walk properly. But I will cause those weak people to become strong again. My people who have gone away will become a great nation. Then I, the Lord, will rule from Mount Zion. I will be their king from that time and for ever." 
Micah4:8 And as for you, Jerusalem, you have been a strong place for Zion's people to live in. You have taken care of your people as a shepherd takes care of his sheep. At that time, you will again be an important place where a king rules with authority.’" 
Micah4:9 Jerusalem, it seems that you are shouting loudly because you have no king to lead you. You are crying like people who have no wise leader. You sound like a pregnant woman who has great pain because she is giving birth to a baby." 
Micah4:10 Yes, you people of Zion should shake and scream, like a woman who is giving birth. Soon you will have to leave your city. You will live out in the fields. You will have to go and live in Babylon. But there the Lord will rescue you. He will save you from the power of your enemies." 
Micah4:11 Many nations have now come together to attack your city. They say: ‘We must completely destroy Jerusalem. We want to see Zion's people suffer!’ 
Micah4:12 But they do not know the Lord 's thoughts. They do not understand his plans. He has decided to bring them together, so that he will punish them. They will be like bundles of wheat that farmers hit with sticks on the threshing floor." 
Micah4:13 The Lord says, ‘People of Zion, get up and punish your enemies! I will make you very strong, like a bull that has iron horns and feet that are made of bronze. You will destroy enemies from many nations. You will take the valuable things that they have taken from other people. You will bring their riches to me, the Lord. You will give them all to me, the Ruler of the whole earth.’" 
Micah5:1 People of Jerusalem, prepare your soldiers to fight! Our enemies are all around the city. They are ready to attack us. They will use a stick to hit Israel's ruler on his face." 
Micah5:2 ‘I speak to you, Bethlehem Ephrathah. You are only a very small town among all the towns of Judah. But I will cause someone to be born in you who will rule Israel on my behalf. He will be someone whose family started a very long time ago.’" 
Micah5:3 So the Lord will put Israel's people under the power of their enemies. That will continue until the time when the pregnant woman gives birth. Then the ruler's own people will return. They will join again with their relatives, Israel's people." 
Micah5:4 This ruler will take his place as king. He will take care of his people, as a shepherd takes care of his sheep. He will rule with the strength of the Lord. The Lord his God will give him royal authority to rule. His people will live safely because all people will give him honour. People everywhere in the whole earth will know that he is great." 
Micah5:5 He is the one who will give peace to his people. If Assyria's army attacks our country, they may try to destroy our strong buildings. But we will choose our best leaders to fight against them, seven or eight leaders, as many as we need." 
Micah5:6 These leaders will use their weapons to take power over Assyria, Nimrod's land. Assyria's soldiers may march into our land and try to attack us. But our ruler will save us from them." 
Micah5:7 Jacob's descendants who remain will live among many nations. The Lord will cause them to bless other people. They will be like dew or rain which helps plants to grow. They will not hope for other people to help them. Instead, they will trust in the Lord." 
Micah5:8 Jacob's descendants who remain will live among other people in many different nations. They will be like a lion that lives among other animals in the forest. They will be like a strong young lion that is in a field of sheep. It catches the sheep and it tears them in pieces. Nobody can save those sheep. 
Micah5:9 Israel's people, you will win against your enemies. You will remove them from the earth!" 
Micah5:10 The Lord says, ‘At that time, I will remove your horses from you. I will also destroy your chariots." 
Micah5:11 I will destroy the cities in your land. I will knock down all your strong buildings. 
Micah5:12 I will remove the magic things that you use. You will have no magicians to tell you about future times. 
Micah5:13 I will remove the idols and the stone pillars that are among you. You will no longer worship those things that you yourselves have made. 
Micah5:14 I will pull out the Asherah poles that you worship. Yes, I will destroy all your images of false gods." 
Micah5:15 I will also punish the people of all nations that refuse to obey me. I will show them that I am very angry with them.’ 
Micah6:1 Listen to what the Lord says: ‘Stand up! Explain why you think you are not guilty. Let the mountains and the hills hear what you have to say. 
Micah6:2 Mountains and strong foundations of the earth, you should also listen to me. I, the Lord, am accusing my people. Israel's people have turned against me. That is why I argue against them." 
Micah6:3 My people, what bad things have I done to you? How have I given you trouble? Answer me!" 
Micah6:4 I brought you out of Egypt. I rescued you from that place where you had been slaves. I sent Moses to lead you, as well as Aaron and Miriam." 
Micah6:5 My people, remember how King Balak of Moab wanted to hurt you. And remember how Beor's son Balaam answered him. Remember also how you travelled from Shittim to Gilgal. If you think about these things, you will agree that I, the Lord, have done good things for you.’" 
Micah6:6 When I come to meet the Lord, what offering should I bring with me? I bend down low to worship him, the mighty God. Should I bring young cows that are one year old to make burnt offerings to him?" 
Micah6:7 Perhaps he will accept a gift of a thousand male sheep, or ten thousand rivers of olive oil. I have turned against God. Should I offer to God my firstborn son to pay for my sin? If I give my own child to him as a sacrifice, will that be enough to pay for my sin?" 
Micah6:8 No! The Lord has told each of you what is good. He has shown you how he wants you to live. You must do what is right and fair. You must always be kind to other people. And you must be careful to obey your God. 
Micah6:9 Listen to the Lord as he calls to the city of Jerusalem! If you are wise, you will respect his authority. He says, ‘Listen to me, you people who have met together in the city." 
Micah6:10 I will not forget the wicked things that you do. You fill your homes with valuable things that you have taken from other people. You use false weights to measure the food that you sell. I hate those things. 
Micah6:11 I will not forgive you when you use false scales. You use false weights and measures to cheat people. 
Micah6:12 The rich people among you use violence to get what they want. Everyone in the city speaks lies. They are always deceiving people with their words. 
Micah6:13 So I will punish you with pain because of your sins. I will make you weak and helpless. 
Micah6:14 You will eat, but you will not have enough. You will always be hungry. You will store things for yourselves, but you will not keep them safe. I will cause you to lose the things that you have kept when enemies attack you." 
Micah6:15 You will plant seeds for crops, but you will not bring anything home at harvest time. You will squeeze oil out of olives, but you will never use the oil for yourselves. You will squeeze grapes to make wine, but you will never drink the wine." 
Micah6:16 You have obeyed the evil laws of King Omri and the laws of his son, King Ahab. You have lived in the wicked ways that they lived. So I will completely destroy your power. Then other people will laugh at the people of Jerusalem. The people of other nations will insult you.’" 
Micah7:1 I am very sad and upset! I am like someone who is looking for fruit to eat. But other people have picked the fruit already. I would love to find some grapes or some fresh figs that I could eat. But none of them remain on the trees. 
Micah7:2 No faithful people now remain in the land. People who do what is right have completely disappeared. Everyone is waiting for a chance to murder someone. They are like hunters who use traps to catch their friends. 
Micah7:3 They have learned how to do wicked things with both hands! City officers and judges ask people to give them bribes. Important people always get what they want from others. They all help one another to do wicked things. 
Micah7:4 Even the best person is as useless as a thorn bush. The most honest people are worse than thorn bushes. The time will soon be here when the Lord will punish you. The prophets warned you that this time would come. It will cause you to become confused. 
Micah7:5 Do not trust anyone, even your special friend. You cannot be sure that your friend will always be honest with you. Be careful what you say to your wife, even as she lies beside you." 
Micah7:6 At that time, sons will not respect their fathers. Daughters will refuse to obey their mothers. Wives will argue with their husbands' mothers. People who live in your house will be your enemies!" 
Micah7:7 But as for me, I will continue to hope in the Lord. He is the God who saves me. I will wait for him to come and help me. My God will hear my prayer." 
Micah7:8 My enemies, do not be happy because I am in trouble. I have fallen down, but I will get up. I am in the dark, but the Lord will be a light for me." 
Micah7:9 I have not obeyed the Lord, so I must be patient while he punishes me. But after that, he will speak on my behalf. He will make things right for me. He will bring me out into the light. I will see him rescue me." 
Micah7:10 When my enemies see this, they will be very ashamed. Now they say to me, ‘The Lord your God has not helped you.’ But then I will laugh at them. Other people will stamp on them, as if they are mud in the streets." 
Micah7:11 The time will come when you will build again the city's walls. The borders of your land will grow bigger. 
Micah7:12 At that time, people of other nations will come to you. They will come from Assyria and from as far as Egypt. They will come from places between Egypt and the Euphrates River. They will come from many places across the seas, and from mountains far away." 
Micah7:13 But the earth will become an empty desert, because of the wicked things that its people have done." 
Micah7:14 Lord, we belong to you as your people. Please take care of us and protect us, as a shepherd takes care of his sheep. We are like sheep that live alone in a forest, with fields of grass all around us. Please lead us out to Bashan and Gilead. We can eat there as we did a long time ago." 
Micah7:15 The Lord says, ‘I will do miracles to help you, as I did at the time when I rescued you from Egypt.’" 
Micah7:16 People of other nations will see the Lord help his people. They will be ashamed because their power has finished. They will be very upset. They will not be able to say anything or hear anything. 
Micah7:17 They will move low along the ground, like snakes that eat the dust. They will be very afraid as they come out of their safe places. They will see the power of the Lord our God, and they will shake with fear." 
Micah7:18 Lord, there is no God like you. You forgive the sins of your people who remain, the people who belong to you. You do not continue to be angry for ever. Instead, you love us with a faithful love." 
Micah7:19 You will be kind and forgive us once again. You will remove the evil things that we have done. You will throw our sins into the deep sea! 
Micah7:20 You will be faithful and you will continue to love us, as you promised our ancestors long ago. We are descendants of Jacob and Abraham, and you will be faithful to your promise to them." 
Nahum1:1 This is a message that God showed as a vision to Nahum, who lived in Elkosh. It is a message about the people of Nineveh." 
Nahum1:2 The Lord wants people to worship only him. If people turn against him, he punishes them. He becomes very angry with his enemies. He pays them back as they deserve. He continues to be angry with his enemies until their punishment is complete." 
Nahum1:3 The Lord does not quickly become angry, but he is a very powerful God. If people are guilty, he will surely punish them. You can see his power in the wind and the storms. The clouds are like dust under his feet." 
Nahum1:4 When he shouts a command at the sea, it becomes dry! He causes water in the rivers to disappear too. The grass in the fields of Bashan and Carmel starts to die. The flowers of Lebanon die too." 
Nahum1:5 He causes the mountains and the hills to shake. The earth shakes as he appears. His power causes all the people in the world to shake. 
Nahum1:6 When the Lord is angry, nobody can stop him. His great anger can destroy anyone. He pours out his anger like flames of fire. It causes rocks to break into pieces." 
Nahum1:7 The Lord is good! He is a safe place for his people when trouble comes to them. He takes care of people who trust him. 
Nahum1:8 But he will quickly destroy Nineveh. He will chase his enemies to a dark place of death. 
Nahum1:9 Any plan that you make to hurt the Lord will be useless. He will only need to punish you once and that will be the end of you! 
Nahum1:10 He will completely destroy his enemies. They will be like thorn bushes that a fire quickly destroys. They will be like wine that a drunk man quickly finishes. They will be like dry straw that a fire completely burns. 
Nahum1:11 Someone who makes wicked plans has come out from you, Nineveh. He wants to do evil things against the Lord." 
Nahum1:12 This is what the Lord says: ‘The people of Assyria are very many and they have a powerful army. But I will destroy them so that they disappear. I have caused you, my people, to suffer, but I will not punish you any more." 
Nahum1:13 Now I will make you free from Assyria's power. I will break the chains that they have put on you, as their slaves.’" 
Nahum1:14 The Lord has spoken this command about you, king of Assyria. He says, ‘You will have no descendants and your family name will disappear. I will destroy the idols and the images that you worship in the temple of your gods. I will prepare your grave because you are a useless king.’" 
Nahum1:15 People of Judah, look towards the mountains! A messenger is coming with good news for you. He brings a message about peace. So you can have your special festivals again now. You can bring your offerings that you have promised to give to God. Those wicked people will not attack you any more. God has completely destroyed them." 
Nahum2:1 An enemy is coming to attack you, people of Nineveh. They want to chase you away. Put guards on the city's walls! Watch the road into the city! Prepare to fight with all your strength!" 
Nahum2:2 Now the Lord will make Jacob's descendants great again. Enemy armies have attacked them. They have destroyed their land and their crops. But the Lord will make Israel and Judah great again. 
Nahum2:3 Strong soldiers are coming to attack you, Nineveh! They have red shields and bright red clothes. They are ready for the battle! The metal on their chariots shines as bright as fire. The soldiers wave their spears in the air." 
Nahum2:4 They drive their chariots very fast through the streets. They rush here and there across the city's open places. Their chariots move like lightning. They shine like bright lights. 
Nahum2:5 The army leader commands his best soldiers to go forward. They almost fall as they run to the city wall. They put up their shields to cover their heads as they prepare to attack. 
Nahum2:6 They open the river gates and water pours into the city. The water causes the palace to fall down. 
Nahum2:7 Nineveh's people must leave their city with much shame. Their enemy will lead them away as prisoners. The female slaves make sad noises like doves. They use their hands to hit themselves because they are upset. 
Nahum2:8 Nineveh is like a pool of water. Now its people are running away, like water that is pouring out of the pool. People shout at them, ‘Stop, stop!’ But nobody turns to come back." 
Nahum2:9 The enemy's soldiers say to each other, ‘We will take the silver and the gold for ourselves. The city is full of many valuable things. There is plenty for us all!’" 
Nahum2:10 The enemy takes every valuable thing from the city. They destroy anything that remains. They leave nothing. Nineveh's people are weak and afraid. Their knees and their whole bodies shake with fear. Their faces become white. 
Nahum2:11 What has happened to the great city of Nineveh? It was like a home for strong lions. It was a place where the young lions could feed themselves. It was a safe place where whole families of lions could live. They were not afraid of any trouble. 
Nahum2:12 Nineveh's men were like lions that could kill other animals for food. They could provide plenty of food for their wives and their children. They could bring home as many valuable things as they wanted. 
Nahum2:13 But now the Lord Almighty says to Nineveh's people, ‘I am your enemy! I will use fire to destroy your chariots. I will cause your strong young men to die in battle. You will no longer be able to attack other nations and take their things for yourselves. Other people will no longer listen to the voices of your messengers.’" 
Nahum3:1 Terrible things will happen to you, Nineveh. Your people are murderers and they love to tell lies. The city is full of valuable things that belonged to other people." 
Nahum3:2 Listen to the sound of the enemy as they attack Nineveh! The whips of the chariot drivers make a loud noise. The wheels of the chariots cause the ground to shake. Listen to the sound of the horses' feet as they pull the chariots. The chariots move so fast that they shake. 
Nahum3:3 The chariot drivers make their horses run forward to the battle. Their swords and their spears shine brightly in their hands. There are heaps of dead bodies. They lie everywhere on the ground. There are so many dead bodies that people fall over them. 
Nahum3:4 This has happened because Nineveh has lived like a beautiful prostitute. She has used magic to cause other nations to come to her. She catches people in her trap and she makes them her slaves. 
Nahum3:5 The Lord Almighty says to Nineveh, ‘Now I have become your enemy. I will make you ashamed, like a woman whose skirt no longer covers her body. Other nations will see that you have no clothes. They will see your great shame." 
Nahum3:6 I will throw dirty rubbish at you. I will show everyone that you are useless. I will cause other people to laugh at you. 
Nahum3:7 When anyone sees you, they will turn away from you. They will say, “Nineveh has become a heap of stones. But nobody will come to her funeral.” Nobody will be there to comfort you.’" 
Nahum3:8 Your city is no better than Thebes. That city was beside the River Nile. It had water all around it. The river protected the city, like a wall of water." 
Nahum3:9 Thebes trusted in the great power of Ethiopia and Egypt. Put and Libya were also her strong friends. 
Nahum3:10 But Thebes' enemies took her people away as prisoners. They killed her babies in the city's streets. They used lots to decide who would take each leader as their slave. They tied chains on the leaders and they led them away. 
Nahum3:11 Now you people of Nineveh will also become like men who are drunk. You will try to hide in a safe place. You will try to escape from your enemy. 
Nahum3:12 All your strong buildings are like fig trees with ripe figs on them. When your enemy comes and shakes them, the figs will fall into their mouths!" 
Nahum3:13 Look at your soldiers! They will be like women, too weak to fight! Your enemies will push the gates of your city wide open. Fire will destroy the bars which hold the gates shut." 
Nahum3:14 Enemy soldiers will be all around the city, so get ready! Store the water that you will need. Make your buildings strong. Prepare clay to make bricks for the walls." 
Nahum3:15 But fire will destroy your city. Soldiers will use their swords to kill you. They will destroy everything, as locusts destroy crops. Grow in number, like a large crowd of locusts or grasshoppers." 
Nahum3:16 You have many traders in your city. They are more than the stars in the sky. But they are like locusts. They take everything from the land and then they fly away! 
Nahum3:17 Your guards and your officers are also like a crowd of locusts. On a cold day, they stay together on the walls to be warm. But when the sun comes up, they fly away. Nobody knows where they have gone." 
Nahum3:18 King of Assyria, your leaders are now asleep. Your officers will never wake up again. Your people have run away into the mountains. There is nobody to bring them back together." 
Nahum3:19 Your life will come to an end, like someone with a terrible wound. Everyone will be very happy when they hear what has happened to you. You always did cruel things to people, and nobody could escape." 
Habakkuk1:1 This is the message that God showed to his prophet Habakkuk. 
Habakkuk1:2 Lord, how long must I call out to you for help? You do not listen to me! I shout aloud to you, ‘ Violence is everywhere!’ but you do nothing to make us safe." 
Habakkuk1:3 You cause me to see many things that are not right. You do not punish people who are doing wrong things. Why do you let that happen? People do cruel things and there is violence everywhere. They argue and they fight and they quarrel. 
Habakkuk1:4 The law has no power to make things right. There is no justice in the courts. Instead, wicked people win against good people. The judges decide that bad people are good." 
Habakkuk1:5 ‘All of you, look carefully at the other nations. You will be very surprised at what is happening. While you are still alive, I will do a very surprising thing. You would not believe it even if someone told you." 
Habakkuk1:6 I will give more power to the Babylonians. They are a cruel nation with brave soldiers. They march across the whole earth. They take cities that do not belong to them. 
Habakkuk1:7 They cause people to be very afraid. They obey no laws except their own rules. 
Habakkuk1:8 Their horses run faster than leopards. They are more cruel than wolves that attack in the evening. Their riders come on fast horses from places that are far away. They quickly attack their enemies, like hungry eagles that fly down to catch chickens." 
Habakkuk1:9 Their whole army comes to do violent things. They march forward like a wind from the desert. They make people their prisoners, as easily as if they are picking up sand." 
Habakkuk1:10 They insult kings, and they laugh at rulers. They laugh at all the strong cities of their enemies. They build heaps of earth against the walls, and they take those cities for themselves." 
Habakkuk1:11 Their army quickly moves on to another place, like a wind that blows. They think that their own god has made them strong, and so they are guilty.’" 
Habakkuk1:12 Lord, you have always been God, since the beginning. You are the God that I worship as holy, and you will never die. Lord, you have chosen the Babylonians as your weapon to punish your people. You are a strong rock to protect us, but you have decided to use them to punish us." 
Habakkuk1:13 But you are too holy to accept anything that is evil. You cannot agree with people who do wrong things. So why do you let these wicked people live? Why do you say nothing? They are killing people who are more righteous than themselves. 
Habakkuk1:14 It seems that you have made people like fish in the sea. They are like animals that have no leader to rule them. 
Habakkuk1:15 The Babylonians can easily catch them, like people who catch fish with hooks. They throw their nets into the water, and they catch as many as they want. When they store their fish in special nets, they sing happy songs." 
Habakkuk1:16 Their nets give them everything that they need, so they offer sacrifices to their nets. Their nets give them plenty of good food to eat, so they burn incense to thank their nets." 
Habakkuk1:17 Will you let them continue to do that? Will they make their nets full of fish as many times as they want to? Will they continue to destroy other nations and never stop? 
Habakkuk2:1 I will stand at my place on the wall of the city. I will watch from there. I will wait to see what God will say to me. I have complained to him and now I will see how he answers me. 
Habakkuk2:2 The Lord answered me. He said: ‘Write down what I will show you. Make the message very clear on the place where you write it. Then someone can easily read it, and he can tell the message to other people." 
Habakkuk2:3 What I will show you must happen at the time that I have decided. That is a future time, but it will certainly happen, as I have said. It may not happen very soon, but you must be patient. What I show you will certainly happen at the right time, so wait for it." 
Habakkuk2:4 Look now! The enemy is very proud. They do not want to do what is right. But righteous people will live because they are faithful to God. 
Habakkuk2:5 Wine will destroy that proud enemy. They do not stop attacking other people. They never have enough for themselves. They are like death that is so hungry that it eats as much as it can. The deep hole of death eats everything. The cruel enemy is like that! They want all the nations to belong to them. They catch everyone to be their prisoners. 
Habakkuk2:6 But one day, their prisoners will laugh at them. The people will insult that proud nation with songs and proverbs. They will say, “You have stored for yourselves many valuable things that do not belong to you. It will be very bad for you! You have robbed other nations so that you can be rich. This will not continue much longer!”" 
Habakkuk2:7 The people that have lent their riches to you will suddenly attack. They will come to take back their things and you will be very afraid. Now they will come to rob you! 
Habakkuk2:8 You have robbed many nations. You have murdered people in many lands. You have destroyed towns and the people who live in them. Now the people who remain will come to rob you. 
Habakkuk2:9 It will be very bad for anyone who cheats other people so that he can make his family rich. He thinks that his riches will make him safe. He thinks that he is too high up for any trouble to reach him. 
Habakkuk2:10 But the cruel things that you have done will bring shame to your family. You decided to destroy people from many countries. Because of that, you will pay with your own life." 
Habakkuk2:11 The stones in the walls of your houses will cry out against you. The beams in your roof will also shout aloud. 
Habakkuk2:12 It will be very bad for anyone who kills people so that he can build a city for himself. It will be bad for anyone who does wicked things to make his town great. 
Habakkuk2:13 Listen! The Lord Almighty has commanded this: All the work that people do to get things for themselves is useless. The things that the nations work so hard to get will become smoke! 
Habakkuk2:14 But people everywhere will one day recognize the Lord 's great glory. Those people will fill the whole earth, as the waters fill the sea." 
Habakkuk2:15 It will be very bad for you! You cause your neighbours to become drunk. You are so angry that you make them drink too much wine. You are happy when they are so drunk that you can see their bare bodies. 
Habakkuk2:16 But it is you who will become ashamed, not great. You will become drunk so that people see you with no clothes on! The Lord has a cup of wine in his right hand. He is ready to give it to you as a punishment. You will no longer be great, but you will be ashamed." 
Habakkuk2:17 You have done cruel things to the people in Lebanon. You destroyed their animals. The Lord will punish you for the things that you have done, and you will be very afraid. You have murdered people. You have destroyed the land and the towns and the people who live in them." 
Habakkuk2:18 What value does an idol have? What help can it give? Somebody has made it as the image of a false god. It can only tell false messages. Why should its maker trust it for help? He has used wood or metal to make it and it cannot speak! 
Habakkuk2:19 It will be very bad for anyone who says to a piece of wood, “Wake up!” It will be bad for anyone who says to a stone that cannot speak, “Get up and help me!” It cannot teach you! It has gold or silver to make it look nice, but it is not alive." 
Habakkuk2:20 But the Lord rules from his holy temple. Everybody on the earth should be quiet in front of him.’ 
Habakkuk3:1 These are the words that the prophet Habakkuk prayed. He used special music to sing it. 
Habakkuk3:2 Lord, I have heard the report about you. I see the things that you have done, Lord, and I respect your power. Please do great things like that again. Do them again now for us to see. When you are angry with us, please still remember to be kind!" 
Habakkuk3:3 God is coming from Teman! The Holy God is coming from Mount Paran. His beautiful power covers the whole sky! People praise him all over the earth! 
Habakkuk3:4 He is as bright as the sunrise. His hands throw bright lightning! That is where he hides his power. 
Habakkuk3:5 As he marches to war, bad disease marches with him." 
Habakkuk3:6 God stands ready to fight, and he causes the earth to shake. He looks at the nations and they shake with fear. The very old mountains break into pieces. The old hills fall down flat. He travels on roads that have been there for ever." 
Habakkuk3:7 I see the tents where Cushan's people live, and the people are afraid. The people in Midian are shaking with fear." 
Habakkuk3:8 Was it the rivers that made you angry, Lord? Did the sea make you so angry? You rode on your chariots as horses pulled them! You rode into battle to win against your enemies." 
Habakkuk3:9 You have prepared your bow. You are ready to shoot your arrows. You send rivers of water to cut the earth into pieces. 
Habakkuk3:10 The mountains see you and they shake. Rain pours down from the sky and it causes floods. The deep sea roars and it lifts its waves up high. 
Habakkuk3:11 You shoot your bright arrows so that the sun and the moon stand still in the sky. Your bright spear flies like lightning, and the sun and the moon do not move!" 
Habakkuk3:12 You angrily march across the earth. You knock down the armies of the nations, because you are so angry." 
Habakkuk3:13 You have marched out to rescue your people, and to save your special servant. You have knocked down the leader of the wicked nation. You have removed all his clothes, from head to foot." 
Habakkuk3:14 You threw his own spear into his head, and you destroyed his army. When his soldiers rushed out to attack us, they were laughing. They thought that they would easily win against us, as if we were poor, weak people." 
Habakkuk3:15 But you, Lord, marched across the sea with your horses. You made the waters of the sea shake." 
Habakkuk3:16 I listened to this and I was very afraid. My lips shook with fear when I heard the sound. My bones became weak. My legs would not let me walk. But I will be patient. I will wait for the day of trouble that will come. Yes, punishment will come to the people who are attacking us." 
Habakkuk3:17 Whatever happens, I will continue to thank the Lord. If there are no flowers on the fig trees, if there are no grapes on the vines, if there are no olives on the olive trees, if there are no crops in the fields, if the sheep are dying in the hills, if there are no cows on the farms," 
Habakkuk3:18 I will still sing to thank the Lord! I will be happy because God is the one who makes me safe. 
Habakkuk3:19 The Lord God causes me to be strong. He makes my feet run safely over the rocks and hills, like a deer's feet. This prayer is for the music leader. He must use stringed instruments." 
Zephaniah1:1 This is the Lord 's message, which he gave to Cushi's son, Zephaniah. Cushi was the son of Gedaliah. Gedaliah was the son of Amariah, and Amariah was the son of Hezekiah. The Lord gave this message to Zephaniah when Josiah ruled Judah as king. Josiah was the son of Amon, king of Judah." 
Zephaniah1:2 The Lord says, ‘I will destroy everything that is on the earth." 
Zephaniah1:3 I will destroy people and animals. I will destroy the birds in the sky. and the fish in the sea. I will remove all the wicked people who cause trouble. Yes, I will remove all the people who live on the earth. No one will remain.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Zephaniah1:4 ‘I will attack Judah and the people who live in Jerusalem. I will remove from these places everyone who serves the false god Baal. I will remove all Baal's priests. Nobody will remember them any more. 
Zephaniah1:5 I will destroy the people who worship the sun, the moon and the stars. They stand on their roofs to do that. Some people promise to be faithful to me, but they also worship their god Molech. So I will destroy those people too." 
Zephaniah1:6 I will destroy those people who have turned away from me, the Lord. They do not ask me for help or advice.’" 
Zephaniah1:7 Be quiet and listen to the Lord God! The day of the will soon come. The Lord is ready to offer Judah's people as a sacrifice. He has chosen their enemies to do this. 
Zephaniah1:8 The Lord says, ‘When the day comes for me to offer that sacrifice, I will punish Judah's leaders and the king's sons. I will punish everyone who wears the clothes of foreign people." 
Zephaniah1:9 At that time, I will also punish everyone who worships foreign gods. I will punish those who rob other people to fill their master's house with valuable things. They are cruel people who tell lies.’" 
Zephaniah1:10 The Lord says, ‘On that day, you will hear people at the Fish Gate. They will be shouting because they are afraid. People will be crying loudly in the new part of Jerusalem. There will be loud noises in the hills around the city." 
Zephaniah1:11 Weep, you people who live near Jerusalem's market! All the traders will disappear. There will be no people who weigh silver coins for you." 
Zephaniah1:12 At that time, I will use lamps to find people in Jerusalem who are hiding in dark places. I will punish people who do not think that their sins are important. They think, “The Lord will not do anything to us, either good things or bad things.”" 
Zephaniah1:13 But their enemies will take away their valuable things. The houses of those people will become a heap of stones. If they build houses for themselves, they will never live in them. If they plant vineyards to grow grapes, they will never drink any wine from those grapes.’" 
Zephaniah1:14 The great day of the will soon be here. It will come very quickly. That day will bring terrible trouble. Brave soldiers will cry loudly in the battle. 
Zephaniah1:15 It will be a day when God shows his great anger. People will be very upset because of the trouble that comes to them. Enemies will destroy many things. The day will be very dark, and black clouds will cover the sky." 
Zephaniah1:16 There will be the loud noise of trumpets. Soldiers will shout as they go to fight. The walls of cities will fall in the battle. The strong high towers will fall down too. 
Zephaniah1:17 The Lord says, ‘I will cause people to suffer because they have not obeyed me. They will walk around like blind people. Blood will pour out of their bodies like dust. Their dead bodies will lie on the ground like rubbish.’" 
Zephaniah1:18 On that day when the Lord shows his anger, their money will not save them. His anger will destroy the whole earth, as fire completely destroys things. He will quickly destroy all the people who live on the earth. It will be a day of terrible trouble." 
Zephaniah2:1 Come together! Yes, come together now! You are a nation of people who should be ashamed of yourselves." 
Zephaniah2:2 The Lord has decided the day for your punishment, so come together before it happens. It will happen very quickly, as wind blows away chaff. The Lord 's great anger will suddenly hit you. Do something before that day arrives!" 
Zephaniah2:3 Turn to the Lord, all you humble people of Judah who obey his commands. Do things that are good and right and be humble. Then perhaps the Lord will protect you from his punishment, on the day of his great anger." 
Zephaniah2:4 No people will remain in Gaza. Ashkelon will become a heap of stones. Enemies will chase out the people of Ashdod in one morning. They will also destroy Ekron. 
Zephaniah2:5 Terrible trouble will come to you people who came from Crete, you people who live beside the sea! The Lord has spoken against you, Philistines who live in the land of Canaan! He says, ‘I will destroy everyone who lives there!’" 
Zephaniah2:6 Your land beside the sea will become fields where shepherds feed their sheep. They will have safe places there for their sheep and goats. 
Zephaniah2:7 The land will belong to the people of Judah's tribe who are still alive. They will live safely there. They will use the houses in Ashkelon as places to rest in the evening. The Lord, their God, will take care of them. He will give them success again." 
Zephaniah2:8 The Lord says, ‘I have heard the people of Moab and the people of Ammon. They have insulted my people and they have laughed at them. They have boasted that they would attack my people's land and take it for themselves.’" 
Zephaniah2:9 The Lord Almighty, Israel's God, says, ‘I promise this, as surely as I live. I will cause Moab and Ammon to become like the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Weeds will cover the land. People will dig salt out of the ground. It will become a wilderness for ever. My people who are still alive will take the land for themselves. They will keep all the valuable things.’" 
Zephaniah2:10 God will punish the people of Moab and Ammon as they deserve. They have been very proud people. They have laughed at the people who belong to the Lord Almighty. 
Zephaniah2:11 The Lord will cause them to be very afraid. He will destroy the power of all the earth's false gods. The people of all nations will worship the Lord. They will worship him in the places where they live. 
Zephaniah2:12 The Lord will also punish you people of Ethiopia. He will cause you to die in battle. 
Zephaniah2:13 The Lord will attack the people who live in the north. He will destroy the nation of Assyria. He will destroy its capital city, Nineveh. It will become a heap of stones where nobody lives. The land will be as dry as a desert." 
Zephaniah2:14 Sheep, goats and cows will lie down there, as well as many wild animals. Hawks and owls will sleep on top of the pillars. They will call through the windows. Stones will lie on the ground in front the buildings. Cedar beams will lie outside." 
Zephaniah2:15 All this will happen to that proud city, the city where people were happy and safe. They thought, ‘We live in the best city of all! No other city is as great as our city!’ But now that city will become a heap of stones. Only wild animals will have their homes there. Everyone who sees that place will laugh at it. They will shake their fists because it has lost its power." 
Zephaniah3:1 Terrible trouble will come to this city! It is a dirty, wicked place, full of cruel people." 
Zephaniah3:2 The people of the city do not obey any laws. They do not listen to advice. They do not trust in the Lord. They do not ask their God to help them. 
Zephaniah3:3 The city's rulers roar like lions to make people afraid. Its judges are like hungry wolves. They kill their food in the evening and by the next morning nothing remains. 
Zephaniah3:4 The city's prophets are proud people that nobody can trust. Its priests do not obey God's laws. They cause God's temple to be an unclean place. 
Zephaniah3:5 But the Lord is in the city and he never does any wrong thing. Every day he shows that he is fair. He never fails to do what is right. But wicked people are not ashamed when they do bad things. 
Zephaniah3:6 The Lord says, ‘I have destroyed nations. I have knocked down the strong walls and towers of their cities. I have caused their streets to be empty, with no people in them. Nobody lives in their cities any more." 
Zephaniah3:7 I thought, “Now you people of Jerusalem will respect me! Now you will listen to me when I warn you.” If my people had obeyed me, I would not have destroyed their city. I would not punish them as they deserve. But they all continued to do evil things. Every day they only wanted to do something bad." 
Zephaniah3:8 So you must wait for me to act. Wait for the day when I will show who is right. I have decided to bring together nations and kingdoms. Then I will punish them with my great anger. I will be so angry that I destroy the whole earth, like a fire that destroys everything.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Zephaniah3:9 ‘At that time, I will change people so that they speak words that are pure. Then they can pray to me, and they can all worship me together." 
Zephaniah3:10 My people who now live far away, beyond the rivers of Ethiopia, will bring offerings to me." 
Zephaniah3:11 At that time, you people of Jerusalem will not be ashamed, because you will no longer turn against me. I will remove from among you those people who boast about themselves. There will be no proud people who remain on my holy hill." 
Zephaniah3:12 But I will leave a group of poor and humble people among you. They will trust me, the Lord, to keep them safe." 
Zephaniah3:13 The Israelites who remain will be honest people. They will not speak lies. They will not deceive other people. They will have food to eat and a place to sleep. Nobody will cause them to be afraid.’ 
Zephaniah3:14 Be happy and sing, you people of Zion! Yes, shout aloud, you people of Israel! People of Jerusalem, use everything in you to show how happy you are!" 
Zephaniah3:15 The Lord has taken away the punishment that you deserved. He has sent your enemy's army away. The Lord, Israel's King, is with you! You do not need to be afraid of trouble any more." 
Zephaniah3:16 On that day, people will say to Jerusalem, ‘Do not be afraid, people of Zion! Do not let fear make you weak!" 
Zephaniah3:17 The Lord, your God, is with you. He is strong, like a brave soldier. He will save you. He will be very happy because he is pleased with you! He will give you new life because of his love. He will sing with joy because you make him happy!’" 
Zephaniah3:18 The Lord says, ‘I will bring together those people who were sad because they could not meet together at the festivals. I will take away the trouble that you have had, and you will no longer feel ashamed." 
Zephaniah3:19 Listen to me! At that time, I will punish all those people who have been cruel to you. I will rescue those who are helpless. I will bring back together the people who have gone away. I will cause people to give them honour so they will no longer be ashamed. People everywhere in the world will praise them." 
Zephaniah3:20 At that time, I will bring you back together and I will lead you home. Yes, I will cause all the nations of the earth to respect you. You will have success again, and you will see me do this.’ That is what the Lord says." 
Haggai1:1 The Lord spoke his message to Haggai, his prophet. At that time, Darius was king of Persia. He had been king for one year and five months. On the first day of the next month, the Lord told Haggai to speak to Zerubbabel, Judah's ruler, and to Joshua, the leader of God's priests. Zerubbabel was the son of Shealtiel. Joshua was the son of Jehozadak. This was the Almighty Lord 's message: ‘Judah's people say that this is not the right time to build a temple for me.’" 
Haggai1:1 The Lord spoke his message to Haggai, his prophet. At that time, Darius was king of Persia. He had been king for one year and five months. On the first day of the next month, the Lord told Haggai to speak to Zerubbabel, Judah's ruler, and to Joshua, the leader of God's priests. Zerubbabel was the son of Shealtiel. Joshua was the son of Jehozadak. This was the Almighty Lord 's message: ‘Judah's people say that this is not the right time to build a temple for me.’" 
Haggai1:2  
Haggai1:3 The Lord told his prophet Haggai to say this to the people: 
Haggai1:4 ‘You people are living in beautiful houses. But my temple is still just a heap of stones! It is time for you to do something about it! 
Haggai1:5 I, the Almighty Lord, tell you this: Think carefully about what is happening to you." 
Haggai1:6 You plant seeds but not many plants grow to give you food. You never have enough to eat. You drink, but you are still thirsty. You have clothes to wear, but they do not keep you warm. When you receive money for your work, you soon need to spend it. Then you have no money left." 
Haggai1:7 The Almighty Lord also says this: Think about how you live your lives. 
Haggai1:8 Now go up to the hills to get wood to build my temple again. If you do that, I will be happy. You will worship me there as you should do." 
Haggai1:9 You thought that you would get a lot of food from the crops that grow in your fields. But only a few plants grew. When you brought your food home, it quickly disappeared. I blew it away! Why do you think all this happened? It happened because my temple is still a heap of stones. At the same time, you all work hard to build your own houses. I, the Almighty Lord, am telling you this!" 
Haggai1:10 That is why there has been no rain on your fields. That is why your plants do not grow well. 
Haggai1:11 I have stopped the rain, so that your fields and the hills have become dry. Your crops will not grow. There will be no grapes to make wine. You will not have olives to make oil. Nothing will grow in the ground. Your animals will not become fat. People and animals will all suffer. For all your work, you will get nothing.’" 
Haggai1:12 Zerubbabel and Joshua, the leader of the priests, as well as all the people obeyed the Lord, their God. They were the people that the Lord had brought back to Jerusalem from Babylon. When they heard the message that Haggai spoke to them, they agreed that it was a message from the Lord. As a result, they respected the Lord and they decided to obey him." 
Haggai1:12 Zerubbabel and Joshua, the leader of the priests, as well as all the people obeyed the Lord, their God. They were the people that the Lord had brought back to Jerusalem from Babylon. When they heard the message that Haggai spoke to them, they agreed that it was a message from the Lord. As a result, they respected the Lord and they decided to obey him." 
Haggai1:13 Haggai, the Lord 's prophet, then spoke this message from the Lord: ‘The Lord says, “I am with you.” ’" 
Haggai1:14 In that way, the Lord gave strength to Zerubbabel, Joshua and all the people who had returned to live in Jerusalem. They decided to work hard to build the temple of their God, the Almighty Lord." 
Haggai1:14 In that way, the Lord gave strength to Zerubbabel, Joshua and all the people who had returned to live in Jerusalem. They decided to work hard to build the temple of their God, the Almighty Lord." 
Haggai1:15 They started to work on the 24th day of that same month, in the second year after Darius had become king." 
Haggai2:1 On the 21st day of the seventh month, the Lord spoke again to Haggai, his prophet." 
Haggai2:2 The Lord told Haggai that he must speak to Zerubbabel and to Joshua. Shealtiel's son, Zerubbabel, was the ruler of Judah. Jehozadak's son, Joshua was the leader of the priests. The Lord also told Haggai to speak his message to all the people who had returned to live in Jerusalem. The Lord told Haggai to say this to them all:" 
Haggai2:2 The Lord told Haggai that he must speak to Zerubbabel and to Joshua. Shealtiel's son, Zerubbabel, was the ruler of Judah. Jehozadak's son, Joshua was the leader of the priests. The Lord also told Haggai to speak his message to all the people who had returned to live in Jerusalem. The Lord told Haggai to say this to them all:" 
Haggai2:3 The Lord says, ‘Some of you will remember how beautiful my temple was in past times. Look at it now! It seems nothing like it was before." 
Haggai2:4 But now, Zerubbabel, be strong and brave! Joshua too, and all you people who belong here in Judah, be strong and brave! Now begin to work, because I am with you to help you. That is what I, the Almighty Lord, say to you." 
Haggai2:4 But now, Zerubbabel, be strong and brave! Joshua too, and all you people who belong here in Judah, be strong and brave! Now begin to work, because I am with you to help you. That is what I, the Almighty Lord, say to you." 
Haggai2:5 Do not be afraid. Remember that I made a promise to your ancestors when I brought them out of Egypt. I promised them that I would be with them. My Spirit is now with you too. 
Haggai2:6 I, the Almighty Lord also tell you this: Soon, I will cause the heavens and the whole earth to shake. I will also cause the sea and the land to shake." 
Haggai2:7 I will cause people in all the nations of the world to shake with fear. They will come here to offer their valuable gifts. At that time, I will cause my temple to be full of glory. I, the Almighty Lord, tell you this." 
Haggai2:8 Yes, all the silver and gold in the world belongs to me. And I promise you this:" 
Haggai2:9 This new temple will be even more beautiful than the old temple in past times. Here in this place I will bless my people.’ That is what the Almighty Lord says. 
Haggai2:10 The Lord spoke again to Haggai, his prophet, on the 24th day of the ninth month, in the second year since Darius had become king. This was the Lord 's message:" 
Haggai2:11 The Almighty Lord says, ‘Ask the priests a question about my Law." 
Haggai2:12 A person might be carrying some special, holy meat in his clothes. His clothes might then touch some food. It might be bread, or soup, or wine, or oil. If the clothes that hold the holy meat touch any other food, does that other food also become holy?’ The priests replied, ‘No.’" 
Haggai2:13 Haggai asked the priests another question: ‘If anyone touches a dead body, you know that you become unclean. If an unclean person touches any of these foods, would they also become unclean?’ The priests replied, ‘Yes, those things would be unclean.’" 
Haggai2:14 So Haggai told them, ‘This is what the Lord says: This nation and its people are like that. They are unclean. So everything that they do is also unclean. All the gifts that they offer to me are unclean. I could not accept them." 
Haggai2:15 Think carefully what life was like before you started again to build the Lord 's temple. Do not forget that. 
Haggai2:16 In those days, you hoped to get 20 bags of grain from your fields. But you only got ten bags. You hoped to get 50 jars of wine from your grapes. But you only got 20 jars." 
Haggai2:17 I sent bad weather and other problems to destroy all your crops. All your hard work came to nothing. But you still did not return to worship me, your Lord." 
Haggai2:18 Remember today, the 24th day of the ninth month. You have started again to build my temple. Now you have built its foundation, think about what will happen from today." 
Haggai2:19 You have already eaten the crops that you stored. The grapes, figs, pomegranates and olives are not yet ready for you to pick. But after today, I will bless you. You will have many good things.’" 
Haggai2:20 On the same day, the Lord spoke to Haggai again. He said," 
Haggai2:21 ‘Speak to Zerubbabel, the ruler of Judah. Tell him that I will cause the sky and the whole earth to shake." 
Haggai2:22 Tell him that I will destroy the power of foreign kings. I will destroy their armies. Their horses and chariots will fall down. Their soldiers will fight against each other. They will kill each other with their swords. 
Haggai2:23 But I, the Almighty Lord say this to you, Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel. You are my servant and I have chosen you. On that special day, I will give to you the authority to rule on my behalf. That is the message of the Almighty Lord.’" 
Zechariah1:1 The Lord gave his message to the prophet Zechariah in the second year that Darius ruled Persia as king. It happened in the eighth month of that year. Zechariah was the son of Berekiah and the grandson of Iddo. 
Zechariah1:2 This was the Lord 's message: I, the Lord, was very angry with your ancestors." 
Zechariah1:3 So you must say to the people, ‘The Lord Almighty says, “You must turn back to me, and I will return to you.” That is the message from the Lord Almighty." 
Zechariah1:4 He says, “Do not be like your ancestors. Many years ago the prophets told them, ‘Stop doing those evil and wicked things.’ But they refused to obey me." 
Zechariah1:5 Your ancestors have been dead for a long time. Those prophets also are no longer alive. 
Zechariah1:6 But my commands and my laws which the prophets spoke to the people are still true. I punished your ancestors, as I had warned them. Then they turned back to me. They said, ‘The Lord Almighty has punished us as we deserved for our sins. He has done as he said he would do.’ ” That is what the Lord says.’" 
Zechariah1:7 On the 24th day of Shebat, the 11th month of the year, the Lord gave his message to the prophet Zechariah, the son of Berekiah and the grandson of Iddo. This happened in the second year that Darius ruled as king." 
Zechariah1:8 During the night I had a vision. I saw a man who was sitting on a red horse. The horse was standing among some myrtle trees in a valley. Behind him there were red, brown and white horses." 
Zechariah1:9 I asked the angel who was talking with me, ‘Please sir, what is the meaning of these horses?’ The angel said to me, ‘I will show you what they are.’" 
Zechariah1:10 Then the man who was standing among the myrtle trees said, ‘The Lord has sent these horses to go and look in all the places on the earth.’" 
Zechariah1:11 The men on the other horses agreed with the angel of the who was standing among the myrtle trees. They said, ‘We have gone to look at things all over the earth. We have seen that everywhere is now resting in peace.’" 
Zechariah1:12 Then the angel of the Lord said, ‘ Lord Almighty, how long will you be angry with Jerusalem before you are kind to them? How long will you be angry with the cities of Judah? You have already been angry with them for 70 years.’" 
Zechariah1:13 The Lord answered the angel who was speaking to me. He spoke kind words to the angel. 
Zechariah1:14 The angel then spoke to me again. He said, ‘Give this message to the people. Tell them clearly that the Lord Almighty says, “I love Jerusalem and Mount Zion very much. It is my special place." 
Zechariah1:15 I am very angry with the nations which think that they are safe. I was a little bit angry with my own people, but those nations caused my people to suffer too much.”" 
Zechariah1:16 So this is what the Lord says: “Now I will return to Jerusalem and I will be kind to the people there. I will build my house there again.” That is what the Lord Almighty says. “Builders will measure the land in the city and they will build houses there again.” 
Zechariah1:17 Tell the people clearly that the Lord Almighty says, “The towns where my people live will have great riches again. I will cause the people of Zion to live in peace. I will show that I have chosen Jerusalem as my own special city.” ’" 
Zechariah1:18 Then I looked up and I saw four horns. 
Zechariah1:19 I asked the angel who was speaking with me, ‘What are these horns?’ The angel replied, ‘These are the powerful enemies that took away the people of Judah, the people of Israel and the people of Jerusalem.’" 
Zechariah1:20 Then the Lord showed me four workers with hammers. 
Zechariah1:21 I said, ‘What are these men coming to do?’ The Lord answered, ‘The horns are the enemies that took away Judah's people so that they have become helpless. But the workers have come to frighten the nations that have attacked Judah. The workers will take away the power of those nations.’" 
Zechariah2:1 Then I looked up and I saw a young man in front of me. He had a string in his hand that he could use to measure things. 
Zechariah2:2 I asked the man, ‘Where are you going?’ He replied, ‘I am going to measure Jerusalem. I want to see how wide it is and how long it is.’" 
Zechariah2:3 The angel who had been speaking with me now went away from me. Another angel came to meet him. 
Zechariah2:4 The second angel said to the first angel, ‘Run to that young man. Tell him, “Jerusalem will no longer be a city that has walls around it. This is because there will be many people and many animals that live in it." 
Zechariah2:5 The Lord himself promises that he will protect Jerusalem. He will be like a wall of fire around the city. His own glory will shine inside the city.” ’ 
Zechariah2:6 This is the Lord 's message: ‘Run away! Escape from the country in the north where you have been prisoners. I sent you away in every direction, north, south, east and west." 
Zechariah2:7 Now escape, you people of Zion! Return home from Babylon where you have been living.’" 
Zechariah2:8 Return home, because the Lord Almighty has sent me, Zechariah, with a message. He has sent me to warn the nations who have robbed you. He will use me to bring glory to himself. You are his special people. If anyone hurts you, it is the same as if they hurt God's own eye." 
Zechariah2:9 The Lord says, ‘I will use my power to punish your enemies. Even their own slaves will rob them.’ When that happens, you will know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to you." 
Zechariah2:10 The Lord says, ‘Sing and be happy, you people of Zion. Yes, I am coming to you! I will live among you." 
Zechariah2:11 At that time, people will come from many nations to worship me, the Lord. They will become my people too. And I will make my home among you all.’ When that happens, you will know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to you." 
Zechariah2:12 Judah will again belong to the Lord as his special place in his own land. He will choose Jerusalem as his own city. 
Zechariah2:13 So be quiet now, people everywhere, as you stand in front of the Lord. He is ready to move from his holy home in heaven to do great things." 
Zechariah3:1 In another vision I saw Joshua, the leader of the priests. He was standing in front of the angel of the. Satan stood at the right side of Joshua. He was ready to say that Joshua had done bad things." 
Zechariah3:1 In another vision I saw Joshua, the leader of the priests. He was standing in front of the angel of the. Satan stood at the right side of Joshua. He was ready to say that Joshua had done bad things." 
Zechariah3:2 The Lord said to Satan, ‘The Lord says that you are wrong, Satan. The Lord has chosen Jerusalem for himself. He says that you are wrong! Joshua is like a stick that someone pulls quickly out of the fire to keep it safe.’" 
Zechariah3:2 The Lord said to Satan, ‘The Lord says that you are wrong, Satan. The Lord has chosen Jerusalem for himself. He says that you are wrong! Joshua is like a stick that someone pulls quickly out of the fire to keep it safe.’" 
Zechariah3:3 Joshua was wearing very dirty clothes when he stood there, in front of the angel." 
Zechariah3:3 Joshua was wearing very dirty clothes when he stood there, in front of the angel." 
Zechariah3:4 The angel said to the people who stood around him, ‘Remove his dirty clothes.’ Then he said to Joshua, ‘See what I have done. I have taken away your sin. Now I will give you new clothes to wear.’" 
Zechariah3:4 The angel said to the people who stood around him, ‘Remove his dirty clothes.’ Then he said to Joshua, ‘See what I have done. I have taken away your sin. Now I will give you new clothes to wear.’" 
Zechariah3:5 Then I said, ‘Put a clean hat on his head.’ So they put a clean hat on his head and they dressed him in new clothes. The angel of the Lord stood near to them while they did this." 
Zechariah3:6 Then the angel of the Lord spoke seriously to Joshua. 
Zechariah3:6 Then the angel of the Lord spoke seriously to Joshua. 
Zechariah3:7 He said, ‘The Lord Almighty says to you, “You must live in ways that please me. You must do the things that I tell you to do. If you do that, you will rule over my temple and all its yards. I will allow you to come with the angels who are standing around you." 
Zechariah3:8 Joshua, leader of the priests, you and all the other priests who are sitting with you must listen carefully. You are all like a sign of what will happen in the future. Yes, I will bring my servant, who is called the Branch." 
Zechariah3:8 Joshua, leader of the priests, you and all the other priests who are sitting with you must listen carefully. You are all like a sign of what will happen in the future. Yes, I will bring my servant, who is called the Branch." 
Zechariah3:9 Look! I have put a big stone in front of Joshua! It has seven sides. I will cut the words of a message in the stone. The message is that I will remove the sin of this guilty land in one day.” That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Zechariah3:9 Look! I have put a big stone in front of Joshua! It has seven sides. I will cut the words of a message in the stone. The message is that I will remove the sin of this guilty land in one day.” That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Zechariah3:10 He says, “On that day, you will all ask your friends to come and sit with you. They will sit safely with you under your own vines and fig trees.” ’" 
Zechariah4:1 Then the angel who had been speaking with me returned. He woke me up, like someone who had been asleep." 
Zechariah4:2 He asked me, ‘What do you see?’ I answered, ‘I see a lampstand that is made of gold. It has a bowl on top and there are seven lamps. There are seven pipes that take oil from the bowl to each lamp." 
Zechariah4:3 I also see two olive trees that are standing beside the lampstand. One tree is on the right side of the bowl and one tree is on the left side.’ 
Zechariah4:4 I asked the angel who was speaking with me, ‘What do these lamps mean, sir?’" 
Zechariah4:5 He said, ‘Do you not know what these lamps are?’ I said, ‘No, sir, I do not know.’" 
Zechariah4:6 Then the angel said to me, ‘These lamps are a picture of the message that the Lord says to Zerubbabel: “Your own strength and your own power will not give you success. It is my Spirit that will give you success.” That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Zechariah4:7 It may seem that a great mountain stands in front of Zerubbabel. But it will become flat ground! One day, Zerubbabel will bring the last stone to finish the temple building. Then the people will shout, “God is kind! He will bless it!” ’" 
Zechariah4:8 Then the Lord 's message came to me again. He said," 
Zechariah4:9 ‘Zerubbabel has built the foundation of the temple. He will also finish the building.’ When that happens, you will know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to you." 
Zechariah4:10 It may seem that only a little work has begun. But do not think that it is useless. The seven eyes of the Lord see everything that happens in the world. They will see Zerubbabel as he continues the work on the temple building. That will cause everyone to be happy. 
Zechariah4:11 Then I asked the angel, ‘What are these two olive trees that stand on the right side and on the left side of the lampstand?’" 
Zechariah4:12 I also asked him, ‘I see two branches of the olive trees that are pouring olive oil through the two gold pipes. What is the meaning of those branches?’" 
Zechariah4:13 The angel replied, ‘Do you not know what they are?’ I said, ‘No, sir, I do not know.’" 
Zechariah4:14 So the angel said, ‘They are the two leaders that the Lord of the whole earth has chosen to serve him.’" 
Zechariah5:1 I looked up again. I saw a scroll that was flying in the air. 
Zechariah5:2 The angel asked me, ‘What do you see?’ I answered, ‘I see a scroll that is flying in the air. It is about 10 metres long and 5 metres wide.’" 
Zechariah5:3 The angel said to me, ‘The words on the scroll are a curse that is going out over the whole land. The curse tells about punishment for people who rob other people. God will remove them from the land. God will also remove from the land those people who tell lies against other people." 
Zechariah5:4 The Lord Almighty says, “I will send out this scroll to take a curse into the house of robbers. I will also send it into the house of people who use my name to tell lies. The curse will remain in their houses. It will completely destroy all the wood and the stones of their houses.” ’" 
Zechariah5:5 Then the angel who was speaking to me came forward. He said, ‘Look up. See the thing that has now appeared.’" 
Zechariah5:6 I asked, ‘What is it?’ He said, ‘It is a basket that people use to measure grain.’ He also said, ‘It shows the sin of all the people in the land.’" 
Zechariah5:7 There was a heavy metal lid that covered the basket. As I looked, the angel lifted up the lid. I could see a woman who was sitting in the basket." 
Zechariah5:8 The angel said, ‘This woman shows what sin is.’ Then he pushed her down into the basket again. He put the heavy metal lid back on top of the basket." 
Zechariah5:9 Then I looked up and I saw two women. They had strong wings, like the wings of a large bird. The wind carried them towards me. They lifted the big basket up high into the sky." 
Zechariah5:10 I asked the angel who was speaking with me, ‘Where will these women take the basket?’" 
Zechariah5:11 The angel said to me, ‘They will take it to the country of Babylon. They will build a temple for it there. When the temple is ready, they will put the basket in it. They will put it in a place of honour there.’" 
Zechariah6:1 I looked up again and I saw four chariots. They came out from between two mountains that were made of bronze. 
Zechariah6:2 The first chariot had red horses to pull it. The second chariot had black horses. 
Zechariah6:3 The third chariot had white horses. The fourth chariot had grey horses. All the horses were strong. 
Zechariah6:4 Then I asked the angel who was speaking with me, ‘What are these chariots, sir?’" 
Zechariah6:5 The angel answered me, ‘These are the four spirits of heaven. They have come from the Lord of all the earth." 
Zechariah6:6 The chariot with the black horses is going towards the north country. The chariot with the white horses is going after them. The chariot with the grey horses is going towards the south country.’ 
Zechariah6:7 When these strong horses came out, they were in a hurry to leave. They wanted to travel everywhere on the earth. The Lord had told them, ‘Go and look everywhere in the whole earth.’ So that is what the horses did." 
Zechariah6:8 Then the Lord called to me. He said, ‘Look! The horses that have gone to the north country have caused my Spirit to have peace. I am no longer angry about the north country.’" 
Zechariah6:9 The Lord gave this message to me: 
Zechariah6:10 ‘Three men have come back from Babylon, where they were prisoners. Their names are Heldai, Tobijah and Jedaiah. Take the gifts that they have brought with them. Then go immediately to the house of Zephaniah's son, Josiah." 
Zechariah6:10 ‘Three men have come back from Babylon, where they were prisoners. Their names are Heldai, Tobijah and Jedaiah. Take the gifts that they have brought with them. Then go immediately to the house of Zephaniah's son, Josiah." 
Zechariah6:11 Use some of the gold and silver to make a royal crown. Then put it on the head of Jehozadak's son, Joshua, the leader of the priests." 
Zechariah6:11 Use some of the gold and silver to make a royal crown. Then put it on the head of Jehozadak's son, Joshua, the leader of the priests." 
Zechariah6:12 Say to Joshua, “The Lord Almighty says, ‘Here is the man whose name is the Branch. He will grow and become great in this place. He will build the Lord 's temple." 
Zechariah6:12 Say to Joshua, “The Lord Almighty says, ‘Here is the man whose name is the Branch. He will grow and become great in this place. He will build the Lord 's temple." 
Zechariah6:13 Yes, he is the one who will build the Lord 's temple. He will wear royal clothes. He will sit on his throne and he will rule his people as their king. There will be a priest with him on his throne. They will both completely agree with each other as they work together.’ ”" 
Zechariah6:14 They will put the crown in the Lord 's temple. It will cause people to give honour to Heldai, Tobijah, Jedaiah and Zephaniah's son Josiah." 
Zechariah6:14 They will put the crown in the Lord 's temple. It will cause people to give honour to Heldai, Tobijah, Jedaiah and Zephaniah's son Josiah." 
Zechariah6:15 People will come to Jerusalem from places that are far away. They will help to build the Lord 's temple. When this happens, you will know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to you. It will happen if you remember to obey the commands of the Lord your God.’" 
Zechariah7:1 In the fourth year that Darius was king, the Lord spoke to Zechariah. It happened on the fourth day of the ninth month that is called Kislev." 
Zechariah7:2 At that time, the people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regem-Melech and their men to Jerusalem. They came to ask the Lord to bless them." 
Zechariah7:3 They came to the temple of the Lord Almighty to speak to the priests and to the prophets. They asked, ‘Should we continue to weep and to fast in the fifth month each year? We have done this for many years.’" 
Zechariah7:4 The Lord Almighty then gave this message to me. 
Zechariah7:5 He said, ‘Speak to all the people in this land and to the priests. Tell them, “You were prisoners in another country for 70 years. At that time, you were sad and you fasted in the fifth month and in the seventh month of each year. But you did not really do this to give me honour." 
Zechariah7:6 Also, when you eat and you drink at special times, you do that to please yourselves.” ’" 
Zechariah7:7 This is the same message from the Lord that the prophets spoke in past years. At that time, many people lived in Jerusalem and they were happy. Many people also lived in the towns around Jerusalem, in the Negev region and in the low hills in the west." 
Zechariah7:8 The Lord spoke again to Zechariah. 
Zechariah7:9 He said, ‘This is what the Lord Almighty says to the people: “Be sure that you do what is right and fair. Be kind and help each other." 
Zechariah7:10 Do not be cruel to widows or to children who have no family. Do not cheat foreigners or poor people. Do not think of ways to do bad things to each other.” ’ 
Zechariah7:11 But the people did not obey the Lord 's commands. They turned away from him and they refused to listen to him. 
Zechariah7:12 They were too proud to accept his laws. They would not obey the messages that the Lord Almighty used his prophets to speak to them in past times. It was God's Spirit that spoke those messages through the prophets. Because of that, the Lord Almighty was very angry with them." 
Zechariah7:13 The Lord Almighty says, ‘When I called out to my people, they refused to listen to me. So when they called out to me, I refused to listen to them." 
Zechariah7:14 Instead, like a strong wind, I blew them away! I sent them to live among other nations that they did not know. The land that they left became an empty place where nobody lived. They caused a beautiful land to become like a desert.’" 
Zechariah8:1 The Lord Almighty gave this message to me: 
Zechariah8:2 ‘I love Zion very much because it is my special place. I am very angry with anyone who hurts my people who live there.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Zechariah8:3 The Lord says, ‘I will return to Zion and I will live in Jerusalem. Jerusalem will be called “City of Faithful People”. The mountain of the Lord Almighty will be called “God's Holy Mountain”.’" 
Zechariah8:4 The Lord Almighty also says, ‘Old men and old women will walk in Jerusalem's streets with their walking sticks. They will sit and talk together in the public places." 
Zechariah8:5 Many boys and girls will play in the city's streets.’ 
Zechariah8:6 The Lord Almighty says, ‘For the few people who remain in those days, this may seem an impossible thing to happen. But it is not a difficult thing for me to do.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Zechariah8:7 The Lord Almighty says, ‘I will rescue my people from the countries in the east and in the west." 
Zechariah8:8 I will bring them back to live in Jerusalem. They will be my people and I will be their God. I will rule them in a way that is faithful and right.’ 
Zechariah8:9 The Lord Almighty also says, ‘You have heard the message that the prophets spoke when people were building the temple's foundation. So now be strong and brave! Finish building the house of the Lord Almighty." 
Zechariah8:10 Before that time, there was not enough money to pay for work that men or animals did. People could not travel safely anywhere because of their enemies. I caused people to hate each other." 
Zechariah8:11 But I will no longer do that to my people who remain. I will act differently from how I did in past times. 
Zechariah8:12 My people will be able to plant seeds safely in their fields. Their vines will provide plenty of grapes. Crops will grow well in their fields. There will be plenty of rain. My people who remain will enjoy all these things for themselves. 
Zechariah8:13 People of Judah and Israel, in past times other nations used your names as a curse. So now I will save you. You will provide a blessing to other nations instead of a curse. Do not be afraid! Be brave and strong.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Zechariah8:14 The Lord Almighty says, ‘When your ancestors made me angry, I decided to punish you. I would not change my mind about that." 
Zechariah8:15 But now I have decided to be kind to the people of Jerusalem and Judah. So do not be afraid! 
Zechariah8:16 These are the things that you must do. Each of you must speak true words to each other. In your courts, do what is right and fair." 
Zechariah8:17 Do not think of evil things that you can do to other people. Do not make false promises. All these things make me very angry.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Zechariah8:18 The Lord Almighty gave me another message. 
Zechariah8:19 He said, ‘There are special times each year when you fast. Those times are in the fourth, fifth, seventh and tenth months. Those times will now become happy feasts that the people of Judah should enjoy. So you must love truth and peace.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Zechariah8:20 The Lord Almighty also says, ‘One day, foreign people who live in many different cities will come to Jerusalem." 
Zechariah8:21 The people of one city will go and speak to the people of another city. They will say, “Come with us to Jerusalem to ask the Lord to bless us. We will go and worship the Lord Almighty. I am going there, so come with me.”" 
Zechariah8:22 People from many places and from powerful nations will come to Jerusalem to worship the Lord Almighty. They will ask him to bless them.’ 
Zechariah8:23 The Lord Almighty says, ‘At that time, people who speak many different languages will come from all other nations. Ten of them will go to one Jew and they will take hold of his coat. They will say to him, “People have told us that God is with you. So please let us go with you to worship him.” ’" 
Zechariah9:1 This is a message from the Lord against the land of Hadrach. It speaks about the city of Damascus. Everyone looks to see what the Lord will do, including all the tribes of Israel." 
Zechariah9:2 The people of Hamath, which is near Damascus, also wait to see what the Lord will do. The people in the cities of Tyre and Sidon also do this, even though they are very wise." 
Zechariah9:3 Tyre's people have built strong walls around their city to keep it safe. They have stored a lot of silver and gold, as much as the dirt and mud in their streets!" 
Zechariah9:4 But now the Lord God will take away all Tyre's valuable things. He will throw all its power into the sea! Fire will destroy the whole city. 
Zechariah9:5 The people in Ashkelon city will see what has happened to Tyre. They will be afraid. The people in Gaza city will shake with fear. The people in Ekron city will also be afraid. They will no longer hope for good things. The people of Gaza will no longer have a king. Ashkelon will become an empty place. 
Zechariah9:6 Foreign people will make Ashdod city their home. I, the Lord, will cause the proud Philistine people to be ashamed." 
Zechariah9:7 I will remove from their mouths the meat of sacrifices that they have offered to their idols. Those Philistines who remain will become a group of people who belong to me. They will be like a clan in the tribe of Judah. The Philistines of Ekron will join the people of Judah, as the Jebusites did long ago." 
Zechariah9:8 Then I will keep my temple safe. I will protect it like a guard. I will not allow an enemy to attack my people any more. Now I am watching carefully and I will take care of them. 
Zechariah9:9 Be happy and sing, people of Zion! Shout with joy, people of Jerusalem! Look! Your king is coming to you. He is righteous and he has won against his enemies. He is humble and he is riding on a donkey. Yes, he is riding on a young donkey." 
Zechariah9:10 I will remove the chariots from Ephraim. I will remove the soldiers' horses from Jerusalem, and I will destroy their bows and their arrows. The king will tell the nations that they will live in peace. He will rule as king from the sea in the west to the sea in the east. He will rule everywhere, from the Euphrates River to the furthest places on the earth." 
Zechariah9:11 I made a covenant with you, my people. The blood of sacrifices showed that you agreed with that covenant. Now some of you are prisoners. I will rescue those prisoners from dark places where there is no water." 
Zechariah9:12 Yes, you prisoners who now have hope of better things, return home where you will be safe. I tell you this today: I will give back to you twice as much as you have lost." 
Zechariah9:13 I will use Judah as my bow and Ephraim as my arrow to attack my enemies! I will use you, young men of Zion, to attack the soldiers of Greece. I will cause Zion to be like a soldier's sword in my hand." 
Zechariah9:14 Then the Lord will appear above his people. He will shoot his arrows like lightning in the sky. The Almighty Lord will make a loud noise with his trumpet. He will march into battle like a storm from the south. 
Zechariah9:15 The Lord Almighty will protect his people. They will attack their enemies with stones from their slings and they will win the battle. They will drink and they will shout loudly, like men who are drunk. The blood of their enemies will make them full, as a priest's bowl is full of blood when he pours it on the corners of the altar." 
Zechariah9:16 On that day, the Lord their God will rescue his people, as a shepherd rescues his sheep. They will live in his land, like bright jewels that shine in a crown." 
Zechariah9:17 It will all be very good and beautiful! Grain from the land will make the young men strong. The young women will become strong as they drink new wine. 
Zechariah10:1 Ask the Lord for rain in spring. It is the Lord who makes the clouds that give us rain. He will provide rain for everyone, so that crops grow in the fields." 
Zechariah10:2 When people ask their idols for help, the idols deceive them. People who use magic to know what will happen see false visions. People who explain the meaning of dreams tell lies. They cannot help anyone to be strong. As a result, people have nobody to show them the right way. They move around like sheep that have no shepherd to take care of them." 
Zechariah10:3 The Lord says, ‘I am very angry with the shepherds of my people. I will punish the leaders.’ Like a shepherd, the Lord Almighty takes care of his people. He will cause Judah's people to become strong, like horses that are ready to fight in a battle." 
Zechariah10:4 From among Judah's descendants a strong leader will appear. He is like the most important stone at the corner of a building. He is like a strong peg in a wall. He is like a bow that is ready to shoot arrows. Every strong ruler will come from Judah's descendants. 
Zechariah10:5 Together they will be like brave soldiers who stamp on their enemies in the mud of the streets. The Lord is with them as they fight. They will pull down the enemy soldiers who ride on horses. 
Zechariah10:6 The Lord says, ‘I will make Judah's people strong. I will rescue Israel's people. I will bring them back home, because I am sorry for them. It will seem as if I had never turned away from them. I am the Lord, their God, so I will answer their prayers." 
Zechariah10:7 Israel's people will be like brave soldiers. They will be as happy as men that have drunk wine. Their children will also see this and they will be happy too. They will sing with joy because of the things that the Lord has done. 
Zechariah10:8 I will call out to my people to come home. I have done what is necessary to rescue them. They will grow in number to be as many people as they were before. 
Zechariah10:9 I have sent them away to live among other nations. But they will remember me in those countries far away. They and their children will remain alive. They will return home together. 
Zechariah10:10 I will bring my people back from Egypt and from Assyria. I will bring them to live in Gilead and in Lebanon. Their own land will not be big enough for all of them. 
Zechariah10:11 When my people need to go across the sea of many troubles, I will cause its waves to stop. I will cause the deep water of the River Nile to become dry. Proud Assyria will become ashamed. Egypt will no longer have the power to rule other nations." 
Zechariah10:12 I will use my power to make my people strong. They will give me honour wherever they go.’ That is what the Lord says. 
Zechariah11:1 Open the gates of your land, Lebanon, so that the fire can destroy your cedar trees." 
Zechariah11:2 Cry aloud, pine trees, because the cedar trees have fallen. The great trees are completely spoiled. Cry aloud, Bashan's oak trees. Enemies have cut down the whole forest." 
Zechariah11:3 Listen to the shepherds as they cry aloud! Enemies have destroyed the fields where their sheep feed. Listen to the young lions as they roar! The trees of the Jordan Valley are completely spoiled. 
Zechariah11:4 The Lord my God said this: ‘You must take care of my people, as a shepherd takes care of his sheep. My people are like sheep that people will soon kill." 
Zechariah11:5 The people who buy the sheep will kill them. But nobody will punish them for this. The people who sell the sheep are happy. They say, “ Praise the Lord! Now I am rich.” Even the shepherds do not feel sorry for their own sheep.’" 
Zechariah11:6 The Lord says, ‘I myself will no longer feel sorry for the people of this land. I will put them under the power of other people. I will put them under the power of their own king. Those powerful people will destroy the land, and I will not rescue the people.’" 
Zechariah11:7 So I became a shepherd for the sheep that people would soon kill. I took good care of the weakest sheep. Then I took two shepherd's sticks. I called one stick ‘Kind’ and I called the other stick ‘Together’. I took good care of the sheep. 
Zechariah11:8 In one month, I removed the three other shepherds. I could not be patient with them and they hated me." 
Zechariah11:9 I said, ‘I will not be a shepherd for you any longer. If sheep are dying, I will allow them to die. If sheep are becoming lost, I will allow them to be lost. As for the sheep that still remain, they can destroy each other.’" 
Zechariah11:10 I took hold of my stick that was called ‘Kind’. I broke it into two pieces. This showed that I had caused my covenant to finish. That was the covenant that I had agreed with all the people. 
Zechariah11:11 It was on that day that the covenant finished. The men who bought and sold sheep saw what I was doing. So they knew that it was a message from the Lord. 
Zechariah11:12 I said to them, ‘If you think it is right, you should pay me for my work. But do not pay me if you do not think it is right.’ So they decided to pay me 30 silver coins." 
Zechariah11:13 The Lord said to me, ‘Throw the money to the potter! They think that I am worth only 30 silver coins!’ So I took the money and I threw them to the potter at the Lord 's temple." 
Zechariah11:14 Then I broke the second stick into two pieces. That was the stick called ‘Together’. This showed that the kingdom of Judah would become separate from the kingdom of Israel. 
Zechariah11:15 Then the Lord said to me, ‘Take again the things that a foolish shepherd would use." 
Zechariah11:16 I will now bring another shepherd to rule in this land. He will not help the sheep that will soon die. He will not look for the sheep that are becoming lost. He will not help the sick sheep to become well again. He will not even feed the sheep that are healthy. Instead, he will eat the meat of the fat sheep. He will even pull off their feet for himself." 
Zechariah11:17 Terrible things will happen to the useless shepherd who leaves his sheep. His enemy's sword will cut his arm and his right eye. His arm will become weak and useless. His right eye will become completely blind.’ 
Zechariah12:1 This is the Lord 's message that he spoke about Israel. He is the Lord who made all the heavens and who created the whole earth. He is the one who gives life to men and women. He says: 
Zechariah12:2 ‘Look! I will cause Jerusalem to become like a bowl that is full of wine! The nations that are near will drink from it and they will become drunk. They will attack Jerusalem and the other cities of Judah. 
Zechariah12:3 On that day, I will cause Jerusalem to be like a heavy rock. Any army that tries to move it will hurt themselves very much. But all the nations of the earth will come together to attack Jerusalem.’" 
Zechariah12:4 The Lord says, ‘On that day, I will cause every horse to become confused. I will cause their riders to be crazy. I will take care of Judah's people. But I will make the horses of their enemies blind." 
Zechariah12:5 Then the leaders of Judah will say to themselves, “Jerusalem's people are strong because the Lord Almighty is their God.”" 
Zechariah12:6 On that day, I will make Judah's leaders like a flame that starts a fire in a heap of wood. They will be like a fire in a field of dry grass. They will destroy all the nations that are everywhere around them. Then the people of Jerusalem will live safely in the city." 
Zechariah12:7 I, the Lord, will save the homes of Judah first, before I rescue Jerusalem's people. As a result, the descendants of King David and the people of Jerusalem will not receive greater honour than other places in Judah." 
Zechariah12:8 On that day, the Lord will save the people who live in Jerusalem. Even the people who are very weak will become strong again, like great King David. King David's descendants will rule the people, as if the angel of the himself is leading them." 
Zechariah12:9 On that day, I will begin to destroy all the nations that attack Jerusalem." 
Zechariah12:10 I, the Lord, will pour a new spirit on David's descendants and on the people who live in Jerusalem. That spirit will cause them to be kind and to pray for help. So they will look towards me. They will see the one that they have pushed a spear into. They will be sad and weep, as parents weep after the death of their only son. They will weep loudly, as if their firstborn son has died." 
Zechariah12:11 On that day, the people in Jerusalem will weep very much. They will be as sad as the people were at Hadad-Rimmon, in the fields of Megiddo." 
Zechariah12:12 All the people in the land of Judah will weep in separate groups. One group will be the clan of David's descendants. Their wives will weep in another group. The clan of Nathan's descendants will weep together as a group. Their wives will weep in a separate group. 
Zechariah12:13 The clan of Levi's descendants will also weep as a group. And their wives will weep as a group. The clan of Shimei's descendants will weep as a group. And their wives will weep as a group. 
Zechariah12:14 All the other clans of Judah that still remain will also weep in groups, as well as their wives in separate groups.’" 
Zechariah13:1 ‘On that day, water will start to pour from a fountain for King David's descendants and for Jerusalem's people. It will make them clean from their sins and the things that have made them unclean.’" 
Zechariah13:2 The Lord Almighty says, ‘On that day, I will remove the names of idols from the land. Nobody will remember them any more. I will also remove from the land the false prophets and the bad spirit that deceives them." 
Zechariah13:3 Because of that, if anyone continues to prophesy, his own father and mother will say to him, “You must die. You say that you speak with the Lord 's authority, but you tell lies.” Then his own parents will use a sword to kill him as he prophesies lies." 
Zechariah13:4 On that day, every prophet will be ashamed of his visions. He will no longer wear a prophet's rough clothes to pretend that he is a prophet." 
Zechariah13:5 Instead, he will say, “Do not think that I am a prophet. No, I am a farmer. From the time that I was a boy, I have always worked on the land.”" 
Zechariah13:6 People may ask him, “What caused those wounds on your body?” He will tell them, “I received those wounds when I was at the house of my friends.” ’" 
Zechariah13:7 The Lord Almighty says, ‘Wake up, my sword! Attack my shepherd, the man who is near to me. Kill the shepherd and the sheep will run away. I will attack the little sheep.’" 
Zechariah13:8 The Lord says, ‘In the whole land, only one third of the people will remain alive. Two-thirds of the people will die." 
Zechariah13:9 I will use fire to test those people who remain. I will make them pure, as men use fire to make gold and silver pure. They will call to me for help and I will answer them. I will say, “These are my people.” They will say, “The Lord is our God.” ’" 
Zechariah14:1 Listen! A day will soon come when the Lord will judge people. At that time, Jerusalem's enemies will take your valuable things. They will share your things among themselves as you watch." 
Zechariah14:2 I will bring all the other nations together to attack Jerusalem. They will take the city for themselves. They will rob the houses. They will take hold of the women to have sex with them. They will take half the people away to other countries as their prisoners. They will allow the other people to remain in Jerusalem. 
Zechariah14:3 Then the Lord will prepare for battle. He will fight against the people of those nations, as he has fought battles in past times." 
Zechariah14:4 On that day, the Lord 's feet will stand on the Mount of Olives that is on the east side of Jerusalem. The Mount of Olives will break in two pieces. Half of the mountain will move north and half of the mountain will move south. There will be a great valley in the middle that goes from east to west." 
Zechariah14:5 The valley will reach as far as Azel. You will escape through the valley in the middle of the mountains. It will be like the time of the earthquake when your ancestors escaped. That happened when Uzziah was king of Judah. Then the Lord my God will appear. He will bring his holy angels with him. 
Zechariah14:6 On that day, there will be no light, as the sun will not shine in the day." 
Zechariah14:7 It will happen in one special day, a day that only the Lord knows. There will not be a normal day and a night. Instead there will be light at evening time." 
Zechariah14:8 On that day, fresh water will pour out from Jerusalem. Half of this water will go towards the sea in the east. Half of it will go towards the sea in the west. This will happen during both summer and winter." 
Zechariah14:9 The Lord will then be king to rule over all the earth. On that day, there will be only one Lord. Everyone will know him by that one name." 
Zechariah14:10 All the land will change. From Geba to Rimmon, south of Jerusalem, the land will become flat. But Jerusalem itself will rise up high above the land around it. It will remain in its own place, from the Benjamin Gate to the First Gate and on to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananel as far as the royal winepresses." 
Zechariah14:11 People will make their homes in the city. They will never be afraid of God's punishment again. Jerusalem will be a safe place to live. 
Zechariah14:12 But the Lord will punish the all nations that fought against Jerusalem. He will cause them to become very ill. Even as the people stand on their feet, their bodies will become weak and useless. Their eyes will become useless in their heads. Their tongues will become useless in their mouths." 
Zechariah14:13 On that day, the Lord will cause them to be afraid and confused. They will take hold of each other and fight against each other." 
Zechariah14:14 Judah's people will also go to Jerusalem to fight there. They will take for themselves the valuable things of all the nations around them. They will take gold and silver and lots of beautiful clothes. 
Zechariah14:15 The animals that belong to those other nations will also become ill, like their people. Their horses, their mules, their camels, their donkeys and all their other animals will be very ill in the places where they have their camps." 
Zechariah14:16 After that, the people who are still alive from the nations that attacked Jerusalem will return there. They will go to Jerusalem each year during the Festival of Huts. They will go to worship the King, the Lord Almighty." 
Zechariah14:17 If the people of any nation on the earth refuse to go to Jerusalem, their land will have no rain. They must go there to worship the King, the Lord Almighty." 
Zechariah14:18 If the Egyptian people refuse to go, their land will have no rain. Instead, the Lord will cause them to become very ill. That is how he will punish the people of any nation who refuse to go to Jerusalem for the Festival of Huts." 
Zechariah14:19 They must all go to worship the Lord during the Festival of Huts. The Egyptian people and the people of all the other nations will receive the same punishment if they do not do this. 
Zechariah14:20 On that day, the words, ‘Holy for the Lord ’ will be written on the bells of the horses. All the pots in the Lord 's temple will be as holy as the bowls in front of the altar." 
Zechariah14:21 All the pots in Jerusalem and in the whole of Judah will be holy things for the Lord Almighty. The people who come to offer sacrifices may use any of the pots to cook the meat for their sacrifices. On that day, there will no longer be any traders who buy and sell things in the temple of the Lord Almighty." 
Malachi1:1 This is the message that the Lord spoke to Malachi. Malachi knew that he must tell this message to the Israelites. 
Malachi1:2 The Lord says, ‘I have loved you.’ But you ask, ‘How have you loved us?’ The Lord says, ‘I chose to love Jacob and his descendants. Esau was Jacob's brother." 
Malachi1:3 But I have not loved Esau and his descendants. Instead, I have caused trouble for Esau. I caused Esau's mountains to become a wilderness. Nobody uses that land any longer. Now there are only jackals in the land that belongs to Esau.’" 
Malachi1:4 Esau's descendants in Edom may say, ‘They have destroyed our towns, but we will build our houses again.’ But the Lord Almighty says, ‘They may build again, but I will knock everything down. People will call Edom, “The Evil Land”. They will call them, “The nation that the Lord is angry with for ever”." 
Malachi1:5 You will see with your own eyes what I will do to them. Then you will say, “The Lord has great power, even beyond Israel's borders.” ’" 
Malachi1:6 The Lord Almighty says this to the priests: ‘A son respects his father. A servant respects his master. If I am really your father and your master, why do you not respect me? You are my priests, but you insult my name. But then you ask, “What have we done to insult your name?”" 
Malachi1:7 You insult my name when you offer unclean sacrifices to me on my altar. But you ask, “How have we offered unclean sacrifices to you?” You have shown that you do not respect the Lord 's altar as important." 
Malachi1:8 You offer blind animals as a sacrifice to me. You know that is wrong. You offer to me animals that cannot walk or animals that are ill. That is also a wrong thing to do. You would not give gifts like that to your city's ruler. If you did, he would surely not accept them. He would not be happy with your gifts.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Malachi1:9 ‘Now you ask me to be kind to you. You want me to forgive you. But when you offer unclean animals as gifts to me, I will not be happy with your gifts.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Malachi1:10 ‘It would be better if one of you shut the temple doors! Then you would not be able to offer useless sacrifices on my altar. I am not happy with you. I will not accept any more gifts from you.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Malachi1:11 ‘People in every nation of the whole world will respect my name. People everywhere will offer incense and pure sacrifices to worship me. They will all know that I am great.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Malachi1:12 ‘But you priests insult my name. You say that the Lord's altar is not special. You think that the food which you offer to me has no value. 
Malachi1:13 You also say, “It is too much trouble to serve the Lord.” You think that you are too important to serve me.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. ‘You offer to me animals that cannot walk or that are ill. You have even robbed other people to get some of these animals. Do you think that I will accept these unclean animals from you? Will I be happy with them?’ That is what the Lord says." 
Malachi1:14 ‘You may promise to offer to me a valuable male animal from among your sheep. But then you change your mind. Instead, you offer to me an animal that has no value. I will surely punish you when you cheat me like that. Remember that I am a great king. People of all nations in the world respect my name with fear.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Malachi2:1 The Lord Almighty says this to the priests: 
Malachi2:2 ‘Listen carefully to what I say to you. You must respect my name properly. If not, I will punish you. I will no longer bless you but I will curse you. I am already doing that because you do not respect my name as you should." 
Malachi2:3 I will punish your descendants. When you offer an animal as a sacrifice at your festivals, I will cover your faces with its dirty bits. Then they will throw you away with all the other dirty bits. Those are the bits that I cannot accept as clean.’" 
Malachi2:4 The Lord Almighty says, ‘When I punish you like that, you will know that I have warned you. Then the covenant that I made with Levi and his descendants, the priests, can continue." 
Malachi2:5 I promised to give them a good life with many blessings. Levi received what I promised to him. He served me and he respected me, as a priest should do." 
Malachi2:6 He taught my true message. He did not teach people anything that was bad. He lived in a good and honest way as he served me. He helped many people to stop doing wrong things. 
Malachi2:7 Priests should help people to know the truth about God. People should ask the priests to teach them, because the Lord Almighty has chosen priests to speak his message." 
Malachi2:8 But you priests do not serve me in the right way. What you teach causes many people to do wrong things. In that way, you have spoiled the covenant that I made with Levi.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Malachi2:9 ‘So I have caused all the people to insult you. They no longer respect you, because you do not obey my rules. When you teach my people, you are kind to some of them but you cheat others.’" 
Malachi2:10 You know that we all have one Father. It is God himself who made all of us. But now we turn against each other. We do not respect the covenant that God made with our ancestors. 
Malachi2:11 Judah's people have turned against God. As a result, people have done disgusting things in Jerusalem and in all Israel. You have spoiled the holy place, the temple that the Lord loves. You have turned away from the Lord and you worship foreign gods." 
Malachi2:12 I pray that the Lord will remove all people like that from among his people. Not one of them will continue to belong to the family of Jacob. They will no longer be able to offer gifts to the Lord Almighty. 
Malachi2:13 Also, you weep so much that your tears cover the Lord 's altar! You cry because the Lord no longer accepts your gifts. He is not happy with the gifts that you offer to him." 
Malachi2:14 You ask, ‘Why is the Lord not happy with our gifts?’ The Lord knows that you men have not done the right thing with your wives. When you married as a young man, you promised to take care of your wife always. But you have sent her away, when the Law says that you must stay with her as your wife." 
Malachi2:15 The Lord has joined you together, as a man with his wife. Your body and your spirit belong to him. Why did God put you together? He wanted you to have children who would belong to him. So think carefully about how you live. Do not leave the wife that you married when you were a young man." 
Malachi2:16 The Lord God of Israel says this: ‘If a man sends his wife away from him, I hate that! He has been cruel to his wife when he should take care of her. So be very careful! Remember your promise to take care of your wife.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Malachi2:17 The Lord has become tired as he listens to your words. You ask, ‘Why is he tired? What have we done to cause that?’ You say, ‘The Lord thinks that all people who do evil things are good! He does not punish them but he is happy with them.’ You also say, ‘God is not here to bring justice!’" 
Malachi3:1 The Lord Almighty says, ‘Look! I will send someone to speak my message. He will prepare the way before me. Then the Lord that you are waiting for will quickly return to his temple. The one who brings the message about my covenant will certainly come. He is the one that you really want to see." 
Malachi3:2 But when he comes, he will be like a hot fire that makes metal pure. He will be like strong soap that makes clothes completely clean. Nobody will be able to stand in front of him when he appears. On that day, nobody will remain the same." 
Malachi3:3 He will work like a man who uses a hot fire to make gold and silver pure. He will make the Levites clean and pure. He will remove their dirt. Then they can offer proper sacrifices to the Lord. 
Malachi3:4 The Lord will accept the gifts that the people of Judah and Jerusalem offer to him. He will be happy with them as he was in earlier times. 
Malachi3:5 At that time, I will come among you as your judge. I will speak against those who have done wrong things. I will punish the magicians, the adulterers and those who tell lies against other people. I will punish those people who are cruel to their workers and those who deceive widows or children who have no family. And I will punish those who do not help foreigners who live among them. People who do those things show that they do not respect me.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Malachi3:6 ‘I am the Lord and I do not change. Because of my promises to my people, I have not destroyed you, descendants of Jacob." 
Malachi3:7 I have told you my commands. But you do not listen to me any longer. Since the time of your ancestors, you have not obeyed me. Now, return to me! Then I will return to bless you.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. ‘But you ask, “How do we return to you?”" 
Malachi3:8 I say to you, “A man should not rob God. But you are robbing me.” But you ask, “How do we rob you?” I say, “You do not give to me the tithes and the offerings that you should give.”" 
Malachi3:9 Yes, all of you are robbing me. The whole nation is guilty. So you will receive the punishment of a curse." 
Malachi3:10 Now you must bring the whole tithe that belongs to me. Store it in my temple, so that there will be food in my house. Obey me and then see what I will do.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. ‘You will see how much I will bless you! You will not have enough room to store all the good things that I will give to you. I will pour blessings out of the sky like rain." 
Malachi3:11 I will stop insects from eating your crops. The grapes will not fall from your vines before they are ready to eat. 
Malachi3:12 You will be happy to live in your land. The people of all the other nations will see that God has blessed you.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Malachi3:13 The Lord says, ‘You have spoken bad words against me. But you ask, “What have we said against you?”" 
Malachi3:14 You have said, “We serve God, but that has not helped us at all. We are careful to do what he tells us to do. When we do wrong things, we have sad faces to show the Lord Almighty that we are sorry." 
Malachi3:15 But it is proud people that God blesses! Yes, it is the people who do evil things who become rich! God does not even punish people who like to test him. That is what we think.” ’" 
Malachi3:16 Then the people who respected the Lord talked to each other. The Lord listened to what they said. While the Lord watched, someone wrote names on a scroll. Those were the names of the people who respected the Lord and who gave honour to his name. They wrote down their names so that people would remember them." 
Malachi3:17 The Lord Almighty says, ‘These people will belong to me. One day I will come to judge everyone. At that time I will bring together all my own special people. I will not punish them. I will take care of them, like a father takes care of his son who serves him." 
Malachi3:18 Because of that, you will see again that I am kind to righteous people, but I punish wicked people. I show the difference between people who serve me faithfully and those who do not.’" 
Malachi4:1 ‘The great day when I come to judge people will certainly happen. Punishment will come like the great fire of a hot oven. It will destroy all the proud people who do evil things. It will completely destroy them, like a fire that destroys dry grass. Nothing will remain.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says." 
Malachi4:2 ‘But it will be different for you who respect my name. On that day, I will come to make you well again, like the sun that rises to shine on you. I will show that you are right. When that happens, you will be very happy. You will jump up and down like young cows when someone lets them go free." 
Malachi4:3 Then you will walk over the wicked people. They will be like ashes under your feet. That will happen on the day when I do these things.’ That is what the Lord Almighty says. 
Malachi4:4 ‘Remember the laws that I gave to my servant Moses at Mount Sinai. Those rules and commands were for all the Israelites to obey. 
Malachi4:5 Look! I will send my prophet Elijah to you. He will come before that great day of the arrives. That will be a day that makes people afraid. 
Malachi4:6 He will speak my message, so that fathers and their children return to each other as friends. Then I will not have to come and bring punishment on the land.’" 
Matthew1:5 Salmon was the father of Boaz. Rahab was his mother. Boaz was the father of Obed. Ruth was his mother. Obed was the father of Jesse. 
Matthew2:17 In this way, these words that God's prophet Jeremiah spoke long ago became true:" 
Matthew3:3 God's prophet Isaiah spoke about this man John long ago. He said: ‘Somebody's voice is shouting in the wilderness, “The Lord will come soon, so prepare a way for him. Make the paths straight for him.” ’" 
Matthew4:14 This caused God's message to become true. Long ago God had said through his prophet Isaiah: 
Matthew8:17 Jesus did this so that the words of the prophet Isaiah would become true: ‘He took away everything that makes us weak. He carried away our diseases.’ 
Matthew12:17 This has made what the prophet Isaiah spoke long ago become true. Isaiah wrote what God said: 
Matthew12:39 Jesus replied, ‘The people who are alive today are very wicked. They do not obey God, but they want God to show them something powerful. But God will not do this for them. They will only see the same powerful thing that God did for his prophet Jonah." 
Matthew12:40 Jonah stayed inside a big fish for three days and three nights. In the same way, the Son of Man will remain in the ground for three days and three nights." 
Matthew12:41 When God judges everyone, the people who lived in Nineveh will be there. They will stand up and they will speak against you. They will show that the people who are alive today are bad. When Jonah spoke to the people in Nineveh long ago, they stopped doing bad things. But look! There is someone here now who is greater than Jonah was." 
Matthew13:14 Long ago, the prophet Isaiah spoke a message from God about those people. Now it has become true. God said: “You will listen and listen, but you will not understand. You will look and look, but you will not see anything." 
Matthew15:7 You are hypocrites! What God's prophet Isaiah wrote about you long ago is true: 
Matthew16:4 The people who are alive today are very wicked. They do not obey God. They want God to show them something powerful. But God will not do this for them. They will only see the same powerful thing that God did for Jonah.’ Then Jesus went away and left them. 
Matthew16:14 They replied, ‘Some people say that you are John the Baptist. Other people say that you are Elijah. And some other people say that you are Jeremiah, or another prophet of God.’" 
Matthew16:17 Jesus said to Simon Peter, ‘Simon, son of Jonah, God has blessed you! No person on earth taught you this. God, my Father in heaven, has shown you this." 
Matthew23:35 Because of all this, God will punish you for all the good people that you and your ancestors have killed. Long ago, Abel was the first of those good people. You also killed Zechariah, the son of Berekiah. He died in the yard of the temple near the altar." 
Matthew24:15 Long ago, God's prophet Daniel wrote in the Bible about something that would happen. He said that one day people would put a disgusting thing that causes trouble in the temple. You will see it in the holy place. (When you read this, you must understand what it means.)" 
Matthew27:9 So the words that the prophet Jeremiah wrote long ago now became true. He had said, ‘Then they took the 30 silver coins. It was the amount of money the people of Israel had agreed to pay for the man." 
Mark1:2 The prophet Isaiah wrote this message from God in his book: ‘Listen! I will send someone to prepare a way for you. He will tell people my message. 
Mark7:6 Jesus said to them, ‘You are hypocrites! What God's prophet Isaiah wrote about you long ago is true: God says, “These people say good things about me, but they do not really want to obey me." 
Luke1:5 There was a man whose name was Zechariah. He lived when Herod was king of Judea. Zechariah was a priest and he belonged to a group of priests from the family of Abijah. He had a wife called Elizabeth. She also was a descendant of Aaron. 
Luke1:6 Zechariah and Elizabeth obeyed all God's commands and rules. God saw that they did what was right. They did not do wrong things. 
Luke1:8 One day, Zechariah's group of priests was working at the temple. He had a special job to do there." 
Luke1:9 The priests used lots to choose one of their group to go into the holy place in the temple. This time they chose Zechariah. His job was to burn incense there. 
Luke1:10 While Zechariah was burning the incense, many people were outside in the yard. They were praying to God." 
Luke1:11 Then an angel of the Lord appeared to Zechariah. The angel was standing at the right side of the incense altar. 
Luke1:12 When Zechariah saw the angel, he was very surprised and very afraid." 
Luke1:13 The angel said to him, ‘Zechariah, do not be afraid. God has heard what you prayed. He will give you what you asked for. Your wife Elizabeth will give birth to a baby boy. You will give him the name “John”." 
Luke1:18 Zechariah asked the angel, ‘How can I be sure about this? You know that I am an old man. My wife is also old.’" 
Luke1:21 While this was happening, the people outside were waiting for Zechariah. They were thinking, ‘Why has Zechariah stayed for such a long time in the holy place? Why has he not come out yet?’" 
Luke1:22 When Zechariah did come out, he tried to talk to them. But he could not speak. So they knew that God had showed him something special in the holy place. Zechariah was moving his head and his hands about, to tell them what had happened. But still he could not speak." 
Luke1:23 When Zechariah had finished his work in the temple, he returned home." 
Luke1:40 When she arrived at the home of Zechariah, she said ‘hello’ to Elizabeth." 
Luke1:59 When the child was eight days old, people met together to circumcise him. They wanted to call the child Zechariah. This was the same name that his father had." 
Luke1:63 Zechariah asked for something to write on. He wrote, ‘His name is John.’ Everyone was very surprised at what he wrote." 
Luke1:64 Immediately, Zechariah could speak again. He could speak easily. He began to praise God." 
Luke1:65 The people who lived near Zechariah and Elizabeth were all very surprised. They saw how great God was. Many people who lived in the hills of Judea also talked about all these things. 
Luke1:67 The Holy Spirit filled John's father, Zechariah, so that he spoke God's message:" 
Luke1:76 Zechariah then spoke to his son, John: ‘You, my child, will be called a prophet of the Most High God. You will go in front of the Lord to prepare a way for him." 
Luke1:80 Zechariah's child grew. God made him strong in his mind. He went into the wilderness and he lived there for many years. Later, God sent him to Israel's people, to teach them." 
Luke3:1 This report is about John, the son of Zechariah. It happened when Tiberius Caesar had been the Roman ruler for 15 years. Pontius Pilate was the Roman ruler of Judea. Herod had authority over the region of Galilee. Herod's brother Philip had authority over Iturea and Trachonitis. Lysanias had authority over Abilene." 
Luke3:4 The prophet Isaiah wrote this message from God in his book: ‘Somebody's voice is shouting in the wilderness, “The Lord will come soon, so prepare a way for him. Make the paths straight for him." 
Luke3:25 Joseph was from the family of Mattathias. Mattathias was from the family of Amos. Amos was from the family of Nahum. Nahum was from the family of Esli. Esli was from the family of Naggai. 
Luke3:25 Joseph was from the family of Mattathias. Mattathias was from the family of Amos. Amos was from the family of Nahum. Nahum was from the family of Esli. Esli was from the family of Naggai. 
Luke3:29 Er was from the family of Joshua. Joshua was from the family of Eliezer. Eliezer was from the family of Jorim. Jorim was from the family of Matthat. Matthat was from the family of Levi. 
Luke4:17 They gave him the scroll that had the messages of God's prophet Isaiah. Jesus opened the scroll. He found the place where Isaiah wrote: 
Luke11:29 The crowd around Jesus was growing very large, so he began to speak to them. He said, ‘The people who are alive today are very wicked. They want God to show them something powerful. But God will not do this for them. They will only see the same powerful thing that God did for Jonah." 
Luke11:30 Jonah showed God's power to the people who lived in Nineveh. They knew that God had sent him. In the same way the Son of Man will show God's power to the people that are living today. Then they will know that God has sent me. 
Luke11:32 When God judges everyone, the people who lived in Nineveh will be there. They will stand up and they will speak against you. They will show that the people who are alive today are bad. When Jonah spoke to the people in Nineveh long ago, they stopped doing bad things. But look! There is someone here now who is greater than Jonah was.’" 
Luke11:51 Abel was the first to die like this and Zechariah was the last. They even killed Zechariah in the yard of the temple, near the altar. Yes, God will punish the people who are alive today for all those murders." 
Luke20:42 David himself said this in the book of Psalms: “The Lord God said to my Lord, Sit at my right side until I win against your enemies." 
Luke24:44 Then he said to them, ‘I told you about these things while I was still with you. Everything that God's servants wrote about me in the Bible had to happen. Moses wrote about me in his book of God's Law. The prophets also wrote about me. The book of Psalms also speaks about me. And now it has become true.’" 
John1:23 He said, ‘I am the voice of somebody shouting in the wilderness: “The Lord will come soon. Make a straight path for him.” That is what the prophet Isaiah said a long time ago.’" 
John12:38 This showed that the prophet Isaiah had spoken true words when he said: ‘ Lord God, has anyone believed our message? You have shown your great power, but nobody has really understood.’" 
John12:39 Isaiah spoke also about why the people could not believe. 
John12:41 Long ago, Isaiah saw the great glory of Christ. That is why he said these things. He was speaking about Jesus." 
Acts1:20 Peter then said, ‘This is what King David wrote in the book of Psalms: “Let the house that he lived in become empty, so that nobody lives in it.” David also wrote: “Let somebody else do the job which he did.” ’" 
Acts2:16 No, something different is happening here. Long ago, the prophet Joel spoke God's message about all this. This is what he said:" 
Acts7:45 Later, our ancestors received that special tent for themselves. They brought it with them when they came with Joshua to live in this land. They took the land from the people who were living here. God chased out those people so that our ancestors could live there. The tent remained in this place until David became the king of Israel." 
Acts7:48 But we know that God does not live in a house that people have made. He is the powerful God who is over all. God's prophet Isaiah spoke these words: 
Acts8:28 Now the man was travelling home again in his chariot. He was reading something from the book that God's prophet Isaiah wrote. 
Acts8:30 So Philip ran to the chariot as it went along. The officer was reading aloud from the prophet Isaiah's book and Philip heard him. So Philip asked the man, ‘Do you understand the things that you are reading about?’" 
Acts8:32 The officer was reading these words from the book of Isaiah: ‘He was like a sheep that people were leading away to kill. He was like a lamb when they are cutting off its wool, but it makes no noise. In the same way, he did not say anything." 
Acts8:34 The officer said to Philip, ‘Please tell me who the prophet Isaiah wrote about. Was he writing about himself or about another person?’" 
Acts8:35 Then Philip explained to the man the words that Isaiah had written. Then he went on to tell him the good news about Jesus. 
Acts28:25 So they argued with each other about Paul's message. When they began to leave the house, Paul said, ‘The Holy Spirit spoke a true message to your ancestors. He gave this message to Isaiah, the prophet:" 
Romans9:25 God says this in the book of Hosea: ‘I will say to people who were not my people, “Now you are my people.” I will say to people that I did not love, “I love you.” ’" 
Romans9:27 Also, Isaiah, God's prophet, said this about Israel's people: ‘There are so many of Israel's people, nobody can count them. They are as many as the bits of sand on the shore of the sea. But God will save only a few of them." 
Romans9:29 Isaiah had already said this: ‘The Almighty Lord has let some of our children live. If he had not done that, no descendants would remain. We would have become like the people in Sodom and Gomorrah.’" 
Romans10:16 But not everyone who has heard the good news obeys its message. Isaiah said, ‘Lord God, it seems that nobody has believed our message.’" 
Romans10:20 Also, this is what Isaiah said very bravely: ‘God says, “Those people who were not looking for me have found me. I showed myself to people who were not even asking about me.” ’" 
Romans10:21 But Isaiah says this about Israel's people: ‘God says, “For a very long time, I have been asking my people to return to me. But they refused to obey me. They turned against me.” ’" 
Romans15:12 God's prophet Isaiah says this: ‘The root of Jesse will arrive. He will come to rule the Gentiles. The Gentiles will trust him to save them.’ 
Hebrews4:8 This shows that Joshua did not bring God's people to the place where they could rest. Later, God had to speak again about another day of rest." 
James5:11 We know that God blessed people who were like that. They continued to trust God when trouble happened to them. You have heard about Job. He waited patiently for God to help him in his troubles. You know how the Lord helped him in the end. Because of that, we see that the Lord God is very kind and he helps us." 
