Genesis1:1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. 
Genesis1:2 And the earth was formless and void, and darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the surface of the waters." 
Genesis1:3 Then God said, “Let there be light”; and there was light." 
Genesis1:4 And God saw that the light was good; and God separated the light from the darkness. 
Genesis1:5 And God called the light day, and the darkness He called night. And there was evening and there was morning, one day." 
Genesis1:6 Then God said, “Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters.”" 
Genesis1:7 So God made the expanse and separated the waters which were below the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse; and it was so. 
Genesis1:8 And God called the expanse heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, a second day." 
Genesis1:9 Then God said, “Let the waters below the heavens be gathered into one place, and let the dry land appear”; and it was so." 
Genesis1:10 And God called the dry land earth, and the gathering of the waters He called seas; and God saw that it was good." 
Genesis1:11 Then God said, “Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees on the earth bearing fruit after their kind with seed in them”; and it was so." 
Genesis1:12 And the earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed after their kind, and trees bearing fruit with seed in them, after their kind; and God saw that it was good." 
Genesis1:13 And there was evening and there was morning, a third day." 
Genesis1:14 Then God said, “Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night, and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years;" 
Genesis1:15 and let them be for lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth”; and it was so. 
Genesis1:16 So God made the two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night, and also the stars." 
Genesis1:17 And God placed them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth," 
Genesis1:18 and to rule the day and the night, and to separate the light from the darkness; and God saw that it was good." 
Genesis1:19 And there was evening and there was morning, a fourth day." 
Genesis1:20 Then God said, “Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the face of the expanse of the heavens.”" 
Genesis1:21 And God created the great sea monsters and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarmed after their kind, and every winged bird after its kind; and God saw that it was good." 
Genesis1:22 Then God blessed them, saying, “Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let the birds multiply on the earth.”" 
Genesis1:23 And there was evening and there was morning, a fifth day." 
Genesis1:24 Then God said, “Let the earth bring forth living creatures after their kind: cattle and creeping things and beasts of the earth after their kind”; and it was so." 
Genesis1:25 God made the beasts of the earth after their kind, and the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing of the ground after its kind; and God saw that it was good." 
Genesis1:26 Then God said, “Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness, so that they will have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.”" 
Genesis1:27 And God created man in His own image, in the image of God He created him; male and female He created them." 
Genesis1:28 God blessed them, and God said to them, “Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over every living thing that creeps on the earth.”" 
Genesis1:29 Then God said, “Behold, I have given to you every plant yielding seed that is on the surface of all the earth, and every tree which has the fruit of the tree yielding seed; it shall be food for you;" 
Genesis1:30 and to every beast of the earth and to every bird of the sky and to every thing that creeps on the earth which has life, I have given every green plant for food”; and it was so." 
Genesis1:31 And God saw all that He had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day." 
Genesis2:1 Thus the heavens and the earth were completed, and all their hosts." 
Genesis2:2 And on the seventh day God completed His work which He had done, and He rested on the seventh day from all His work which He had done." 
Genesis2:3 Then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because on it He rested from all His work which God had created in making it." 
Genesis2:4 These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that Yahweh God made earth and heaven." 
Genesis2:5 Now no shrub of the field was yet in the earth, and no plant of the field had yet grown, for Yahweh God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was no man to cultivate the ground." 
Genesis2:6 But a stream would rise from the earth and water the whole surface of the ground. 
Genesis2:7 Then Yahweh God formed man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and so the man became a living being. 
Genesis2:8 And Yahweh God planted a garden in Eden, toward the east; and there He placed the man whom He had formed." 
Genesis2:9 And out of the ground Yahweh God caused to grow every tree that is desirable in appearance and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil." 
Genesis2:10 Now a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from there it divided and became four rivers. 
Genesis2:11 The name of the first is Pishon; it is the one that went around the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold." 
Genesis2:12 Now the gold of that land is good; the bdellium and the onyx stone are there. 
Genesis2:13 And the name of the second river is Gihon; it is the one that went around the whole land of Cush. 
Genesis2:14 And the name of the third river is Tigris; it is the one that went east of Asshur. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. 
Genesis2:15 Then Yahweh God took the man and set him in the garden of Eden to cultivate it and keep it. 
Genesis2:16 And Yahweh God commanded the man, saying, “From any tree of the garden you may surely eat;" 
Genesis2:17 but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat from it; for in the day that you eat from it you will surely die.”" 
Genesis2:18 Then Yahweh God said, “It is not good for the man to be alone; I will make him a helper suitable for him.”" 
Genesis2:19 And out of the ground Yahweh God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the sky, and He brought each to the man to see what he would call it; and whatever the man called a living creature, that was its name." 
Genesis2:20 And the man gave names to all the cattle and to the birds of the sky and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found a helper suitable for him. 
Genesis2:21 So Yahweh God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept; then He took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh at that place." 
Genesis2:22 And Yahweh God fashioned the rib, which He had taken from the man, into a woman, and He brought her to the man." 
Genesis2:23 Then the man said, “This one finally is bone of my bones, And flesh of my flesh; This one shall be called Woman, Because this one was taken out of Man.”" 
Genesis2:24 Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and cleave to his wife; and they shall become one flesh." 
Genesis2:25 And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. 
Genesis3:1 Now the serpent was more crafty than any beast of the field which Yahweh God had made. And he said to the woman, “Indeed, has God said, ‘You shall not eat from any tree of the garden’?”" 
Genesis3:2 And the woman said to the serpent, “From the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat;" 
Genesis3:3 but from the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God said, ‘You shall not eat from it, and you shall not touch it, lest you die.’”" 
Genesis3:4 And the serpent said to the woman, “You surely will not die!" 
Genesis3:5 For God knows that in the day you eat from it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.”" 
Genesis3:6 Then the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, so she took from its fruit and ate; and she gave also to her husband with her, and he ate." 
Genesis3:7 And the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loin coverings." 
Genesis3:8 Then they heard the sound of Yahweh God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of Yahweh God in the midst of the trees of the garden." 
Genesis3:9 Yahweh God called to the man and said to him, “Where are you?”" 
Genesis3:10 And he said, “I heard the sound of You in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked; so I hid.”" 
Genesis3:11 And He said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?”" 
Genesis3:12 And the man said, “The woman whom You gave to be with me, she gave to me from the tree, and I ate.”" 
Genesis3:13 Then Yahweh God said to the woman, “What is this you have done?” And the woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”" 
Genesis3:14 And Yahweh God said to the serpent, “Because you have done this, Cursed are you more than any of the cattle, And more than every beast of the field; On your belly you will go, And dust you will eat All the days of your life;" 
Genesis3:15 And I will put enmity Between you and the woman, And between your seed and her seed; He shall bruise you on the head, And you shall bruise him on the heel.”" 
Genesis3:16 To the woman He said, “I will greatly multiply Your pain and conception, In pain you will bear children; Your desire will be for your husband, And he will rule over you.”" 
Genesis3:17 Then to Adam He said, “Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten from the tree about which I commanded you, saying, ‘You shall not eat from it’; Cursed is the ground because of you; In pain you will eat of it All the days of your life." 
Genesis3:18 Both thorns and thistles it shall grow for you; And you will eat the plants of the field; 
Genesis3:19 By the sweat of your face You will eat bread, Till you return to the ground, Because from it you were taken; For you are dust, And to dust you shall return.”" 
Genesis3:20 Now the man called his wife’s name Eve, because she was the mother of all the living." 
Genesis3:21 Then Yahweh God made garments of skin for Adam and his wife, and He clothed them." 
Genesis3:22 Then Yahweh God said, “Behold, the man has become like one of Us to know good and evil; and now, lest he send forth his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat and live forever”—" 
Genesis3:23 therefore Yahweh God sent him out from the garden of Eden, to cultivate the ground from which he was taken." 
Genesis3:24 So He drove the man out; and at the east of the garden of Eden He stationed the cherubim and the flaming sword which turned every direction to guard the way to the tree of life. 
Genesis4:1 Now the man knew his wife Eve, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain, and she said, “I have gotten a man with the help of Yahweh.”" 
Genesis4:2 And again, she gave birth to his brother Abel. Abel was a keeper of flocks, but Cain was a cultivator of the ground." 
Genesis4:3 So it happened in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to Yahweh of the fruit of the ground. 
Genesis4:4 Abel, on his part, also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat portions. And Yahweh had regard for Abel and for his offering;" 
Genesis4:5 but for Cain and for his offering He had no regard. So Cain became very angry, and his countenance fell." 
Genesis4:6 Then Yahweh said to Cain, “Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen?" 
Genesis4:7 If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is lying at the door; and its desire is for you, but you must rule over it.”" 
Genesis4:8 Then Cain spoke to Abel his brother; and it happened when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him." 
Genesis4:9 Then Yahweh said to Cain, “Where is Abel your brother?” And he said, “I do not know. Am I my brother’s keeper?”" 
Genesis4:10 And He said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother’s blood is crying out to Me from the ground." 
Genesis4:11 And now, cursed are you from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand." 
Genesis4:12 When you cultivate the ground, it will no longer yield its strength to you; you will be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth.”" 
Genesis4:13 And Cain said to Yahweh, “My punishment is too great to bear!" 
Genesis4:14 Behold, You have driven me this day from the face of the ground; and from Your face I will be hidden, and I will be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth, and it will be that whoever finds me will kill me.”" 
Genesis4:15 So Yahweh said to him, “Therefore whoever kills Cain, vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold.” And Yahweh appointed a sign for Cain, so that no one who found him would strike him." 
Genesis4:16 Then Cain went out from the presence of Yahweh and settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden." 
Genesis4:17 Then Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to Enoch; and he built a city and called the name of the city Enoch, after the name of his son." 
Genesis4:18 Now to Enoch was born Irad, and Irad was the father of Mehujael, and Mehujael was the father of Methushael, and Methushael was the father of Lamech." 
Genesis4:19 And Lamech took for himself two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other, Zillah." 
Genesis4:20 And Adah gave birth to Jabal; he was the father of those who live in tents and have livestock. 
Genesis4:21 And his brother’s name was Jubal; he was the father of all those who play the lyre and pipe. 
Genesis4:22 As for Zillah, she also gave birth to Tubal-cain, the forger of all implements of bronze and iron; and the sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah." 
Genesis4:23 And Lamech said to his wives, “Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice, You wives of Lamech, Give ear to my word, For I have killed a man for striking me; And a boy for wounding me;" 
Genesis4:24 If Cain is avenged sevenfold, Then Lamech seventy‑sevenfold.”" 
Genesis4:25 Then Adam knew his wife again; and she gave birth to a son and named him Seth, for she said, “God has set for me another seed in place of Abel, for Cain killed him.”" 
Genesis4:26 And to Seth, to him also, a son was born; and he called his name Enosh. Then men began to call upon the name of Yahweh." 
Genesis5:1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day when God created man, He made him in the likeness of God." 
Genesis5:2 He created them male and female, and He blessed them and named them Man in the day when they were created." 
Genesis5:3 When Adam had lived 130 years, he became the father of a son in his own likeness, according to his image, and named him Seth." 
Genesis5:4 Then the days of Adam after he became the father of Seth were 800 years, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:5 So all the days that Adam lived were 930 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:6 And Seth lived 105 years and became the father of Enosh. 
Genesis5:7 Then Seth lived 807 years after he became the father of Enosh, and he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:8 So all the days of Seth were 912 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:9 And Enosh lived 90 years and became the father of Kenan. 
Genesis5:10 Then Enosh lived 815 years after he became the father of Kenan, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:11 So all the days of Enosh were 905 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:12 And Kenan lived 70 years and became the father of Mahalalel. 
Genesis5:13 Then Kenan lived 840 years after he became the father of Mahalalel, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:14 So all the days of Kenan were 910 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:15 And Mahalalel lived 65 years and became the father of Jared. 
Genesis5:16 Then Mahalalel lived 830 years after he became the father of Jared, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:17 So all the days of Mahalalel were 895 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:18 And Jared lived 162 years and became the father of Enoch. 
Genesis5:19 Then Jared lived 800 years after he became the father of Enoch, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:20 So all the days of Jared were 962 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:21 And Enoch lived 65 years and became the father of Methuselah. 
Genesis5:22 Then Enoch walked with God 300 years after he became the father of Methuselah, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:23 So all the days of Enoch were 365 years. 
Genesis5:24 Enoch walked with God; and he was not, for God took him." 
Genesis5:25 And Methuselah lived 187 years and became the father of Lamech. 
Genesis5:26 Then Methuselah lived 782 years after he became the father of Lamech, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:27 So all the days of Methuselah were 969 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:28 And Lamech lived 182 years and became the father of a son. 
Genesis5:29 Now he called his name Noah, saying, “This one will give us rest from our work and from the pain of our hands arising from the ground which Yahweh has cursed.”" 
Genesis5:30 Then Lamech lived 595 years after he became the father of Noah, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:31 So all the days of Lamech were 777 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:32 And Noah was 500 years old, and Noah became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth." 
Genesis6:1 Now it happened, when men began to multiply on the face of the land, and daughters were born to them," 
Genesis6:2 that the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were good in appearance; and they took wives for themselves, whomever they chose." 
Genesis6:3 Then Yahweh said, “My Spirit shall not strive with man forever because he indeed is flesh; nevertheless his days shall be 120 years.”" 
Genesis6:4 The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men, and they bore children to them. Those were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown." 
Genesis6:5 Then Yahweh saw that the evil of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually." 
Genesis6:6 And Yahweh regretted that He had made man on the earth, and He was grieved in His heart." 
Genesis6:7 And Yahweh said, “I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, from man to animals to creeping things and to birds of the sky; for I regret that I have made them.”" 
Genesis6:8 But Noah found favor in the eyes of Yahweh. 
Genesis6:9 These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless among those in his generations; Noah walked with God." 
Genesis6:10 And Noah became the father of three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth." 
Genesis6:11 Now the earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence." 
Genesis6:12 And God saw the earth, and behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth." 
Genesis6:13 Then God said to Noah, “The end of all flesh has come before Me; for the earth is filled with violence because of them; and behold, I am about to destroy them with the earth." 
Genesis6:14 Make for yourself an ark of gopher wood; you shall make the ark with rooms, and you shall cover it inside and out with pitch." 
Genesis6:15 Now this is how you shall make it: the length of the ark 300 cubits, its breadth 50 cubits, and its height 30 cubits." 
Genesis6:16 You shall make a window for the ark, and complete it to one cubit from the top; and set the door of the ark in the side of it; you shall make it with lower, second, and third decks." 
Genesis6:17 As for Me, behold I am bringing the flood of water upon the earth, to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life, from under heaven; everything that is on the earth shall breathe its last." 
Genesis6:18 But I will establish My covenant with you; and you shall enter the ark—you and your sons and your wife and your sons’ wives with you. 
Genesis6:19 And of every living thing of all flesh, you shall bring two of every kind into the ark, to keep them alive with you; they shall be male and female." 
Genesis6:20 Of the birds after their kind, and of the animals after their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind, two of every kind will come to you to keep them alive." 
Genesis6:21 As for you, take for yourself some of all food which is edible, and gather it to yourself; and it shall be for food for you and for them.”" 
Genesis6:22 Thus Noah did; according to all that God had commanded him, so he did." 
Genesis7:1 Then Yahweh said to Noah, “Enter the ark, you and all your household, for you alone I have seen to be righteous before Me in this generation." 
Genesis7:2 You shall take with you of every clean animal by sevens, a male and his female; and of the animals that are not clean, two, a male and his female;" 
Genesis7:3 also of the birds of the sky, by sevens, male and female, to keep their seed alive on the face of all the earth." 
Genesis7:4 For after seven more days, I will send rain on the earth forty days and forty nights; and I will blot out from the face of the land every living thing that I have made.”" 
Genesis7:5 And Noah did according to all that Yahweh had commanded him. 
Genesis7:6 Now Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of water came upon the earth. 
Genesis7:7 Then Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons’ wives with him entered the ark because of the water of the flood. 
Genesis7:8 Of clean animals and animals that are not clean and birds and everything that creeps on the ground," 
Genesis7:9 by twos they came to Noah into the ark, male and female, as God had commanded Noah." 
Genesis7:10 Now it happened after the seven days, that the water of the flood came upon the earth." 
Genesis7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on this day all the fountains of the great deep split open, and the floodgates of the sky were opened." 
Genesis7:12 Then the rain came upon the earth for forty days and forty nights. 
Genesis7:13 On this very day Noah and Shem and Ham and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah’s wife and the three wives of his sons with them, entered the ark," 
Genesis7:14 they and every beast after its kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind—every fowl, every winged creature." 
Genesis7:15 So they came to Noah into the ark, by twos of all flesh in which was the breath of life." 
Genesis7:16 And those that entered, male and female of all flesh, entered as God had commanded him; and Yahweh closed it behind him." 
Genesis7:17 Then the flood came upon the earth for forty days, and the water multiplied and lifted up the ark, so that it rose above the earth." 
Genesis7:18 And the water prevailed and multiplied greatly upon the earth, and the ark went on the surface of the water." 
Genesis7:19 And the water prevailed more and more upon the earth, so that all the high mountains under all the heavens were covered." 
Genesis7:20 The water prevailed fifteen cubits higher, and the mountains were covered." 
Genesis7:21 And all flesh that moved on the earth breathed its last, that is birds and cattle and beasts and every swarming thing that swarms upon the earth, as well as all mankind." 
Genesis7:22 All in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life—of all that was on the dry land—died. 
Genesis7:23 Thus He blotted out every living thing that was upon the face of the land, from man to animals to creeping things and to birds of the sky, and they were blotted out from the earth; and only Noah remained, and those that were with him in the ark." 
Genesis7:24 And the water prevailed upon the earth 150 days. 
Genesis8:1 Then God remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the cattle that were with him in the ark; and God caused a wind to pass over the earth, and the water subsided." 
Genesis8:2 Also the fountains of the deep and the floodgates of the sky were closed, and the rain from the sky was restrained;" 
Genesis8:3 and the water receded from the earth, going forth and returning, and at the end of 150 days the water decreased." 
Genesis8:4 In the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark rested upon the mountains of Ararat." 
Genesis8:5 Now the water decreased steadily until the tenth month; in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains appeared." 
Genesis8:6 Then it happened at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made;" 
Genesis8:7 and he sent out a raven, and it went out flying back and forth until the water was dried up from the earth." 
Genesis8:8 Then he sent out a dove from him, to see if the water was abated from the face of the land;" 
Genesis8:9 but the dove found no resting place for the sole of its foot, so it returned to him into the ark, for the water was on the surface of all the earth. Then he stretched out his hand and took it and brought it into the ark to himself." 
Genesis8:10 Then he waited yet another seven days; and again he sent out the dove from the ark. 
Genesis8:11 And the dove came to him toward evening, and behold, in its beak was a freshly picked olive leaf. So Noah knew that the water was abated from the earth." 
Genesis8:12 Then he waited yet another seven days and sent out the dove; but it did not return to him again. 
Genesis8:13 Now it happened in the six hundred and first year, in the first month, on the first of the month, the water was dried up from the earth. Then Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and behold, the surface of the ground was dried up." 
Genesis8:14 In the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was dry." 
Genesis8:15 Then God spoke to Noah, saying," 
Genesis8:16 “Go out of the ark, you and your wife and your sons and your sons’ wives with you." 
Genesis8:17 Bring out with you every living thing of all flesh that is with you, birds and animals and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, that they may swarm on the earth, and that they may be fruitful and multiply on the earth.”" 
Genesis8:18 So Noah went out, and his sons and his wife and his sons’ wives with him." 
Genesis8:19 Every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird, everything that moves on the earth, went out by their families from the ark." 
Genesis8:20 Then Noah built an altar to Yahweh and took of every clean animal and of every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar. 
Genesis8:21 And Yahweh smelled the soothing aroma; and Yahweh said to Himself, “I will never again curse the ground because of man, for the intent of man’s heart is evil from his youth; and I will never again strike down every living thing as I have done." 
Genesis8:22 While all the days of the earth remain, Seedtime and harvest, And cold and heat, And summer and winter, And day and night Shall not cease.”" 
Genesis9:1 And God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, “Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth." 
Genesis9:2 And the fear of you and the terror of you will be on every beast of the earth and on every bird of the sky; with everything that creeps on the ground, and all the fish of the sea, into your hand they are given." 
Genesis9:3 Every moving thing that is alive shall be food for you; as with the green plant, I give all to you." 
Genesis9:4 However, flesh with its life, that is, its blood, you shall not eat." 
Genesis9:5 Surely I will require your lifeblood; from every living thing I will require it. And from every man, from each man’s brother I will require the life of man." 
Genesis9:6 Whoever sheds man’s blood, By man his blood shall be shed, For in the image of God He made man." 
Genesis9:7 As for you, be fruitful and multiply; Swarm on the earth and multiply in it.”" 
Genesis9:8 Then God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying," 
Genesis9:9 “As for Me, behold, I establish My covenant with you and with your seed after you;" 
Genesis9:10 and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you; of all that comes out of the ark, even every beast of the earth." 
Genesis9:11 Indeed I establish My covenant with you; and all flesh shall never again be cut off by the water of the flood, and there shall never again be a flood to destroy the earth.”" 
Genesis9:12 Then God said, “This is the sign of the covenant which I am giving to be between Me and you and every living creature that is with you, for all successive generations;" 
Genesis9:13 I put My bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a sign of a covenant between Me and the earth." 
Genesis9:14 And it will be, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow will be seen in the cloud," 
Genesis9:15 and I will remember My covenant, which is between Me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and never again shall the water become a flood to destroy all flesh." 
Genesis9:16 So the bow shall be in the cloud, and I will look upon it, to remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth.”" 
Genesis9:17 And God said to Noah, “This is the sign of the covenant which I have established between Me and all flesh that is on the earth.”" 
Genesis9:18 Now the sons of Noah who went out of the ark were Shem and Ham and Japheth; and Ham was the father of Canaan. 
Genesis9:19 These three were the sons of Noah, and from these the whole earth was scattered abroad." 
Genesis9:20 Then Noah began to be a man of the land and planted a vineyard. 
Genesis9:21 And he drank of the wine and became drunk and uncovered himself inside his tent. 
Genesis9:22 Then Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father and told his two brothers outside." 
Genesis9:23 But Shem and Japheth took the garment and laid it upon both their shoulders and walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were turned backward, so that they did not see their father’s nakedness." 
Genesis9:24 Then Noah awoke from his wine, and he knew what his youngest son had done to him." 
Genesis9:25 So he said, “Cursed be Canaan; A servant of servants He shall be to his brothers.”" 
Genesis9:26 And he said, “Blessed be Yahweh, The God of Shem; And let Canaan be his servant." 
Genesis9:27 May God enlarge Japheth, And let him dwell in the tents of Shem; And let Canaan be his servant.”" 
Genesis9:28 And Noah lived 350 years after the flood. 
Genesis9:29 So all the days of Noah were 950 years, and he died." 
Genesis10:1 Now these are the generations of Shem, Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah; and sons were born to them after the flood." 
Genesis10:2 The sons of Japheth were Gomer and Magog and Madai and Javan and Tubal and Meshech and Tiras. 
Genesis10:3 The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz and Riphath and Togarmah. 
Genesis10:4 The sons of Javan were Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim and Dodanim." 
Genesis10:5 From these the coastlands of the nations were separated into their lands, every one according to his tongue, according to their families, into their nations." 
Genesis10:6 The sons of Ham were Cush and Mizraim and Put and Canaan. 
Genesis10:7 The sons of Cush were Seba and Havilah and Sabtah and Raamah and Sabteca; and the sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan. 
Genesis10:8 Now Cush was the father of Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one on the earth. 
Genesis10:9 He was a mighty hunter before Yahweh; therefore it is said, “Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before Yahweh.”" 
Genesis10:10 The beginning of his kingdom was Babel and Erech and Accad and Calneh, in the land of Shinar." 
Genesis10:11 From that land he went out to Assyria and built Nineveh and Rehoboth-Ir and Calah," 
Genesis10:12 and Resen between Nineveh and Calah; that is the great city. 
Genesis10:13 Mizraim was the father of Ludim and Anamim and Lehabim and Naphtuhim 
Genesis10:14 and Pathrusim and Casluhim (from whom came the Philistines) and Caphtorim. 
Genesis10:15 Canaan was the father of Sidon, his firstborn, and Heth" 
Genesis10:16 and the Jebusite and the Amorite and the Girgashite 
Genesis10:17 and the Hivite and the Arkite and the Sinite 
Genesis10:18 and the Arvadite and the Zemarite and the Hamathite; and afterward the families of the Canaanite were scattered. 
Genesis10:19 The border of the Canaanite extended from Sidon as you go toward Gerar, as far as Gaza; as you go toward Sodom and Gomorrah and Admah and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha." 
Genesis10:20 These are the sons of Ham, according to their families, according to their tongues, by their lands, by their nations." 
Genesis10:21 Also to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, and the older brother of Japheth, children were born." 
Genesis10:22 The sons of Shem were Elam and Asshur and Arpachshad and Lud and Aram. 
Genesis10:23 The sons of Aram were Uz and Hul and Gether and Mash. 
Genesis10:24 Arpachshad was the father of Shelah; and Shelah was the father of Eber. 
Genesis10:25 Now two sons were born to Eber; the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother’s name was Joktan." 
Genesis10:26 And Joktan was the father of Almodad and Sheleph and Hazarmaveth and Jerah 
Genesis10:27 and Hadoram and Uzal and Diklah 
Genesis10:28 and Obal and Abimael and Sheba 
Genesis10:29 and Ophir and Havilah and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan. 
Genesis10:29 and Ophir and Havilah and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan. 
Genesis10:30 Now their settlement extended from Mesha as you go toward Sephar, the hill country of the east." 
Genesis10:31 These are the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their tongues, by their lands, according to their nations." 
Genesis10:32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, by their nations; and out of these the nations were separated on the earth after the flood." 
Genesis11:1 Now the whole earth had the same language and the same words. 
Genesis11:2 And it happened as they journeyed east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there." 
Genesis11:3 Then they said to one another, “Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly.” And they had brick for stone, and they had tar for mortar." 
Genesis11:4 And they said, “Come, let us build for ourselves a city, and a tower whose top will reach into heaven, and let us make for ourselves a name, lest we be scattered over the face of the whole earth.”" 
Genesis11:5 Then Yahweh came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built. 
Genesis11:6 And Yahweh said, “Behold, they are one people, and they all have the same language. And this is what they have begun to do. So now nothing which they purpose to do will be impossible for them." 
Genesis11:7 Come, let Us go down and there confuse their language, so that they will not understand one another’s language.”" 
Genesis11:8 So Yahweh scattered them from there over the face of the whole earth; and they stopped building the city. 
Genesis11:9 Therefore its name was called Babel, because there Yahweh confused the language of the whole earth; and from there Yahweh scattered them over the face of the whole earth." 
Genesis11:10 These are the generations of Shem. Shem was 100 years old and became the father of Arpachshad two years after the flood; 
Genesis11:11 and Shem lived 500 years after he became the father of Arpachshad, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:12 And Arpachshad lived 35 years and became the father of Shelah; 
Genesis11:13 and Arpachshad lived 403 years after he became the father of Shelah, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:14 And Shelah lived 30 years and became the father of Eber; 
Genesis11:15 and Shelah lived 403 years after he became the father of Eber, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:16 And Eber lived 34 years and became the father of Peleg; 
Genesis11:17 and Eber lived 430 years after he became the father of Peleg, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:18 And Peleg lived 30 years and became the father of Reu; 
Genesis11:19 and Peleg lived 209 years after he became the father of Reu, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:20 And Reu lived 32 years and became the father of Serug; 
Genesis11:21 and Reu lived 207 years after he became the father of Serug, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:22 And Serug lived 30 years and became the father of Nahor; 
Genesis11:23 and Serug lived 200 years after he became the father of Nahor, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:24 Nahor lived 29 years and became the father of Terah; 
Genesis11:25 and Nahor lived 119 years after he became the father of Terah, and he became the father of other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:26 And Terah lived 70 years and became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran." 
Genesis11:27 Now these are the generations of Terah. Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran became the father of Lot." 
Genesis11:28 And Haran died in the presence of Terah his father in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldeans." 
Genesis11:29 Abram and Nahor took wives for themselves. The name of Abram’s wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor’s wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah and the father of Iscah." 
Genesis11:30 And Sarai was barren; she had no child. 
Genesis11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran, his grandson, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram’s wife; and they went out together from Ur of the Chaldeans in order to go to the land of Canaan; and they came as far as Haran and settled there." 
Genesis11:32 And the days of Terah were 205 years; and Terah died in Haran. 
Genesis12:1 And Yahweh said to Abram, “Go forth from your land, And from your kin And from your father’s house, To the land which I will show you;" 
Genesis12:2 And I will make you a great nation, And I will bless you, And make your name great; And so you shall be a blessing;" 
Genesis12:3 And I will bless those who bless you, And the one who curses you I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed.”" 
Genesis12:4 So Abram went forth as Yahweh had spoken to him; and Lot went with him. Now Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. 
Genesis12:5 So Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother’s son, and all their possessions which they had accumulated, and the persons which they had acquired in Haran, and they departed to go forth to the land of Canaan; thus they came to the land of Canaan." 
Genesis12:6 And Abram passed through the land as far as the site of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. Now the Canaanite was then in the land." 
Genesis12:7 Then Yahweh appeared to Abram and said, “To your seed I will give this land.” So he built an altar there to Yahweh who had appeared to him." 
Genesis12:8 Then he proceeded from there to the mountain on the east of Bethel, and he pitched his tent with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east; and there he built an altar to Yahweh and called upon the name of Yahweh." 
Genesis12:9 And Abram journeyed on, continuing toward the Negev." 
Genesis12:10 Now there was a famine in the land; so Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land." 
Genesis12:11 And it happened as he drew near to entering Egypt, that he said to Sarai his wife, “Now behold, I know that you are a woman beautiful in appearance;" 
Genesis12:12 and it will be when the Egyptians see you, that they will say, ‘This is his wife’; and they will kill me, but they will let you live." 
Genesis12:13 Please say that you are my sister so that it may go well with me because of you, and that I may live on account of you.”" 
Genesis12:14 Now it happened when Abram came into Egypt, that the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful." 
Genesis12:15 And Pharaoh’s officials saw her and praised her to Pharaoh; and the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house. 
Genesis12:16 Therefore he treated Abram well because of her; and sheep and oxen and donkeys and male and female servants and female donkeys and camels came into his possession. 
Genesis12:17 But Yahweh struck Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram’s wife." 
Genesis12:18 Then Pharaoh called Abram and said, “What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife?" 
Genesis12:19 Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,’ so that I took her for myself as a wife? So now, here is your wife, take her and go.”" 
Genesis12:20 So Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him; and they sent him away with his wife and all that belonged to him. 
Genesis13:1 So Abram went up from Egypt to the Negev, he and his wife and all that belonged to him, and Lot with him." 
Genesis13:2 Now Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver and in gold." 
Genesis13:3 And he went on his journeys from the Negev as far as Bethel, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai," 
Genesis13:4 to the place of the altar which he had made there formerly; and there Abram called upon the name of Yahweh. 
Genesis13:5 Now Lot, who was going with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents." 
Genesis13:6 And the land could not sustain them while living together, for their possessions were so abundant that they were not able to live together." 
Genesis13:7 And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram’s livestock and the herdsmen of Lot’s livestock. Now the Canaanite and the Perizzite were living then in the land. 
Genesis13:8 So Abram said to Lot, “Please let there be no strife between you and me, nor between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we are brothers." 
Genesis13:9 Is not the whole land before you? Please separate from me; if to the left, then I will go to the right; or if to the right, then I will go to the left.”" 
Genesis13:10 Then Lot lifted up his eyes and saw all the valley of the Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere—this was before Yahweh destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah—like the garden of Yahweh, like the land of Egypt as you go to Zoar." 
Genesis13:11 So Lot chose for himself all the valley of the Jordan, and Lot journeyed eastward. Thus they separated from each other." 
Genesis13:12 Abram lived in the land of Canaan, while Lot lived in the cities of the valley and moved his tents as far as Sodom." 
Genesis13:13 Now the men of Sodom were evil and sinners, exceedingly so, against Yahweh." 
Genesis13:14 And Yahweh said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, “Now lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward;" 
Genesis13:15 for all the land which you see, I will give it to you and to your seed forever." 
Genesis13:16 And I will make your seed as the dust of the earth, so that if anyone can number the dust of the earth, then your seed can also be numbered." 
Genesis13:17 Arise, walk about the land through its length and breadth; for I will give it to you.”" 
Genesis13:18 Then Abram moved his tent and came and lived by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron, and there he built an altar to Yahweh." 
Genesis14:1 And it happened in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim," 
Genesis14:2 that they made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar)." 
Genesis14:3 All these came as allies to the valley of Siddim (that is, the Salt Sea)." 
Genesis14:4 Now for twelve years they had served Chedorlaomer, but the thirteenth year they rebelled." 
Genesis14:5 So in the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and the kings that were with him, came and struck the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim and the Zuzim in Ham and the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim," 
Genesis14:6 and the Horites in their Mount Seir, as far as El-paran, which is by the wilderness." 
Genesis14:7 Then they turned back and came to En-mishpat (that is, Kadesh). And they struck all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, who were living in Hazazon-tamar." 
Genesis14:8 And the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah and the king of Admah and the king of Zeboiim and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar) came out; and they arranged themselves for battle against them in the valley of Siddim," 
Genesis14:9 against Chedorlaomer king of Elam and Tidal king of Goiim and Amraphel king of Shinar and Arioch king of Ellasar, four kings against five—" 
Genesis14:10 now the valley of Siddim was full of tar pits—and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and they fell into them; but those who remained behind fled to the hill country." 
Genesis14:11 Then they took all the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their food supply and departed. 
Genesis14:12 They also took Lot, Abram’s nephew, and his possessions and departed; now he was living in Sodom." 
Genesis14:13 Then a fugitive came and told Abram the Hebrew. Now he was dwelling by the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol and brother of Aner, and these were in a covenant with Abram." 
Genesis14:14 So Abram heard that his relative had been taken captive, and he led out his trained men, born in his house, 318 in number, and went in pursuit as far as Dan." 
Genesis14:15 And he divided his men against them by night, he and his servants, and struck them and pursued them as far as Hobah, which is north of Damascus." 
Genesis14:16 And he brought back all the possessions, and he also brought back his relative Lot with his possessions and also the women and the people." 
Genesis14:17 Then after he came back from striking down Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the valley of Shaveh (that is, the King’s Valley)." 
Genesis14:18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine; now he was a priest of God Most High. 
Genesis14:19 Then he blessed him and said, “Blessed be Abram of God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth;" 
Genesis14:20 And blessed be God Most High, Who has delivered your enemies into your hand.” Then he gave him a tenth of all." 
Genesis14:21 And the king of Sodom said to Abram, “Give the people to me, but take the possessions for yourself.”" 
Genesis14:22 Then Abram said to the king of Sodom, “I have raised my hand to Yahweh God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth," 
Genesis14:23 that I will not take a thread or a sandal strap or anything that is yours, so that you would not say, ‘I have made Abram rich.’" 
Genesis14:24 I will take nothing except what the young men have eaten, and the share of the men who went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their share.”" 
Genesis15:1 After these things the word of Yahweh came to Abram in a vision, saying, “Do not fear, Abram, I am a shield to you; Your reward shall be very great.”" 
Genesis15:2 And Abram said, “O Lord Yahweh, what will You give me, as I go on being childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?”" 
Genesis15:3 And Abram said, “Since You have given no seed to me, behold, one born in my house is my heir.”" 
Genesis15:4 Then behold, the word of Yahweh came to him, saying, “This one will not be your heir; but one who will come forth from your own body, he shall be your heir.”" 
Genesis15:5 And He brought him outside and said, “Now look toward the heavens, and number the stars, if you are able to number them.” And He said to him, “So shall your seed be.”" 
Genesis15:6 Then he believed in Yahweh; and He counted it to him as righteousness. 
Genesis15:7 And He said to him, “I am Yahweh who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans, to give you this land to possess it.”" 
Genesis15:8 And he said, “O Lord Yahweh, how may I know that I will possess it?”" 
Genesis15:9 So He said to him, “Bring Me a three year old heifer, and a three year old female goat, and a three year old ram, and a turtledove, and a young pigeon.”" 
Genesis15:10 Then he brought all these to Him and split them into parts down the middle and laid each part opposite the other; but he did not split apart the birds. 
Genesis15:11 Then the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, and Abram drove them away." 
Genesis15:12 Now it happened that when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and behold, terror and great darkness fell upon him." 
Genesis15:13 Then God said to Abram, “Know for certain that your seed will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and they will be enslaved and mistreated four hundred years." 
Genesis15:14 But I will also judge the nation to whom they are enslaved, and afterward they will come out with many possessions." 
Genesis15:15 As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace; you will be buried at a good old age." 
Genesis15:16 Then in the fourth generation they will return here, for the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet complete.”" 
Genesis15:17 Now it happened that the sun had set, and it was very dark, and behold, there appeared a smoking oven and a flaming torch which passed between these pieces." 
Genesis15:18 On that day Yahweh cut a covenant with Abram, saying, “To your seed I have given this land, From the river of Egypt as far as the great river, the river Euphrates:" 
Genesis15:19 the Kenite and the Kenizzite and the Kadmonite 
Genesis15:20 and the Hittite and the Perizzite and the Rephaim 
Genesis15:21 and the Amorite and the Canaanite and the Girgashite and the Jebusite.” 
Genesis16:1 Now Sarai, Abram’s wife, had borne him no children, and she had an Egyptian servant-woman whose name was Hagar." 
Genesis16:2 So Sarai said to Abram, “Now behold, Yahweh has shut my womb from bearing children. Please go in to my servant-woman; perhaps I will obtain children through her.” And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai." 
Genesis16:3 And after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Abram’s wife Sarai took Hagar the Egyptian, her servant-woman, and gave her to her husband Abram as his wife." 
Genesis16:4 So he went in to Hagar, and she conceived. Then she saw that she had conceived, so her mistress became contemptible in her sight." 
Genesis16:5 And Sarai said to Abram, “May the violence done to me be upon you. I gave my servant-woman into your embrace, but she saw that she had conceived, so I became contemptible in her sight. May Yahweh judge between you and me.”" 
Genesis16:6 But Abram said to Sarai, “Behold, your servant-woman is in your hand; do to her what is good in your sight.” So Sarai afflicted her, and she fled from her presence." 
Genesis16:7 Now the angel of Yahweh found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, by the spring on the way to Shur." 
Genesis16:8 And he said, “Hagar, Sarai’s servant-woman, where have you come from and where are you going?” And she said, “I am fleeing from the presence of my mistress Sarai.”" 
Genesis16:9 Then the angel of Yahweh said to her, “Return to your mistress and humble yourself under her hands.”" 
Genesis16:10 Moreover, the angel of Yahweh said to her, “I will greatly multiply your seed so that they will be too many to be counted.”" 
Genesis16:11 And the angel of Yahweh said to her further, “Behold, you are with child, And you will bear a son; And you shall call his name Ishmael, Because Yahweh has heard your affliction." 
Genesis16:12 And he will be a wild donkey of a man, His hand will be against everyone, And everyone’s hand will be against him; And he will dwell in the face of all his brothers.”" 
Genesis16:13 Then she called the name of Yahweh who spoke to her, “You are a God who sees”; for she said, “Have I even remained alive here after seeing Him?”" 
Genesis16:14 Therefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi; behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered." 
Genesis16:15 So Hagar bore Abram a son; and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael." 
Genesis16:16 Now Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to him. 
Genesis17:1 Now it happened that when Abram was ninety-nine years old, Yahweh appeared to Abram and said to him, “I am God Almighty; Walk before Me and be blameless," 
Genesis17:2 so that I may confirm My covenant between Me and you, And that I may multiply you exceedingly.”" 
Genesis17:3 Then Abram fell on his face, and God spoke with him, saying," 
Genesis17:4 “As for Me, behold, My covenant is with you, And you will be the father of a multitude of nations." 
Genesis17:5 And no longer shall your name be called Abram, But your name shall be Abraham; For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations." 
Genesis17:6 And I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make nations of you, and kings will go forth from you." 
Genesis17:7 And I will establish My covenant between Me and you and your seed after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your seed after you." 
Genesis17:8 And I will give to you and to your seed after you, the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.”" 
Genesis17:9 God said further to Abraham, “Now as for you, you shall keep My covenant, you and your seed after you throughout their generations." 
Genesis17:10 This is My covenant, which you shall keep, between Me and you and your seed after you: every male among you shall be circumcised." 
Genesis17:11 And you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be the sign of the covenant between Me and you." 
Genesis17:12 And every male among you who is eight days old shall be circumcised throughout your generations, one who is born in the house or one who is bought with money from any foreigner, who is not of your seed." 
Genesis17:13 A servant who is born in your house or who is bought with your money shall surely be circumcised; thus shall My covenant be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. 
Genesis17:14 But an uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that person shall be cut off from his people; he has broken My covenant.”" 
Genesis17:15 Then God said to Abraham, “As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name." 
Genesis17:16 And I will bless her, and indeed I will give you a son by her. Then I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of peoples will come from her.”" 
Genesis17:17 Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed and said in his heart, “Will a son be born to a man one hundred years old? And will Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a son?”" 
Genesis17:18 And Abraham said to God, “Oh that Ishmael might live before You!”" 
Genesis17:19 But God said, “No, but Sarah your wife will bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac; and I will establish My covenant with him for an everlasting covenant for his seed after him." 
Genesis17:20 As for Ishmael, I have heard you; behold, I will bless him and will make him fruitful and will multiply him exceedingly. He shall become the father of twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation." 
Genesis17:21 But My covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to you at this season next year.”" 
Genesis17:22 So He finished talking with him, and God went up from Abraham." 
Genesis17:23 Then Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all who were born in his house and all who were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham’s household, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the very same day, as God had spoken with him." 
Genesis17:24 Now Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
Genesis17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
Genesis17:26 In the very same day Abraham was circumcised, and Ishmael his son." 
Genesis17:27 Now all the men of his household, who were born in the house or bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him." 
Genesis18:1 Then Yahweh appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, while he was sitting at the tent door in the heat of the day." 
Genesis18:2 And he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing nearby; he saw, and he ran from the tent door to meet them, and he bowed himself to the earth," 
Genesis18:3 and he said, “My Lord, if now I have found favor in Your sight, please do not pass Your servant by." 
Genesis18:4 Please let a little water be brought and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree;" 
Genesis18:5 and let me bring a piece of bread, that you may refresh your hearts; after that you may pass on, since in such a manner you have passed by your servant.” And they said, “So you shall do, as you have said.”" 
Genesis18:6 So Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah and said, “Hurry, prepare three seahs of fine flour, knead it, and make bread cakes.”" 
Genesis18:7 Abraham also ran to the herd and took a tender and choice calf and gave it to his young man, and he hurried to prepare it." 
Genesis18:8 Then he took curds and milk and the calf which he had prepared, and placed it before them; and he was standing by them under the tree, and they ate." 
Genesis18:9 Then they said to him, “Where is Sarah your wife?” And he said, “There, in the tent.”" 
Genesis18:10 And He said, “I will surely return to you at this time next year; and behold, Sarah your wife will have a son.” And Sarah was listening at the tent door which was behind him." 
Genesis18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in age; Sarah was past childbearing." 
Genesis18:12 And Sarah laughed to herself, saying, “After I am worn out, shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?”" 
Genesis18:13 And Yahweh said to Abraham, “Why did Sarah laugh, saying, ‘Shall I indeed bear a son, when I am so old?’" 
Genesis18:14 Is anything too difficult for Yahweh? At the appointed time I will return to you, at this time next year, and Sarah will have a son.”" 
Genesis18:15 Then Sarah denied it however, saying, “I did not laugh”; for she was afraid. And He said, “No, but you did laugh.”" 
Genesis18:16 Then the men rose up from there and looked down toward Sodom; and Abraham was walking with them to send them off. 
Genesis18:17 Now Yahweh said, “Shall I conceal from Abraham what I am about to do," 
Genesis18:18 since Abraham will surely become a great and mighty nation, and in him all the nations of the earth will be blessed?" 
Genesis18:19 For I have known him, so that he may command his children and his household after him, that they keep the way of Yahweh to do righteousness and justice, so that Yahweh may bring upon Abraham what He has spoken about him.”" 
Genesis18:20 So Yahweh said, “The outcry of Sodom and Gomorrah is indeed great, and their sin is exceedingly grave." 
Genesis18:21 I will go down now and see whether they have done entirely according to its outcry, which has come to Me; and if not, I will know.”" 
Genesis18:22 Then the men turned away from there and went toward Sodom, while Abraham was still standing before Yahweh." 
Genesis18:23 Then Abraham came near and said, “Will You indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked?" 
Genesis18:24 Suppose there are fifty righteous within the city; will You indeed sweep it away and not spare the place for the sake of the fifty righteous who are in it? 
Genesis18:25 Far be it from You to do such a thing, to put to death the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous and the wicked are treated alike. Far be it from You! Shall not the Judge of all the earth do justice?”" 
Genesis18:26 So Yahweh said, “If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare the whole place on their account.”" 
Genesis18:27 And Abraham answered and said, “Now behold, I have ventured to speak to the Lord, although I am but dust and ashes." 
Genesis18:28 Suppose the fifty righteous are lacking five, will You destroy the whole city because of five?” And He said, “I will not destroy it if I find forty-five there.”" 
Genesis18:29 Then he spoke to Him yet again and said, “Suppose forty are found there?” And He said, “I will not do it on account of the forty.”" 
Genesis18:30 Then he said, “Oh may the Lord not be angry, and I shall speak; suppose thirty are found there?” And He said, “I will not do it if I find thirty there.”" 
Genesis18:31 And he said, “Now behold, I have ventured to speak to the Lord; suppose twenty are found there?” And He said, “I will not destroy it on account of the twenty.”" 
Genesis18:32 Then he said, “Oh may the Lord not be angry, and I shall speak only this once; suppose ten are found there?” And He said, “I will not destroy it on account of the ten.”" 
Genesis18:33 And as soon as He had finished speaking to Abraham, Yahweh departed, and Abraham returned to his place." 
Genesis19:1 Then the two angels came to Sodom in the evening as Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. Lot saw them and rose to meet them and bowed down with his face to the ground. 
Genesis19:2 And he said, “Now behold, my lords, please turn aside into your servant’s house, and spend the night, and wash your feet; then you may rise early and go on your way.” They said however, “No, but we shall spend the night in the square.”" 
Genesis19:3 Yet he pressed them strongly, so they turned aside to him and entered his house; and he made a feast for them and baked unleavened bread, and they ate." 
Genesis19:4 Before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, surrounded the house, from young to old, all the people from every quarter;" 
Genesis19:5 and they called to Lot and said to him, “Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us that we may know them.”" 
Genesis19:6 But Lot went out to them at the doorway and shut the door behind him," 
Genesis19:7 and said, “Please, my brothers, do not act wickedly." 
Genesis19:8 Now behold, I have two daughters who have not known a man; please let me bring them out to you, and do to them what is good in your eyes; only do nothing to these men, inasmuch as they have come under the shelter of my roof.”" 
Genesis19:9 But they said, “Step aside.” Furthermore, they said, “This one came to sojourn, and already he is persistently acting like a judge; now we will treat you more wickedly than them.” So they pressed hard against Lot and stepped up to break the door." 
Genesis19:10 But the men reached out their hands and brought Lot into the house with them and shut the door. 
Genesis19:11 And they struck the men who were at the doorway of the house with blindness, from small to great, so that they wearied themselves trying to find the doorway." 
Genesis19:12 Then the two men said to Lot, “Whom else have you here? A son-in-law, and your sons, and your daughters, and everyone you have in the city, bring them out of the place;" 
Genesis19:13 for we are about to destroy this place because their outcry has become great before Yahweh, so Yahweh has sent us to destroy it.”" 
Genesis19:14 And Lot went out and spoke to his sons-in-law, who were to marry his daughters, and said, “Get up, get out of this place, for Yahweh will destroy the city.” But he appeared to his sons-in-law to be jesting." 
Genesis19:15 Now at the breaking of dawn, the angels urged Lot, saying, “Get up, take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you be swept away in the punishment of the city.”" 
Genesis19:16 But he hesitated. So the men seized his hand and the hand of his wife and the hands of his two daughters, for the compassion of Yahweh was upon him; and they brought him out and put him outside the city." 
Genesis19:17 Now it happened, as they brought them outside, one said, “Escape for your life! Do not look behind you, and do not stay anywhere in the valley; escape to the mountains, lest you be swept away.”" 
Genesis19:18 But Lot said to them, “Oh no, my lords!" 
Genesis19:19 Now behold, your servant has found favor in your sight, and you have magnified your lovingkindness, which you have shown me by preserving my life; but I cannot escape to the mountains, lest calamity overtake me and I die;" 
Genesis19:20 now behold, this town is near enough to flee to, and it is small. Please, let me escape there (is it not small?) that my life may be preserved.”" 
Genesis19:21 And he said to him, “Behold, I grant you this request also, that I will not overthrow the city of which you have spoken." 
Genesis19:22 Hurry, escape there, for I cannot do anything until you arrive there.” Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar." 
Genesis19:23 The sun had risen over the earth when Lot came to Zoar. 
Genesis19:24 And Yahweh rained on Sodom and Gomorrah brimstone and fire from Yahweh out of heaven," 
Genesis19:25 and He overthrew those cities, and all the valley, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and what grew on the ground." 
Genesis19:26 Then his wife, from behind him, looked back, and she became a pillar of salt." 
Genesis19:27 Now Abraham arose early in the morning and went to the place where he had stood before Yahweh; 
Genesis19:28 and he looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the valley, and he saw, and behold, the smoke of the land went up like the smoke of a furnace." 
Genesis19:29 Thus it happened, when God destroyed the cities of the valley, that God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when He overthrew the cities in which Lot lived." 
Genesis19:30 And Lot went up from Zoar and stayed in the mountains, and his two daughters with him; for he was afraid to stay in Zoar; and he stayed in a cave, he and his two daughters." 
Genesis19:31 Then the firstborn said to the younger, “Our father is old, and there is not a man on earth to come in to us after the manner of the earth." 
Genesis19:32 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and let us lie with him that we may preserve our seed through our father.”" 
Genesis19:33 So they made their father drink wine that night, and the firstborn went in and lay with her father; and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose." 
Genesis19:34 Now it happened on the following day, that the firstborn said to the younger, “Behold, I lay last night with my father; let us make him drink wine tonight also; and you go in and lie with him, that we may preserve our seed through our father.”" 
Genesis19:35 So they made their father drink wine that night also, and the younger arose and lay with him; and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose." 
Genesis19:36 Thus both the daughters of Lot conceived by their father. 
Genesis19:37 And the firstborn bore a son and called his name Moab; he is the father of the Moabites to this day. 
Genesis19:38 As for the younger, she also bore a son and called his name Ben-ammi; he is the father of the sons of Ammon to this day." 
Genesis20:1 And Abraham journeyed from there toward the land of the Negev and settled between Kadesh and Shur; then he sojourned in Gerar. 
Genesis20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, “She is my sister.” So Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah." 
Genesis20:3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night and said to him, “Behold, you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is married.”" 
Genesis20:4 (Now Abimelech had not come near her.) Then he said, “Lord, will You kill a nation, even though righteous?" 
Genesis20:5 Did he not himself say to me, ‘She is my sister’? And she herself also said, ‘He is my brother.’ In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands I have done this.”" 
Genesis20:6 Then God said to him in the dream, “Indeed, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also held you back from sinning against Me; therefore I did not let you touch her." 
Genesis20:7 So now, return the man’s wife, for he is a prophet, and he will pray for you, and you will live. But if you do not return her, know that you shall surely die, you and all who are yours.”" 
Genesis20:8 So Abimelech arose early in the morning and called all his servants and told all these things in their hearing; and the men were greatly afraid. 
Genesis20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, “What have you done to us? And how have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? You have done to me things that ought not to be done.”" 
Genesis20:10 And Abimelech said to Abraham, “What have you seen, that you have done this thing?”" 
Genesis20:11 And Abraham said, “Because I said, surely there is no fear of God in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife." 
Genesis20:12 Besides, she actually is my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife;" 
Genesis20:13 and it happened when God caused me to wander from my father’s house, that I said to her, ‘This is the lovingkindness which you will show to me: everywhere we go, say of me, “He is my brother.”’”" 
Genesis20:14 Abimelech then took sheep and oxen and male and female slaves and gave them to Abraham and returned his wife Sarah to him. 
Genesis20:15 And Abimelech said, “Behold, my land is before you; settle wherever it is good in your sight.”" 
Genesis20:16 To Sarah he said, “Behold, I have given your brother one thousand pieces of silver; behold, it is your vindication before all who are with you, and before all you are cleared.”" 
Genesis20:17 And Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech and his wife and his maidservants, so that they bore children." 
Genesis20:18 For Yahweh had utterly shut all the wombs of the household of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife." 
Genesis21:1 Now Yahweh visited Sarah as He had said, and Yahweh did for Sarah as He had promised." 
Genesis21:2 So Sarah conceived and bore a son to Abraham in his old age, at the appointed time of which God had spoken to him." 
Genesis21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore to him, Isaac." 
Genesis21:4 Then Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him." 
Genesis21:5 Now Abraham was one hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him. 
Genesis21:6 And Sarah said, “God has made laughter for me; everyone who hears will laugh with me.”" 
Genesis21:7 And she said, “Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age.”" 
Genesis21:8 And the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned." 
Genesis21:9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, laughing in jest." 
Genesis21:10 Therefore she said to Abraham, “Drive out this maidservant and her son! The son of this maidservant shall not be an heir with my son, with Isaac.”" 
Genesis21:11 And the matter distressed Abraham greatly because of his son. 
Genesis21:12 So God said to Abraham, “Do not be distressed because of the boy and your maidservant; whatever Sarah tells you, listen to her voice, for through Isaac your seed shall be named." 
Genesis21:13 And of the son of the maidservant I will make a nation also, because he is your seed.”" 
Genesis21:14 So Abraham rose early in the morning and took bread and a skin of water and gave them to Hagar, putting them on her shoulder, and gave her the child, and sent her away. So she went and wandered about in the wilderness of Beersheba." 
Genesis21:15 When the water in the skin was finished, she put the child under one of the bushes." 
Genesis21:16 Then she went and sat down opposite him, about a bowshot away, for she said, “Do not let me see when the child dies.” And she sat opposite him and lifted up her voice and wept." 
Genesis21:17 Then God heard the voice of the boy crying; and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, “What is the matter with you, Hagar? Do not fear, for God has heard the voice of the boy where he is." 
Genesis21:18 Arise, lift up the boy, and hold him by the hand, for I will make a great nation of him.”" 
Genesis21:19 Then God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went and filled the skin with water and gave the boy a drink." 
Genesis21:20 And God was with the boy, and he grew; and he lived in the wilderness and was an archer." 
Genesis21:21 And he lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt." 
Genesis21:22 Now it happened at that time, that Abimelech and Phicol, the commander of his army, spoke to Abraham, saying, “God is with you in all that you do;" 
Genesis21:23 so now, swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me or with my offspring or with my posterity, but according to the lovingkindness that I have shown you, you shall show me and the land in which you have sojourned.”" 
Genesis21:24 And Abraham said, “I swear it.”" 
Genesis21:25 But Abraham reproved Abimelech about the well of water which the servants of Abimelech had seized. 
Genesis21:26 And Abimelech said, “I do not know who has done this thing; you did not tell me, nor did I hear of it until today.”" 
Genesis21:27 So Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech, and the two of them cut a covenant." 
Genesis21:28 Then Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves. 
Genesis21:29 And Abimelech said to Abraham, “What do these seven ewe lambs mean, which you have set by themselves?”" 
Genesis21:30 He said, “You shall take these seven ewe lambs from my hand so that it may be a witness to me, that I dug this well.”" 
Genesis21:31 Therefore he called that place Beersheba, because there the two of them swore an oath." 
Genesis21:32 So they cut a covenant at Beersheba; and Abimelech and Phicol, the commander of his army, arose and returned to the land of the Philistines." 
Genesis21:33 And Abraham planted a tamarisk tree at Beersheba, and there he called upon the name of Yahweh, the Everlasting God." 
Genesis21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines for many days. 
Genesis22:1 Now it happened after these things, that God tested Abraham and said to him, “Abraham!” And he said, “Here I am.”" 
Genesis22:2 Then He said, “Take now your son, your only one, whom you love, Isaac, and go forth to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you.”" 
Genesis22:3 So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey and took two of his young men with him and Isaac his son; and he split wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. 
Genesis22:4 On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from a distance. 
Genesis22:5 And Abraham said to his young men, “Stay here with the donkey while I and the boy go over there; and we will worship, and we will return to you.”" 
Genesis22:6 Then Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and put it on Isaac his son, and he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So the two of them walked on together." 
Genesis22:7 Then Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, “My father!” And he said, “Here I am, my son.” And he said, “Behold, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering?”" 
Genesis22:8 And Abraham said, “God will provide for Himself the lamb for the burnt offering, my son.” So the two of them walked on together." 
Genesis22:9 Then they came to the place of which God had told him; and Abraham built the altar there and arranged the wood and bound his son Isaac and put him on the altar, on top of the wood." 
Genesis22:10 And Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. 
Genesis22:11 But the angel of Yahweh called to him from heaven and said, “Abraham, Abraham!” And he said, “Here I am.”" 
Genesis22:12 And He said, “Do not stretch out your hand against the boy, and do nothing to him; for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only one, from Me.”" 
Genesis22:13 Then Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw, and behold, there was a ram after it had been caught in the thicket by its horns; and Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up for a burnt offering in the place of his son." 
Genesis22:14 And Abraham called the name of that place Yahweh Will Provide, as it is said this day, “In the mount of Yahweh it will be provided.”" 
Genesis22:15 Then the angel of Yahweh called to Abraham a second time from heaven," 
Genesis22:16 and said, “By Myself I have sworn, declares Yahweh, because you have done this thing and have not spared your son, your only one," 
Genesis22:17 indeed I will greatly bless you, and I will greatly multiply your seed as the stars of the heavens and as the sand which is on the seashore; and your seed shall possess the gate of his enemies." 
Genesis22:18 In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have listened to My voice.”" 
Genesis22:19 So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and walked together to Beersheba; and Abraham lived at Beersheba." 
Genesis22:20 Now it happened after these things, that it was told to Abraham, saying, “Behold, Milcah also has borne children to your brother Nahor:" 
Genesis22:21 Uz his firstborn and Buz his brother and Kemuel the father of Aram 
Genesis22:22 and Chesed and Hazo and Pildash and Jidlaph and Bethuel.” 
Genesis22:23 And Bethuel was the father of Rebekah. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham’s brother." 
Genesis22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, also bore Tebah and Gaham and Tahash and Maacah." 
Genesis23:1 And Sarah lived 127 years; these were the years of the life of Sarah. 
Genesis23:2 Sarah died in Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan; and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her." 
Genesis23:3 Then Abraham rose from before his dead and spoke to the sons of Heth, saying," 
Genesis23:4 “I am a sojourner and a foreign resident among you; give me a possession for a burial site among you that I may bury my dead out of my sight.” 
Genesis23:5 And the sons of Heth answered Abraham, saying to him," 
Genesis23:6 “Hear us, my lord, you are a mighty prince among us; bury your dead in the choicest of our burial sites; none of us will refuse you his burial sites for burying your dead.”" 
Genesis23:7 So Abraham rose and bowed to the people of the land, the sons of Heth." 
Genesis23:8 And he spoke with them, saying, “If it is your desire for me to bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and meet with Ephron the son of Zohar for me," 
Genesis23:9 that he may give me the cave of Machpelah which belongs to him, which is at the end of his field; for the full price let him give it to me in your presence as a possession for a burial site.”" 
Genesis23:10 Now Ephron was sitting among the sons of Heth; and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the hearing of the sons of Heth, even of all who went in at the gate of his city, saying," 
Genesis23:11 “No, my lord, hear me; I give you the field, and I give you the cave that is in it. In the sight of the sons of my people I give it to you; bury your dead.”" 
Genesis23:12 And Abraham bowed before the people of the land. 
Genesis23:13 And he spoke to Ephron in the hearing of the people of the land, saying, “If you will only please hear me; I will give the silver for the field, accept it from me that I may bury my dead there.”" 
Genesis23:14 Then Ephron answered Abraham, saying to him," 
Genesis23:15 “My lord, hear me; a piece of land worth four hundred shekels of silver, what is that between me and you? So bury your dead.”" 
Genesis23:16 So Abraham heard Ephron; and Abraham weighed out for Ephron the silver which he had named in the hearing of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, commercial standard." 
Genesis23:17 So Ephron’s field, which was in Machpelah, which faced Mamre, the field and the cave which was in it, and all the trees which were in the field, that were within all the confines of its border, were deeded over" 
Genesis23:18 to Abraham as purchased in the sight of the sons of Heth, before all who came in at the gate of his city." 
Genesis23:19 After this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field at Machpelah facing Mamre (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis23:20 So the field and the cave that is in it were deeded over to Abraham for a possession for a burial site by the sons of Heth. 
Genesis24:1 Now Abraham was old, advanced in age; and Yahweh had blessed Abraham in every way." 
Genesis24:2 And Abraham said to his servant, the oldest of his household, who ruled over all that he owned, “Please place your hand under my thigh," 
Genesis24:3 and I will make you swear by Yahweh, the God of heaven and the God of earth, that you shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I live," 
Genesis24:4 but you will go to my land and to my kin, and take a wife for my son Isaac.”" 
Genesis24:5 And the servant said to him, “Suppose the woman is not willing to follow me to this land; should I indeed take your son back to the land from where you came?”" 
Genesis24:6 Then Abraham said to him, “Beware lest you take my son back there!" 
Genesis24:7 Yahweh, the God of heaven, who took me from my father’s house and from the land of my kin, and who spoke to me and who swore to me, saying, ‘To your seed I will give this land,’ He will send His angel before you, and you will take a wife for my son from there." 
Genesis24:8 But if the woman is not willing to follow you, then you will be free from this oath of mine; only do not take my son back there.”" 
Genesis24:9 So the servant placed his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master and swore to him concerning this matter. 
Genesis24:10 Then the servant took ten camels from the camels of his master, and he went with all kinds of good things of his master’s in his hand. So he arose and went to Mesopotamia, to the city of Nahor." 
Genesis24:11 And he made the camels kneel down outside the city by the well of water at evening time, the time when the women go out to draw water." 
Genesis24:12 And he said, “O Yahweh, the God of my master Abraham, please cause this to happen before me today, and show lovingkindness to my master Abraham." 
Genesis24:13 Behold, I am standing by the spring of water, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water;" 
Genesis24:14 now may it be that the young woman to whom I say, ‘Please let down your jar so that I may drink,’ and she says, ‘Drink, and I will give water to your camels to drink also’—may she be the one whom You have decided for Your servant Isaac; and by this I will know that You have shown lovingkindness to my master.”" 
Genesis24:15 And before he had finished speaking, behold, Rebekah who was born to Bethuel the son of Milcah, the wife of Abraham’s brother Nahor, was coming out with her jar on her shoulder." 
Genesis24:16 Now the young woman was very beautiful in appearance, a virgin, and no man had known her; and she went down to the spring and filled her jar and came up." 
Genesis24:17 Then the servant ran to meet her and said, “Please give me a little water to drink from your jar.”" 
Genesis24:18 And she said, “Drink, my lord”; and she quickly lowered her jar to her hand and gave him a drink." 
Genesis24:19 Now when she had finished giving him a drink, she said, “I will draw also for your camels until they have finished drinking.”" 
Genesis24:20 So she hurried and emptied her jar into the watering channel and ran again to the well to draw, and she drew for all his camels." 
Genesis24:21 Meanwhile, the man was gazing at her in silence, to know whether Yahweh had made his journey successful or not." 
Genesis24:22 Now it happened that when the camels had finished drinking, the man took a gold ring weighing a half-shekel and two bracelets for her wrists weighing ten shekels in gold," 
Genesis24:23 and said, “Whose daughter are you? Please tell me, is there a place for us to lodge in your father’s house?”" 
Genesis24:24 And she said to him, “I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Milcah, whom she bore to Nahor.”" 
Genesis24:25 And she said to him, “We have plenty of both straw and feed, and a place to lodge in.”" 
Genesis24:26 Then the man bowed low and worshiped Yahweh. 
Genesis24:27 And he said, “Blessed be Yahweh, the God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken His lovingkindness and His truth toward my master; as for me, Yahweh has guided me in the way to the house of my master’s brothers.”" 
Genesis24:28 Then the young woman ran and told her mother’s household about these things. 
Genesis24:29 Now Rebekah had a brother whose name was Laban; and Laban ran outside to the man at the spring. 
Genesis24:30 Now it happened, when he saw the ring and the bracelets on his sister’s wrists, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, “This is what the man said to me,” he came out to the man; and behold, he was standing by the camels at the spring." 
Genesis24:31 And he said, “Come in, blessed of Yahweh! Why do you stand outside since I have prepared the house and a place for the camels?”" 
Genesis24:32 So the man came into the house. Then Laban unloaded the camels, and he gave straw and feed to the camels, and water to wash his feet and the feet of the men who were with him." 
Genesis24:33 Then food was set before him to eat, but he said, “I will not eat until I have spoken my words.” And he said, “Speak!”" 
Genesis24:34 So he said, “I am Abraham’s servant." 
Genesis24:35 And Yahweh has greatly blessed my master, so he has become great; and He has given him flocks and herds, and silver and gold, and male slaves and female slaves, and camels and donkeys." 
Genesis24:36 Now Sarah my master’s wife bore a son to my master in her old age, and he has given him all that he has." 
Genesis24:37 And my master made me swear, saying, ‘You shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I live;" 
Genesis24:38 but you shall go to my father’s house and to my family, and take a wife for my son.’" 
Genesis24:39 Then I said to my master, ‘Suppose the woman does not follow me.’" 
Genesis24:40 And he said to me, ‘Yahweh, before whom I have walked, will send His angel with you and will make your journey successful, and you will take a wife for my son from my family and from my father’s house." 
Genesis24:41 Then you will be free from my oath, when you come to my relatives. Now if they do not give her to you, you will be free from my oath.’" 
Genesis24:42 “So I came today to the spring and said, ‘O Yahweh, the God of my master Abraham, if now You will make my journey on which I go successful;" 
Genesis24:43 behold, I am standing by the spring of water, and may it be that the maiden who comes out to draw, and to whom I say, “Please let me drink a little water from your jar”;" 
Genesis24:44 and she will say to me, “You drink, and I will draw for your camels also”; she is the woman whom Yahweh has decided upon for my master’s son.’" 
Genesis24:45 “Before I had finished speaking in my heart, behold, Rebekah was coming out with her jar on her shoulder, and she went down to the spring and drew, and I said to her, ‘Please give me a drink.’" 
Genesis24:46 Then she hurried and lowered her jar from her shoulder and said, ‘Drink, and I will also give water to your camels to drink’; so I drank, and she also gave water to the camels to drink." 
Genesis24:47 Then I asked her and said, ‘Whose daughter are you?’ And she said, ‘The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor’s son, whom Milcah bore to him’; and I put the ring on her nose and the bracelets on her wrists." 
Genesis24:48 And I bowed low and worshiped Yahweh; and I blessed Yahweh, the God of my master Abraham, who had guided me in the true way to take the daughter of my master’s relative for his son." 
Genesis24:49 So now if you are going to show lovingkindness and truth with my master, tell me; and if not, tell me, that I may turn to the right or to the left.”" 
Genesis24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, “The matter comes from Yahweh; so we cannot speak to you bad or good." 
Genesis24:51 Behold, Rebekah is before you, take her and go, and let her be the wife of your master’s son, as Yahweh has spoken.”" 
Genesis24:52 Now it happened that when Abraham’s servant heard their words, he bowed himself to the ground before Yahweh." 
Genesis24:53 The servant brought out articles of silver and articles of gold, and garments, and gave them to Rebekah; he also gave precious things to her brother and to her mother." 
Genesis24:54 Then he and the men who were with him ate and drank and spent the night. And then they arose in the morning, and he said, “Send me away to my master.”" 
Genesis24:55 But her brother and her mother said, “Let the young woman stay with us a few days, or even ten; afterward she will go.”" 
Genesis24:56 And he said to them, “Do not delay me, since Yahweh has made my way successful. Send me away that I may go to my master.”" 
Genesis24:57 And they said, “We will call the young woman and ask about her wishes.”" 
Genesis24:58 Then they called Rebekah and said to her, “Will you go with this man?” And she said, “I will go.”" 
Genesis24:59 Thus they sent away their sister Rebekah and her nurse with Abraham’s servant and his men. 
Genesis24:60 And they blessed Rebekah and said to her, “May you, our sister, Become thousands of ten thousands, And may your seed possess The gate of those who hate him.”" 
Genesis24:61 Then Rebekah arose with her young women, and they mounted the camels and went after the man. So the servant took Rebekah and went." 
Genesis24:62 Now Isaac had come from going to Beer-lahai-roi, for he was living in the land of the Negev." 
Genesis24:63 And Isaac went out to muse in the field toward evening; and he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, camels were coming." 
Genesis24:64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes and saw Isaac and dismounted from the camel. 
Genesis24:65 Then she said to the servant, “Who is that man walking in the field to meet us?” And the servant said, “He is my master.” Then she took her veil and covered herself." 
Genesis24:66 And the servant recounted to Isaac all the things that he had done. 
Genesis24:67 Then Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent, and he took Rebekah, and she became his wife, and he loved her. Thus, Isaac was comforted after his mother’s death." 
Genesis25:1 Now Abraham took another wife, whose name was Keturah." 
Genesis25:2 And she bore to him Zimran and Jokshan and Medan and Midian and Ishbak and Shuah. 
Genesis25:3 Now Jokshan was the father of Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim and Letushim and Leummim. 
Genesis25:4 And the sons of Midian were Ephah and Epher and Hanoch and Abida and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah. 
Genesis25:5 And Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac; 
Genesis25:6 but to the sons of the concubines which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts while he was still living, and he sent them away from his son Isaac eastward, to the land of the east." 
Genesis25:7 These are the days of the years of Abraham’s life that he lived, 175 years." 
Genesis25:8 And Abraham breathed his last and died in a good old age, an old man and full of days; and he was gathered to his people." 
Genesis25:9 Then his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, facing Mamre," 
Genesis25:10 the field which Abraham bought from the sons of Heth; there Abraham was buried with Sarah his wife. 
Genesis25:11 Now it happened after the death of Abraham, that God blessed his son Isaac; and Isaac lived by Beer-lahai-roi." 
Genesis25:12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s servant-woman, bore to Abraham;" 
Genesis25:13 and these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, in the order of their birth: Nebaioth, the firstborn of Ishmael, and Kedar and Adbeel and Mibsam" 
Genesis25:14 and Mishma and Dumah and Massa," 
Genesis25:15 Hadad and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah." 
Genesis25:16 These are the sons of Ishmael and these are their names, by their villages, and by their camps; twelve princes according to their tribes." 
Genesis25:17 These are the years of the life of Ishmael, 137 years; and he breathed his last and died and was gathered to his people." 
Genesis25:18 And they dwelt from Havilah to Shur which is east of Egypt as one goes toward Assyria; he settled in the face of all his brothers. 
Genesis25:19 Now these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham’s son: Abraham became the father of Isaac;" 
Genesis25:20 and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramean of Paddan-aram, the sister of Laban the Aramean, to be his wife." 
Genesis25:21 And Isaac entreated Yahweh on behalf of his wife because she was barren; and Yahweh was moved by his entreaty. So Rebekah his wife conceived. 
Genesis25:22 But the children struggled together within her; and she said, “If it is so, why then am I this way?” So she went to inquire of Yahweh." 
Genesis25:23 And Yahweh said to her, “Two nations are in your womb; And two peoples will be separated from your body; And one people shall be stronger than the other; And the older shall serve the younger.”" 
Genesis25:24 And her days to give birth were fulfilled, and behold, there were twins in her womb." 
Genesis25:25 And the first came forth red, all over like a hairy garment; and they named him Esau." 
Genesis25:26 Afterward his brother came forth with his hand holding on to Esau’s heel, so his name was called Jacob; and Isaac was sixty years old when she gave birth to them." 
Genesis25:27 And the boys grew up; Esau became a skillful hunter, a man of the field, but Jacob was a peaceful man, living in tents." 
Genesis25:28 Isaac loved Esau because he had an appetite for hunted game, but Rebekah loved Jacob." 
Genesis25:29 And Jacob had cooked stew. And Esau came in from the field, and he was famished." 
Genesis25:30 Then Esau said to Jacob, “Please give me a swallow from the red stuff—this red stuff, for I am famished.” Therefore his name was called Edom." 
Genesis25:31 But Jacob said, “First sell me your birthright.”" 
Genesis25:32 And Esau said, “Behold, I am about to die; so of what use then is the birthright to me?”" 
Genesis25:33 And Jacob said, “First swear to me”; so he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob." 
Genesis25:34 So Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil stew; and he ate and drank and rose and went away. Thus Esau despised his birthright. 
Genesis26:1 Now there was a famine in the land, besides the previous famine that had occurred in the days of Abraham. So Isaac went to Gerar, to Abimelech king of the Philistines." 
Genesis26:2 And Yahweh appeared to him and said, “Do not go down to Egypt; dwell in the land of which I shall tell you." 
Genesis26:3 Sojourn in this land, and I will be with you and bless you, for to you and to your seed I will give all these lands, and I will establish the oath which I swore to your father Abraham." 
Genesis26:4 And I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and I will give your seed all these lands; and by your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed;" 
Genesis26:5 because Abraham listened to My voice and kept My charge, My commandments, My statutes, and My laws.”" 
Genesis26:6 So Isaac lived in Gerar. 
Genesis26:7 Then the men of the place asked about his wife. And he said, “She is my sister,” for he was afraid to say, “my wife,” thinking, “lest the men of the place kill me on account of Rebekah, for she is beautiful in appearance.”" 
Genesis26:8 Now it happened, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out through a window and saw, and behold, Isaac was caressing his wife Rebekah." 
Genesis26:9 Then Abimelech called Isaac and said, “Behold, surely she is your wife! How then did you say, ‘She is my sister’?” And Isaac said to him, “Because I said, ‘Lest I die on account of her.’”" 
Genesis26:10 And Abimelech said, “What is this you have done to us? One of the people might easily have lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us.”" 
Genesis26:11 So Abimelech commanded all the people, saying, “He who touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.”" 
Genesis26:12 And Isaac sowed in that land and reaped in the same year one hundredfold. And Yahweh blessed him," 
Genesis26:13 and the man became great and continued to grow greater until he became very great; 
Genesis26:14 and he had possessions of flocks and possessions of herds and many servants, so that the Philistines were jealous of him." 
Genesis26:15 Now all the wells which his father’s servants had dug in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines stopped up by filling them with earth." 
Genesis26:16 Then Abimelech said to Isaac, “Go away from us, for you are too mighty for us.”" 
Genesis26:17 And Isaac departed from there and camped in the valley of Gerar and settled there. 
Genesis26:18 Then Isaac dug again the wells of water which had been dug in the days of his father Abraham, but the Philistines had stopped them up after the death of Abraham; and he called them by the same names by which his father had called them." 
Genesis26:19 Then Isaac’s servants dug in the valley and found there a well of flowing water. 
Genesis26:20 And the herdsmen of Gerar contended with the herdsmen of Isaac, saying, “The water is ours!” So he named the well Esek, because they quarreled with him." 
Genesis26:21 Then they dug another well, and they contended over it also, so he called it Sitnah." 
Genesis26:22 Then he moved away from there and dug another well, and they did not contend over it; so he named it Rehoboth, and he said, “At last Yahweh has made room for us, and we will be fruitful in the land.”" 
Genesis26:23 And he went up from there to Beersheba. 
Genesis26:24 And Yahweh appeared to him that night and said, “I am the God of your father Abraham; Do not fear, for I am with you. I will bless you and multiply your seed, For the sake of My servant Abraham.”" 
Genesis26:25 So he built an altar there and called upon the name of Yahweh and pitched his tent there; and there Isaac’s servants dug out a well. 
Genesis26:26 Now Abimelech came to him from Gerar with his adviser Ahuzzath and Phicol the commander of his army. 
Genesis26:27 And Isaac said to them, “Why have you come to me, since you hate me and have sent me away from you?”" 
Genesis26:28 Then they said, “We see plainly that Yahweh has been with you; so we said, ‘Let there now be an oath between us—between you and us—and let us cut a covenant with you," 
Genesis26:29 that you will do us no harm, just as we have not touched you and have done to you nothing but good and have sent you away in peace. You are now the blessed of Yahweh.’”" 
Genesis26:30 Then he made them a feast, and they ate and drank." 
Genesis26:31 In the morning they arose early, and each swore to the other; then Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace." 
Genesis26:32 Now it happened on that day, that Isaac’s servants came in and told him about the well which they had dug and said to him, “We have found water.”" 
Genesis26:33 So he called it Shibah; therefore the name of the city is Beersheba to this day. 
Genesis26:34 And Esau was forty years old, and he took as a wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and also Basemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite;" 
Genesis26:35 and they brought bitterness to Isaac and Rebekah. 
Genesis27:1 Now it happened that when Isaac was old and his eyes were too dim to see, that he called his older son Esau and said to him, “My son.” And he said to him, “Here I am.”" 
Genesis27:2 And Isaac said, “Behold now, I am old, and I do not know the day of my death." 
Genesis27:3 So now, please take up your gear, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field and hunt game for me;" 
Genesis27:4 and prepare a savory dish for me such as I love, and bring it to me that I may eat, so that my soul may bless you before I die.”" 
Genesis27:5 Now Rebekah was listening while Isaac was speaking to his son Esau. Then Esau went to the field to hunt for game to bring to Isaac. 
Genesis27:6 But Rebekah spoke to her son Jacob, saying, “Behold, I heard your father speaking to your brother Esau, saying," 
Genesis27:7 ‘Bring me some game and prepare a savory dish for me, that I may eat and bless you in the presence of Yahweh before my death.’" 
Genesis27:8 So now, my son, listen to my voice as I command you." 
Genesis27:9 Go now to the flock and get for me two choice young goats from there, that I may prepare them as a savory dish for your father, such as he loves." 
Genesis27:10 Then you shall bring it to your father, that he may eat, so that he may bless you before his death.”" 
Genesis27:11 Then Jacob answered his mother Rebekah, “Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man." 
Genesis27:12 Perhaps my father will feel me, then I will be as a mocker in his sight, and I will bring upon myself a curse and not a blessing.”" 
Genesis27:13 But his mother said to him, “Your curse be on me, my son; only listen to my voice, and go, get them for me.”" 
Genesis27:14 So he went and got them and brought them to his mother; and his mother made a savory dish such as his father loved. 
Genesis27:15 Then Rebekah took the best garments of Esau her elder son, which were with her in the house, and she put them on Jacob her younger son." 
Genesis27:16 And she put the skins of the young goats on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck. 
Genesis27:17 She also gave the savory dish and the bread, which she had prepared into the hand of her son Jacob." 
Genesis27:18 Then he came to his father and said, “My father.” And he said, “Here I am. Who are you, my son?”" 
Genesis27:19 And Jacob said to his father, “I am Esau your firstborn; I have done as you told me. Rise up, please, sit and eat of my game, that your soul may bless me.”" 
Genesis27:20 Then Isaac said to his son, “How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son?” And he said, “Because Yahweh your God caused it to happen to me.”" 
Genesis27:21 Then Isaac said to Jacob, “Please come near, that I may feel you, my son, whether you are really my son Esau or not.”" 
Genesis27:22 So Jacob came near to Isaac his father, and he felt him and said, “The voice is the voice of Jacob, but the hands are the hands of Esau.”" 
Genesis27:23 And he did not recognize him because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau’s hands; so he blessed him. 
Genesis27:24 And he said, “Are you really my son Esau?” And he said, “I am.”" 
Genesis27:25 So he said, “Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son’s game, that my soul may bless you.” And he brought it near to him, and he ate; he also brought him wine, and he drank." 
Genesis27:26 Then his father Isaac said to him, “Please come near and kiss me, my son.”" 
Genesis27:27 So he came near and kissed him; and he smelled the smell of his garments, and then he blessed him and said, “See, the smell of my son Is like the smell of a field which Yahweh has blessed;" 
Genesis27:28 Now may God give you of the dew of heaven, And of the fatness of the earth, And an abundance of grain and new wine;" 
Genesis27:29 May peoples serve you, And nations bow down to you; Be master of your brothers, And may your mother’s sons bow down to you. Cursed be those who curse you, And blessed be those who bless you.”" 
Genesis27:30 Now it happened that as soon as Isaac had finished blessing Jacob, and Jacob had hardly gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting." 
Genesis27:31 Then he also made a savory dish and brought it to his father; and he said to his father, “Let my father arise and eat of his son’s game, that your soul may bless me.”" 
Genesis27:32 And Isaac his father said to him, “Who are you?” And he said, “I am your son, your firstborn, Esau.”" 
Genesis27:33 Then Isaac trembled exceedingly violently and said, “Who was he then that hunted game and brought it to me, so that I ate of all of it before you came and blessed him? Indeed, he shall be blessed.”" 
Genesis27:34 As Esau heard the words of his father, he cried out with an exceedingly great and bitter cry and said to his father, “Bless me, me also, O my father!”" 
Genesis27:35 And he said, “Your brother came deceitfully and has taken away your blessing.”" 
Genesis27:36 Then he said, “Is he not rightly named Jacob, for he has supplanted me these two times? He took away my birthright, and behold, now he has taken away my blessing.” And he said, “Have you not reserved a blessing for me?”" 
Genesis27:37 But Isaac answered and said to Esau, “Behold, I have made him your master, and all his fellow brothers I have given to him as servants; and with grain and new wine I have sustained him. Now as for you then, what can I do, my son?”" 
Genesis27:38 And Esau said to his father, “Do you have only one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father.” So Esau lifted his voice and wept." 
Genesis27:39 Then Isaac his father answered and said to him, “Behold, away from the fatness of the earth shall be your habitation, And away from the dew of heaven from above." 
Genesis27:40 By your sword you shall live, And your brother you shall serve; But it shall be when you become restless, That you will break his yoke from your neck.”" 
Genesis27:41 So Esau bore a grudge against Jacob because of the blessing with which his father had blessed him; and Esau said in his heart, “The days of mourning for my father are near; then I will kill my brother Jacob.”" 
Genesis27:42 Then the words of her elder son Esau were told to Rebekah. So she sent and called her younger son Jacob and said to him, “Behold, your brother Esau is consoling himself concerning you by planning to kill you." 
Genesis27:43 So now, my son, listen to my voice, and arise, flee to Haran, to my brother Laban!" 
Genesis27:44 Stay with him a few days, until your brother’s wrath subsides," 
Genesis27:45 until your brother’s anger against you subsides and he forgets what you did to him. Then I will send and get you from there. Why should I be bereaved of you both in one day?” 
Genesis27:46 Then Rebekah said to Isaac, “I am tired of living because of the daughters of Heth; if Jacob takes a wife from the daughters of Heth, like these, from the daughters of the land, what good will my life be to me?”" 
Genesis28:1 So Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and commanded him and said to him, “You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan." 
Genesis28:2 Arise, go to Paddan-aram, to the house of Bethuel your mother’s father; and from there take to yourself a wife from the daughters of Laban your mother’s brother." 
Genesis28:3 May God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you, that you may become an assembly of peoples." 
Genesis28:4 May He also give you the blessing of Abraham, to you and to your seed with you, that you may possess the land of your sojournings, which God gave to Abraham.”" 
Genesis28:5 Then Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Paddan-aram to Laban, son of Bethuel the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, the mother of Jacob and Esau." 
Genesis28:6 And Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Paddan-aram to take for himself a wife from there, and that when he blessed him he commanded him, saying, “You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan,”" 
Genesis28:7 and that Jacob had listened to his father and his mother and had gone to Paddan-aram. 
Genesis28:8 So Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan were displeasing in the sight of his father Isaac; 
Genesis28:9 and Esau went to Ishmael and took Mahalath, the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, the sister of Nebaioth, to be his wife, besides the wives that he had." 
Genesis28:10 Then Jacob departed from Beersheba and went toward Haran. 
Genesis28:11 And he reached a certain place and spent the night there because the sun had set; and he took one of the stones of the place and put it under his head and lay down in that place. 
Genesis28:12 Then he had a dream, and behold, a ladder stood on the earth with its top touching heaven; and behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it." 
Genesis28:13 And behold, Yahweh stood above it and said, “I am Yahweh, the God of your father Abraham and the God of Isaac; the land on which you lie, I will give it to you and to your seed." 
Genesis28:14 And your seed will also be like the dust of the earth, and you will spread out to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south; and in you and in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed." 
Genesis28:15 Behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go. And I will bring you back to this land; for I will not forsake you until I have done what I have promised you.”" 
Genesis28:16 Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, “Surely Yahweh is in this place, and I did not know it.”" 
Genesis28:17 And he was afraid and said, “How fearsome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.”" 
Genesis28:18 So Jacob rose early in the morning and took the stone that he had put under his head and set it up as a pillar and poured oil on its top. 
Genesis28:19 And he called the name of that place Bethel; however, previously the name of the city had been Luz." 
Genesis28:20 Then Jacob made a vow, saying, “If God will be with me and will keep me on this journey on which I am going, and will give me food to eat and garments to wear," 
Genesis28:21 and I return to my father’s house in peace, then Yahweh will be my God." 
Genesis28:22 Now this stone, which I have set up as a pillar, will be God’s house, and of all that You give me I will surely give a tenth to You.”" 
Genesis29:1 Then Jacob took up his journey and came to the land of the sons of the east. 
Genesis29:2 And he looked, and behold, a well in the field, and behold, three flocks of sheep were lying there beside it, for from that well they gave water to the flocks to drink. Now the stone on the mouth of the well was large." 
Genesis29:3 And all the flocks would be gathered there, and they would roll the stone from the mouth of the well and give water to the sheep to drink and return the stone back to its place on the mouth of the well." 
Genesis29:4 And Jacob said to them, “My brothers, where are you from?” And they said, “We are from Haran.”" 
Genesis29:5 Then he said to them, “Do you know Laban the son of Nahor?” And they said, “We know him.”" 
Genesis29:6 And he said to them, “Is it well with him?” And they said, “It is well, and here is Rachel his daughter coming with the sheep.”" 
Genesis29:7 And he said, “Behold, it is still high day; it is not time for the livestock to be gathered. Give water to the sheep to drink, and go, pasture them.”" 
Genesis29:8 But they said, “We cannot, until all the flocks are gathered, and they roll the stone from the mouth of the well; then we give water to the sheep to drink.”" 
Genesis29:9 While he was still speaking with them, Rachel came with her father’s sheep, for she was a shepherdess." 
Genesis29:10 Now it happened, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother’s brother and the sheep of Laban his mother’s brother, Jacob came near and rolled the stone from the mouth of the well and gave water to the flock of Laban his mother’s brother to drink." 
Genesis29:11 Then Jacob kissed Rachel and lifted his voice and wept. 
Genesis29:12 And Jacob told Rachel that he was a relative of her father and that he was Rebekah’s son, and she ran and told her father." 
Genesis29:13 So it happened that when Laban heard the report of Jacob his sister’s son, he ran to meet him, and he embraced him and kissed him and brought him to his house. Then he recounted to Laban all these things." 
Genesis29:14 And Laban said to him, “Surely you are my bone and my flesh.” And he stayed with him one month." 
Genesis29:15 Then Laban said to Jacob, “Because you are my relative, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me, what shall your wages be?”" 
Genesis29:16 Now Laban had two daughters; the name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel." 
Genesis29:17 And Leah’s eyes were weak, but Rachel was beautiful in form and beautiful in appearance." 
Genesis29:18 Now Jacob loved Rachel, so he said, “I will serve you seven years for your younger daughter Rachel.”" 
Genesis29:19 And Laban said, “It is better that I give her to you than to give her to another man; stay with me.”" 
Genesis29:20 So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they were in his sight but a few days because of his love for her." 
Genesis29:21 Then Jacob said to Laban, “Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in to her.”" 
Genesis29:22 And Laban gathered all the men of the place and made a feast. 
Genesis29:23 Now it happened in the evening that he took his daughter Leah and brought her to him; and Jacob went in to her. 
Genesis29:24 Laban also gave his servant-woman Zilpah to his daughter Leah as a servant-woman. 
Genesis29:25 Now it happened in the morning that, behold, it was Leah! And he said to Laban, “What is this you have done to me? Was it not for Rachel that I served with you? Why then have you deceived me?”" 
Genesis29:26 But Laban said, “It is not the practice in our place to give the younger before the firstborn." 
Genesis29:27 Fulfill the week of this one, and we will give you the other also for the service which you shall serve with me for another seven years.”" 
Genesis29:28 And Jacob did so and fulfilled her week, and he gave him his daughter Rachel as his wife." 
Genesis29:29 Laban also gave his servant-woman Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as her servant-woman. 
Genesis29:30 So Jacob went in to Rachel also, and indeed he loved Rachel more than Leah, and he served with Laban for another seven years." 
Genesis29:31 And Yahweh saw that Leah was unloved, and He opened her womb, but Rachel was barren." 
Genesis29:32 So Leah conceived and bore a son and named him Reuben, for she said, “Because Yahweh has seen my affliction; surely now my husband will love me.”" 
Genesis29:33 Then she conceived again and bore a son and said, “Because Yahweh has heard that I am unloved, He has therefore given me this son also.” So she named him Simeon." 
Genesis29:34 And she conceived again and bore a son and said, “Now this time my husband will be joined to me because I have borne him three sons.” Therefore he was named Levi." 
Genesis29:35 And she conceived again and bore a son and said, “This time I will praise Yahweh.” Therefore she named him Judah. Then she stopped bearing." 
Genesis30:1 Then Rachel saw that she bore Jacob no children, so she became jealous of her sister; and she said to Jacob, “Give me children, or else I die.”" 
Genesis30:2 Then Jacob’s anger burned against Rachel, and he said, “Am I in the place of God, who has withheld from you the fruit of the womb?”" 
Genesis30:3 And she said, “Here is my maidservant Bilhah, go in to her that she may bear on my knees, that through her I too may obtain children.”" 
Genesis30:4 So she gave him her servant-woman Bilhah as a wife, and Jacob went in to her." 
Genesis30:5 And Bilhah conceived and bore Jacob a son. 
Genesis30:6 Then Rachel said, “God has rendered justice to me and has indeed listened to my voice and has given me a son.” Therefore she named him Dan." 
Genesis30:7 And Rachel’s servant-woman Bilhah conceived again and bore Jacob a second son. 
Genesis30:8 So Rachel said, “With mighty wrestlings I have wrestled with my sister, and I have indeed prevailed.” And she named him Naphtali." 
Genesis30:9 Then Leah saw that she had stopped bearing, so she took her servant-woman Zilpah and gave her to Jacob as a wife." 
Genesis30:10 And Leah’s servant-woman Zilpah bore Jacob a son. 
Genesis30:11 Then Leah said, “How fortunate!” So she named him Gad." 
Genesis30:12 And Leah’s servant-woman Zilpah bore Jacob a second son. 
Genesis30:13 Then Leah said, “Happy am I! For women will call me happy.” So she named him Asher." 
Genesis30:14 And in the days of the wheat harvest, Reuben went and found mandrakes in the field and brought them to his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, “Please give me some of your son’s mandrakes.”" 
Genesis30:15 But she said to her, “Is it a small matter for you to take my husband? And would you take my son’s mandrakes also?” So Rachel said, “Therefore he will lie with you tonight in return for your son’s mandrakes.”" 
Genesis30:16 Then Jacob came in from the field in the evening. And Leah went out to meet him and said, “You must come in to me, for I have surely hired you with my son’s mandrakes.” So he lay with her that night." 
Genesis30:17 And God listened to Leah, and she conceived and bore Jacob a fifth son." 
Genesis30:18 And Leah said, “God has given me my wages because I gave my servant-woman to my husband.” So she named him Issachar." 
Genesis30:19 Then Leah conceived again and bore a sixth son to Jacob. 
Genesis30:20 And Leah said, “God has gifted me a good gift; this time my husband will honor me because I have borne him six sons.” So she named him Zebulun." 
Genesis30:21 Afterward she bore a daughter and named her Dinah. 
Genesis30:22 Then God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her and opened her womb." 
Genesis30:23 So she conceived and bore a son and said, “God has taken away my reproach.”" 
Genesis30:24 And she named him Joseph, saying, “May Yahweh give me another son.”" 
Genesis30:25 Now it happened when Rachel had borne Joseph, that Jacob said to Laban, “Send me away, that I may go to my own place and to my own land." 
Genesis30:26 Give me my wives and my children for whom I have served you, and let me go; for you yourself know my service which I have rendered you.”" 
Genesis30:27 But Laban said to him, “If now I have found favor in your sight, stay with me; I have interpreted an omen that Yahweh has blessed me on your account.”" 
Genesis30:28 And he continued to say, “Name me your wages, and I will give it.”" 
Genesis30:29 But he said to him, “You yourself know how I have served you and how your livestock have fared with me." 
Genesis30:30 For you had little before I came, but it has spread out to a multitude, and Yahweh has blessed you at every step of mine. But now, when shall I provide for my own household also?”" 
Genesis30:31 So he said, “What shall I give you?” And Jacob said, “You shall not give me anything. If you will do this one thing for me, I will again pasture and keep your flock:" 
Genesis30:32 let me pass through your entire flock today, removing from there every speckled and spotted sheep and every black one among the lambs and the spotted and speckled among the goats; and such shall be my wages." 
Genesis30:33 So my righteousness will answer for me later, when you come concerning my wages. Every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats and black among the lambs, if found with me, will be considered stolen.”" 
Genesis30:34 And Laban said, “Behold, let it be according to your word.”" 
Genesis30:35 So he removed on that day the striped and spotted male goats and all the speckled and spotted female goats, every one with white in it, and all the black ones among the sheep, and gave them into the care of his sons." 
Genesis30:36 And he put a distance of three days’ journey between himself and Jacob, and Jacob was pasturing the rest of Laban’s flocks." 
Genesis30:37 Then Jacob took fresh rods of poplar and almond and plane trees, and he peeled white stripes in them, exposing the white which was in the rods." 
Genesis30:38 And he set the rods which he had peeled in front of the flocks in the trough, that is, in the watering channels, where the flocks came to drink; and they mated when they came to drink." 
Genesis30:39 So the flocks mated by the rods, and the flocks brought forth striped, speckled, and spotted." 
Genesis30:40 And Jacob separated the lambs, and he made the flocks face toward the striped and all the black in the flock of Laban; and he set his own herds apart and did not set them with Laban’s flock." 
Genesis30:41 Now it would be that, whenever the stronger of the flock were mating, Jacob would place the rods in the sight of the flock in the trough, so that they might mate by the rods;" 
Genesis30:42 but when the flock was feeble, he did not put them in; so the feebler were Laban’s and the stronger Jacob’s." 
Genesis30:43 So the man spread out exceedingly and had large flocks and female and male servants and camels and donkeys. 
Genesis31:1 Then Jacob heard the words of Laban’s sons, saying, “Jacob has taken away all that belonged to our father, and from what belonged to our father he has made all this wealth.”" 
Genesis31:2 And Jacob saw the face of Laban, and behold, it was not friendly toward him as formerly." 
Genesis31:3 Then Yahweh said to Jacob, “Return to the land of your fathers and to your kin, and I will be with you.”" 
Genesis31:4 So Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to his flock in the field," 
Genesis31:5 and he said to them, “I see your father’s face, that it is not friendly toward me as formerly, but the God of my father has been with me." 
Genesis31:6 You also know that I have served your father with all my power. 
Genesis31:7 Yet your father has cheated me and changed my wages ten times; however, God did not allow him to harm me." 
Genesis31:8 If he spoke thus, ‘The speckled shall be your wages,’ then all the flock bore speckled; and if he spoke thus, ‘The striped shall be your wages,’ then all the flock bore striped." 
Genesis31:9 Thus God has delivered your father’s livestock and given them to me. 
Genesis31:10 Now it happened at the time when the flock were mating that I lifted up my eyes and saw in a dream, and behold, the male goats which were mating were striped, speckled, and mottled." 
Genesis31:11 Then the angel of God said to me in the dream, ‘Jacob,’ and I said, ‘Here I am.’" 
Genesis31:12 He said, ‘Lift up now your eyes and see that all the male goats which are mating are striped, speckled, and mottled; for I have seen all that Laban has been doing to you." 
Genesis31:13 I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed a pillar, where you made a vow to Me; now arise, leave this land, and return to the land of your kin.’”" 
Genesis31:14 Then Rachel and Leah said to him, “Do we still have any portion or inheritance in our father’s house?" 
Genesis31:15 Are we not counted by him as foreigners? For he has sold us and has also entirely consumed our purchase price. 
Genesis31:16 Surely all the riches which God has delivered over to us from our father belong to us and our children; now then, do whatever God has said to you.”" 
Genesis31:17 Then Jacob arose and put his children and his wives upon camels; 
Genesis31:18 and he drove away all his livestock and all his possessions which he had accumulated, his acquired livestock which he had accumulated in Paddan-aram, in order to go to the land of Canaan to his father Isaac." 
Genesis31:19 Now Laban had gone to shear his flock. Then Rachel stole the household idols that were her father’s. 
Genesis31:20 And Jacob deceived Laban the Aramean by not telling him that he was fleeing. 
Genesis31:21 So he fled with all that he had; and he arose and crossed the River and set his face toward the hill country of Gilead. 
Genesis31:22 Then it was told to Laban on the third day that Jacob had fled; 
Genesis31:23 so he took his relatives with him and pursued him a distance of seven days’ journey, and he overtook him in the hill country of Gilead." 
Genesis31:24 And God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream of the night and said to him, “Beware lest you speak to Jacob either good or bad.”" 
Genesis31:25 So Laban caught up with Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the hill country, and Laban with his relatives camped in the hill country of Gilead." 
Genesis31:26 Then Laban said to Jacob, “What have you done by deceiving me and carrying away my daughters like captives of the sword?" 
Genesis31:27 Why did you flee secretly and deceive me and not tell me—so that I might have sent you away with gladness and with songs, with tambourine and with lyre—" 
Genesis31:28 and not allow me to kiss my sons and my daughters? Now you have acted foolishly. 
Genesis31:29 It is in my hand to do evil against you, but the God of your father spoke to me last night, saying, ‘Beware of speaking either good or evil to Jacob.’" 
Genesis31:30 So now you have indeed gone away because you longed greatly for your father’s house; but why did you steal my gods?” 
Genesis31:31 Then Jacob answered and said to Laban, “Because I was afraid, because I said, ‘Lest you take your daughters from me by force.’" 
Genesis31:32 The one with whom you find your gods shall not live; in the presence of our relatives recognize what is yours among my belongings and take it for yourself.” But Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen them. 
Genesis31:33 So Laban went into Jacob’s tent and into Leah’s tent and into the tent of the two maidservants, but he did not find them. Then he went out of Leah’s tent and entered Rachel’s tent." 
Genesis31:34 Now Rachel had taken the household idols and put them in the camel’s saddle, and she sat on them. And Laban felt through all the tent but did not find them." 
Genesis31:35 And she said to her father, “Let not my lord be angry that I cannot rise before you, for the manner of women is upon me.” So he searched but did not find the household idols." 
Genesis31:36 Then Jacob became angry and contended with Laban; and Jacob answered and said to Laban, “What is my transgression? What is my sin that you have hotly pursued me?" 
Genesis31:37 Though you have felt through all my goods, what have you found of all your household goods? Place it here before my relatives and your relatives, that they may decide between us two." 
Genesis31:38 These twenty years I have been with you; your ewes and your female goats have not miscarried, nor have I eaten the rams of your flocks." 
Genesis31:39 That which was torn of beasts I did not bring to you; I bore the loss of it myself. You required it of my hand whether stolen by day or stolen by night. 
Genesis31:40 Thus I was: by day the heat consumed me and the frost by night, and my sleep fled from my eyes." 
Genesis31:41 These twenty years I have been in your house; I served you fourteen years for your two daughters and six years for your flock, and you changed my wages ten times." 
Genesis31:42 If the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the dread of Isaac, had not been for me, surely now you would have sent me away empty. God has seen my affliction and the toil of my hands, so He rendered the decision last night.”" 
Genesis31:43 Then Laban answered and said to Jacob, “The daughters are my daughters, and the children are my children, and the flocks are my flocks, and all that you see is mine. But what can I do this day to these daughters of mine or to their children whom they have borne?" 
Genesis31:44 So now come, let us cut a covenant, you and I, and let it be a witness between you and me.”" 
Genesis31:45 Then Jacob took a stone and raised it up as a pillar. 
Genesis31:46 And Jacob said to his relatives, “Gather stones.” So they took stones and made a heap, and they ate there by the heap." 
Genesis31:47 And Laban called it Jegar-sahadutha, but Jacob called it Galeed." 
Genesis31:48 Then Laban said, “This heap is a witness between you and me this day.” Therefore it was named Galeed," 
Genesis31:49 and Mizpah, for he said, “May Yahweh watch between you and me when we are absent one from the other." 
Genesis31:50 If you afflict my daughters, or if you take wives besides my daughters, although no man is with us, see, God is witness between you and me.”" 
Genesis31:51 And Laban said to Jacob, “Behold this heap and behold the pillar which I have set between you and me." 
Genesis31:52 This heap is a witness, and the pillar is a witness, that I will not pass by this heap to you for harm, and you will not pass by this heap and this pillar to me for harm." 
Genesis31:53 The God of Abraham and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge between us.” So Jacob swore by the dread of his father Isaac." 
Genesis31:54 Then Jacob offered a sacrifice on the mountain and called his relatives to eat a meal; and they ate the meal and spent the night on the mountain. 
Genesis31:55 And Laban arose early in the morning and kissed his sons and his daughters and blessed them. Then Laban departed and returned to his place. 
Genesis32:1 Now Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him." 
Genesis32:2 Then Jacob said when he saw them, “This is God’s camp.” So he named that place Mahanaim." 
Genesis32:3 Then Jacob sent messengers before him to his brother Esau in the land of Seir, the country of Edom." 
Genesis32:4 He also commanded them saying, “Thus you shall say to my lord, to Esau: ‘Thus says your servant Jacob, “I have sojourned with Laban and have been delayed until now;" 
Genesis32:5 and I have oxen and donkeys and flocks and male and female slaves; and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find favor in your sight.”’”" 
Genesis32:6 Then the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, “We came to your brother, to Esau, and furthermore he is coming to meet you, and four hundred men are with him.”" 
Genesis32:7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed; and he divided the people who were with him, and the flocks and the herds and the camels, into two camps." 
Genesis32:8 And he said, “If Esau comes to the one camp and strikes it, then the camp which remains will escape.”" 
Genesis32:9 And Jacob said, “O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O Yahweh, who said to me, ‘Return to your land and to your kin, and I will prosper you,’" 
Genesis32:10 I am unworthy of all the lovingkindness and of all the truth which You have shown to Your slave; for with my staff only I crossed this Jordan, and now I have become two camps." 
Genesis32:11 Deliver me, I pray, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau; for I fear him, lest he come and strike me down with the mothers and the children." 
Genesis32:12 For You said, ‘I will surely prosper you and make your seed as the sand of the sea, which is too great to be numbered.’”" 
Genesis32:13 So he spent the night there. Then he took from what he had with him a present for his brother Esau: 
Genesis32:14 two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams," 
Genesis32:15 thirty milking camels and their colts, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten male donkeys." 
Genesis32:16 And he gave them into the hand of his servants, every flock by itself, and said to his servants, “Pass on before me and put a space between flocks.”" 
Genesis32:17 And he commanded the first one in front, saying, “When my brother Esau meets you and asks you, saying, ‘To whom do you belong, and where are you going, and to whom do these animals in front of you belong?’" 
Genesis32:18 then you shall say, ‘These belong to your servant Jacob; it is a present sent to my lord, to Esau. And behold, he also is behind us.’”" 
Genesis32:19 Then he commanded also the second and the third and all those who followed the flocks, saying, “After this manner you shall speak to Esau when you find him;" 
Genesis32:20 and you shall say, ‘Behold, your servant Jacob also is behind us.’” For he said, “I will appease his face with the present that goes before me. Then afterward I will see his face; perhaps he will lift up my face.”" 
Genesis32:21 So the present passed on before him, while he himself spent that night in the camp." 
Genesis32:22 And he arose that same night and took his two wives and his two servant-women and his eleven children and crossed the ford of the Jabbok. 
Genesis32:23 And he took them and sent them across the stream. And he sent across whatever he had. 
Genesis32:24 Then Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until the breaking of dawn." 
Genesis32:25 And he saw that he had not prevailed against him, so he touched the socket of his thigh; and so the socket of Jacob’s thigh was dislocated while he wrestled with him." 
Genesis32:26 Then he said, “Let me go, for the dawn is breaking.” But he said, “I will not let you go unless you bless me.”" 
Genesis32:27 So he said to him, “What is your name?” And he said, “Jacob.”" 
Genesis32:28 Then He said, “Your name shall no longer be Jacob, but Israel; for you have striven with God and with men and have prevailed.”" 
Genesis32:29 Then Jacob asked him and said, “Please tell me your name.” But he said, “Why is it that you ask my name?” And he blessed him there." 
Genesis32:30 So Jacob named the place Peniel, for he said, “I have seen God face to face, yet my life has been delivered.”" 
Genesis32:31 And the sun rose upon him just as he crossed over Penuel, and he was limping on his thigh." 
Genesis32:32 Therefore, to this day the sons of Israel do not eat the sinew of the hip which is on the socket of the thigh because he touched the socket of Jacob’s thigh in the sinew of the hip." 
Genesis33:1 Then Jacob lifted up his eyes and saw, and behold, Esau was coming, and four hundred men with him. So he divided the children among Leah and Rachel and the two servant-women." 
Genesis33:2 And he put the servant-women and their children first, and Leah and her children after them, and Rachel and Joseph after them." 
Genesis33:3 But he himself passed on ahead of them and bowed down to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother." 
Genesis33:4 Then Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept." 
Genesis33:5 And he lifted up his eyes and saw the women and the children and said, “Who are these with you?” And he said, “The children whom God has graciously given your servant.”" 
Genesis33:6 Then the servant-women came near with their children, and they bowed down." 
Genesis33:7 Leah likewise came near with her children, and they bowed down; and afterward Joseph came near with Rachel, and they bowed down." 
Genesis33:8 And he said, “What do you mean by all these camps which I have met?” And he said, “To find favor in the sight of my lord.”" 
Genesis33:9 But Esau said, “I have plenty, my brother; let what you have be your own.”" 
Genesis33:10 And Jacob said, “No, please, if now I have found favor in your sight, then take my present from my hand, for I see your face as one sees the face of God, and you have received me favorably." 
Genesis33:11 Please take my blessing which has been brought to you, because God has dealt graciously with me and because I have everything.” Thus he urged him, and he took it." 
Genesis33:12 Then Esau said, “Let us take our journey and go, and I will go before you.”" 
Genesis33:13 But he said to him, “My lord knows that the children are weak and that the flocks and herds which are nursing are a care to me. And if they are driven hard one day, all the flocks will die." 
Genesis33:14 Please let my lord pass on before his servant, and I will lead on slowly, according to the pace of the cattle that are before me and according to the pace of the children, until I come to my lord at Seir.”" 
Genesis33:15 Then Esau said, “Please let me leave with you some of the people who are with me.” But he said, “Why do this? Let me find favor in the sight of my lord.”" 
Genesis33:16 So Esau returned that day on his way to Seir. 
Genesis33:17 But Jacob journeyed to Succoth and built for himself a house and made booths for his livestock; therefore the place is named Succoth. 
Genesis33:18 Now Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Paddan-aram, and he camped before the city." 
Genesis33:19 Then he bought a portion of a field where he had pitched his tent from the hand of the sons of Hamor, Shechem’s father, for one hundred qesitah." 
Genesis33:20 Then he set up there an altar and called it El-Elohe-Israel. 
Genesis34:1 Now Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land." 
Genesis34:2 Then Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her and took her and lay with her and violated her." 
Genesis34:3 And he was deeply attracted to Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the young woman and spoke to the heart of the young woman." 
Genesis34:4 So Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, “Get me this girl as a wife.”" 
Genesis34:5 Now Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter; but his sons were with his livestock in the field, so Jacob kept silent until they came in." 
Genesis34:6 Then Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to speak with him. 
Genesis34:7 Now the sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard it; and the men were grieved, and they were very angry because he had done a disgraceful thing in Israel by lying with Jacob’s daughter, for such a thing ought not to be done." 
Genesis34:8 But Hamor spoke with them, saying, “The soul of my son Shechem longs for your daughter; please give her to him as a wife." 
Genesis34:9 And intermarry with us; give your daughters to us and take our daughters for yourselves. 
Genesis34:10 Thus you shall live with us, and the land shall be open before you; live and trade in it and take possession of property in it.”" 
Genesis34:11 And Shechem also said to her father and to her brothers, “If I find favor in your sight, then I will give whatever you say to me." 
Genesis34:12 Ask me ever so much bridal payment and gift, and I will give according as you say to me; but give me the girl as a wife.”" 
Genesis34:13 But Jacob’s sons answered Shechem and his father Hamor with deceit, and thus they spoke, because he had defiled Dinah their sister." 
Genesis34:14 And they said to them, “We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a reproach to us." 
Genesis34:15 Only on this condition will we consent to you: if you will become like us, in that every male among you be circumcised," 
Genesis34:16 then we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters for ourselves, and we will live with you and become one people." 
Genesis34:17 But if you will not listen to us to be circumcised, then we will take our daughter and go.”" 
Genesis34:18 Now their words seemed good in the sight of Hamor and Shechem, Hamor’s son." 
Genesis34:19 So the young man did not delay to do the thing because he was delighted with Jacob’s daughter. Now he was more honored than all the household of his father. 
Genesis34:20 So Hamor and his son Shechem came to the gate of their city and spoke to the men of their city, saying," 
Genesis34:21 “These men are peaceful with us; therefore let them live in the land and trade in it, for behold, the land is large enough for them. Let us take their daughters for us as wives and give our daughters to them." 
Genesis34:22 Only on this condition will the men consent to us to live with us, to become one people: that every male among us be circumcised as they are circumcised." 
Genesis34:23 Will not their livestock and what they acquire and all their cattle be ours? Only let us consent to them, and they will live with us.”" 
Genesis34:24 And all who went out of the gate of his city listened to Hamor and to his son Shechem, and every male was circumcised, all who went out of the gate of his city." 
Genesis34:25 Now it happened on the third day, when they were in pain, that two of Jacob’s sons, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brothers, each took his sword and came upon the unsuspecting city and killed every male." 
Genesis34:26 And they killed Hamor and his son Shechem with the edge of the sword and took Dinah from Shechem’s house and went away. 
Genesis34:27 Jacob’s sons came upon the slain and plundered the city because they had defiled their sister. 
Genesis34:28 They took their flocks and their herds and their donkeys and that which was in the city and that which was in the field; 
Genesis34:29 and they captured and plundered all their wealth and all their little ones and their wives, even all that was in the houses." 
Genesis34:30 Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, “You have brought trouble on me by making me odious among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites; and my men being few in number, they will gather together against me and strike me, and I will be destroyed, I and my household.”" 
Genesis34:31 But they said, “Should he treat our sister as a harlot?”" 
Genesis35:1 Then God said to Jacob, “Arise, go up to Bethel and live there, and make an altar there to God, who appeared to you when you fled from your brother Esau.”" 
Genesis35:2 So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, “Put away the foreign gods which are among you and cleanse yourselves and change your garments;" 
Genesis35:3 and let us arise and go up to Bethel, and I will make an altar there to God, who answered me in the day of my distress and has been with me wherever I have gone.”" 
Genesis35:4 So they gave to Jacob all the foreign gods which they had and the rings which were in their ears, and Jacob hid them under the oak which was near Shechem." 
Genesis35:5 Then they journeyed on, and there was a terror from God upon the cities which were around them, and they did not pursue the sons of Jacob." 
Genesis35:6 So Jacob came to Luz (that is, Bethel), which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people who were with him." 
Genesis35:7 And he built an altar there and called the place El-bethel, because there God had revealed Himself to him when he fled from his brother." 
Genesis35:8 Then Deborah, Rebekah’s nurse, died, and she was buried below Bethel under the oak; it was named Allon-bacuth." 
Genesis35:9 Then God appeared to Jacob again when he came from Paddan-aram, and He blessed him." 
Genesis35:10 And God said to him, “Your name is Jacob; Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, But Israel shall be your name.” Thus He called his name Israel." 
Genesis35:11 God also said to him, “I am God Almighty; Be fruitful and multiply; A nation and an assembly of nations shall come from you, And kings shall come forth from your loins." 
Genesis35:12 And the land which I gave to Abraham and Isaac, I will give it to you, And I will give the land to your seed after you.”" 
Genesis35:13 Then God went up from him in the place where He had spoken with him. 
Genesis35:14 And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where He had spoken with him, a pillar of stone, and he poured out a drink offering on it; he also poured oil on it." 
Genesis35:15 So Jacob named the place where God had spoken with him, Bethel." 
Genesis35:16 Then they journeyed from Bethel; and there was still some distance to go to Ephrath, and Rachel gave birth, and she suffered severely in her labor." 
Genesis35:17 Now it happened that when she was in severe labor the midwife said to her, “Do not fear, for now you have another son.”" 
Genesis35:18 Now it happened as her soul was departing (for she died), that she named him Ben-oni; but his father called him Benjamin." 
Genesis35:19 So Rachel died and was buried on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem)." 
Genesis35:20 And Jacob set up a pillar over her grave; that is the pillar of Rachel’s grave to this day. 
Genesis35:21 Then Israel journeyed on and pitched his tent beyond the tower of Eder. 
Genesis35:22 Now it happened while Israel was dwelling in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father’s concubine, and Israel heard of it. And there were twelve sons of Jacob—" 
Genesis35:23 the sons of Leah: Reuben, Jacob’s firstborn, then Simeon and Levi and Judah and Issachar and Zebulun;" 
Genesis35:24 the sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin; 
Genesis35:25 and the sons of Bilhah, Rachel’s servant-woman: Dan and Naphtali;" 
Genesis35:26 and the sons of Zilpah, Leah’s servant-woman: Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob who were born to him in Paddan-aram." 
Genesis35:27 And Jacob came to his father Isaac at Mamre of Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac had sojourned." 
Genesis35:28 Now the days of Isaac were 180 years. 
Genesis35:29 And Isaac breathed his last and died and was gathered to his people, an old man and full of days; and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him." 
Genesis36:1 Now these are the generations of Esau (that is, Edom)." 
Genesis36:2 Esau took his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah and the granddaughter of Zibeon the Hivite;" 
Genesis36:3 also Basemath, Ishmael’s daughter, the sister of Nebaioth." 
Genesis36:4 And Adah bore Eliphaz to Esau, and Basemath bore Reuel," 
Genesis36:5 and Oholibamah bore Jeush and Jalam and Korah. These are the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Canaan. 
Genesis36:6 Then Esau took his wives and his sons and his daughters and all his household, and his livestock and all his cattle and all his acquired goods, which he had accumulated in the land of Canaan, and he went to a land away from his brother Jacob." 
Genesis36:7 For their possessions had become too great for them to live together, and the land where they sojourned could not sustain them because of their livestock." 
Genesis36:8 So Esau lived in the hill country of Seir; Esau is Edom. 
Genesis36:9 These then are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in the hill country of Seir. 
Genesis36:10 These are the names of Esau’s sons: Eliphaz the son of Esau’s wife Adah, Reuel the son of Esau’s wife Basemath." 
Genesis36:11 The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho and Gatam and Kenaz." 
Genesis36:12 Timna was a concubine of Esau’s son Eliphaz, and she bore Amalek to Eliphaz. These are the sons of Esau’s wife Adah." 
Genesis36:13 These are the sons of Reuel: Nahath and Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. These were the sons of Esau’s wife Basemath." 
Genesis36:14 These were the sons of Esau’s wife Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah and the granddaughter of Zibeon: she bore to Esau, Jeush and Jalam and Korah." 
Genesis36:15 These are the chiefs of the sons of Esau. The sons of Eliphaz, the firstborn of Esau, are chief Teman, chief Omar, chief Zepho, chief Kenaz," 
Genesis36:16 chief Korah, chief Gatam, chief Amalek. These are the chiefs descended from Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Adah." 
Genesis36:17 These are the sons of Reuel, Esau’s son: chief Nahath, chief Zerah, chief Shammah, chief Mizzah. These are the chiefs descended from Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Esau’s wife Basemath." 
Genesis36:18 These are the sons of Esau’s wife Oholibamah: chief Jeush, chief Jalam, chief Korah. These are the chiefs descended from Esau’s wife Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah." 
Genesis36:19 These are the sons of Esau (that is, Edom), and these are their chiefs." 
Genesis36:20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan and Shobal and Zibeon and Anah," 
Genesis36:21 and Dishon and Ezer and Dishan. These are the chiefs descended from the Horites, the sons of Seir in the land of Edom." 
Genesis36:22 The sons of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan’s sister was Timna. 
Genesis36:23 These are the sons of Shobal: Alvan and Manahath and Ebal, Shepho and Onam." 
Genesis36:24 These are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah—he is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness when he was pasturing the donkeys of his father Zibeon. 
Genesis36:25 These are the children of Anah: Dishon and Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah." 
Genesis36:26 These are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan and Eshban and Ithran and Cheran. 
Genesis36:27 These are the sons of Ezer: Bilhan and Zaavan and Akan. 
Genesis36:28 These are the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 
Genesis36:29 These are the chiefs of the Horites: chief Lotan, chief Shobal, chief Zibeon, chief Anah," 
Genesis36:30 chief Dishon, chief Ezer, chief Dishan. These are the chiefs descended from the Horites, according to their various chiefs in the land of Seir." 
Genesis36:31 Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king of the sons of Israel reigned. 
Genesis36:32 And Bela the son of Beor became king in Edom, and the name of his city was Dinhabah." 
Genesis36:33 Then Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah became king in his place." 
Genesis36:33 Then Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah became king in his place." 
Genesis36:34 Then Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites became king in his place." 
Genesis36:34 Then Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites became king in his place." 
Genesis36:35 Then Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who struck down Midian in the field of Moab, became king in his place; and the name of his city was Avith." 
Genesis36:36 Then Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah became king in his place." 
Genesis36:37 Then Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth on the River became king in his place." 
Genesis36:38 Then Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor became king in his place." 
Genesis36:39 Then Baal-hanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar became king in his place; and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife’s name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab." 
Genesis36:40 Now these are the names of the chiefs descended from Esau, according to their families and their places, by their names: chief Timna, chief Alvah, chief Jetheth," 
Genesis36:41 chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon," 
Genesis36:42 chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar," 
Genesis36:43 chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These are the chiefs of Edom (that is, Esau, the father of the Edomites), according to their places of habitation in the land of their possession." 
Genesis37:1 Now Jacob lived in the land where his father had sojourned, in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis37:2 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, when seventeen years of age, was pasturing the flock with his brothers while he was still a youth, along with the sons of Bilhah and the sons of Zilpah, his father’s wives. And Joseph brought back an evil report about them to their father." 
Genesis37:3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his sons because he was the son of his old age; and he made him a varicolored tunic. 
Genesis37:4 And his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, and so they hated him and could not speak to him in peace." 
Genesis37:5 Then Joseph had a dream, and he told it to his brothers; so they hated him even more." 
Genesis37:6 And he said to them, “Please listen to this dream which I have had:" 
Genesis37:7 Indeed, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and behold, my sheaf rose up and also stood upright; and behold, your sheaves gathered around and bowed down to my sheaf.”" 
Genesis37:8 Then his brothers said to him, “Are you really going to reign over us? Or are you really going to rule over us?” So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words." 
Genesis37:9 Then he had still another dream and recounted it to his brothers and said, “Behold, I have had still another dream; and behold, the sun and the moon and eleven stars were bowing down to me.”" 
Genesis37:10 And he recounted it to his father and to his brothers; and his father rebuked him and said to him, “What is this dream that you have had? Shall I and your mother and your brothers really come to bow ourselves down before you to the ground?”" 
Genesis37:11 And his brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept the saying in mind." 
Genesis37:12 Then his brothers went to pasture their father’s flock in Shechem. 
Genesis37:13 And Israel said to Joseph, “Are not your brothers pasturing the flock in Shechem? Come, and I will send you to them.” And he said to him, “I will go.”" 
Genesis37:14 Then he said to him, “Go now and see about the welfare of your brothers and the welfare of the flock, and bring word back to me.” So he sent him from the valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem." 
Genesis37:15 And a man found him, and behold, he was wandering in the field; and the man asked him, “What are you seeking?”" 
Genesis37:16 And he said, “I am seeking my brothers; please tell me where they are pasturing the flock.”" 
Genesis37:17 Then the man said, “They have journeyed from here; for I heard them saying, ‘Let us go to Dothan.’” So Joseph went after his brothers and found them at Dothan." 
Genesis37:18 And they saw him from a distance, and before he came close to them, they plotted against him to put him to death." 
Genesis37:19 Then they said to one another, “Here comes this dreamer!" 
Genesis37:20 So now, come and let us kill him and cast him into one of the pits; and we will say, ‘A wild beast devoured him.’ Then let us see what will become of his dreams!”" 
Genesis37:21 But Reuben heard this and delivered him out of their hands and said, “Let us not strike down his life.”" 
Genesis37:22 Reuben further said to them, “Shed no blood. Cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, but do not put forth your hands against him”—that he might deliver him out of their hands to return him to his father." 
Genesis37:23 Now it happened, when Joseph reached his brothers, that they stripped Joseph of his tunic, the varicolored tunic that was on him;" 
Genesis37:24 and they took him and cast him into the pit. Now the pit was empty, without any water in it." 
Genesis37:25 And they sat down to eat a meal. Then they lifted up their eyes and saw, and behold, a caravan of Ishmaelites was coming from Gilead, with their camels bearing aromatic gum and balm and myrrh, going to bring them down to Egypt." 
Genesis37:26 And Judah said to his brothers, “What gain is it that we kill our brother and cover up his blood?" 
Genesis37:27 Come and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites and not lay our hands on him, for he is our brother, our own flesh.” And his brothers listened." 
Genesis37:28 Then some Midianite traders passed by, so they pulled him up and lifted Joseph out of the pit and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver. Thus they brought Joseph into Egypt." 
Genesis37:29 Then Reuben returned to the pit, and behold, Joseph was not in the pit; so he tore his garments." 
Genesis37:30 Then he returned to his brothers and said, “The boy is not there; as for me, where am I to go?”" 
Genesis37:31 So they took Joseph’s tunic and slaughtered a male goat and dipped the tunic in the blood; 
Genesis37:32 and they sent the varicolored tunic and brought it to their father and said, “We found this; please recognize it—whether it is your son’s tunic or not.”" 
Genesis37:33 And he recognized it and said, “It is my son’s tunic. A wild beast has devoured him; Joseph has surely been torn to pieces!”" 
Genesis37:34 So Jacob tore his clothes and put sackcloth on his loins and mourned for his son many days. 
Genesis37:35 Then all his sons and all his daughters arose to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted. And he said, “Surely I will go down to Sheol in mourning for my son.” So his father wept for him." 
Genesis37:36 Meanwhile, the Midianites sold him in Egypt to Potiphar, Pharaoh’s officer, the captain of the bodyguard." 
Genesis38:1 Now it happened at that time that Judah went down from his brothers and turned aside to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah." 
Genesis38:2 And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua; and he took her and went in to her. 
Genesis38:3 So she conceived and bore a son, and he named him Er." 
Genesis38:4 Then she conceived again and bore a son, and she named him Onan." 
Genesis38:5 And she bore still another son, and she named him Shelah; and it was at Chezib that she bore him." 
Genesis38:6 Then Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, and her name was Tamar." 
Genesis38:7 But Er, Judah’s firstborn, was evil in the sight of Yahweh, so Yahweh put him to death." 
Genesis38:8 Then Judah said to Onan, “Go in to your brother’s wife, and perform your duty as a brother-in-law to her, and raise up a seed for your brother.”" 
Genesis38:9 And Onan knew that the seed would not be his; and it happened that when he went in to his brother’s wife, he wasted it on the ground in order not to give seed to his brother." 
Genesis38:10 But what he did was displeasing in the sight of Yahweh; so He put him to death also. 
Genesis38:11 Then Judah said to his daughter-in-law Tamar, “Live as a widow in your father’s house until my son Shelah grows up”; for he thought, “I am afraid lest he also die like his brothers.” So Tamar went and lived in her father’s house." 
Genesis38:12 And after a considerable time, Shua’s daughter, the wife of Judah, died. Then Judah was comforted, and he went up to his sheepshearers at Timnah, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite." 
Genesis38:13 Then it was told to Tamar, “Behold, your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep.”" 
Genesis38:14 So she removed her widow’s garments from herself and covered herself with a veil and wrapped herself. And she sat at the entrance of Enaim, which is on the road to Timnah; for she saw that Shelah had grown up, and she had not been given to him as a wife." 
Genesis38:15 Then Judah saw her, and he thought she was a harlot, for she had covered her face." 
Genesis38:16 So he turned aside to her by the road and said, “Here now, let me come in to you”; for he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. And she said, “What will you give me, that you may come in to me?”" 
Genesis38:17 He said, therefore, “I will send you a young goat from the flock.” She said, moreover, “Will you give a pledge until you send it?”" 
Genesis38:18 Then he said, “What pledge shall I give you?” And she said, “Your signet and your cord and your staff that is in your hand.” So he gave them to her and went in to her, and she conceived by him." 
Genesis38:19 Then she arose and went. And she removed her veil from herself and put on her widow’s garments. 
Genesis38:20 Then Judah sent the young goat by his friend the Adullamite to take the pledge from the woman’s hand, but he did not find her." 
Genesis38:21 So he asked the men of her place, saying, “Where is the cult prostitute who was by the road at Enaim?” But they said, “There has been no cult prostitute here.”" 
Genesis38:22 So he returned to Judah and said, “I did not find her; and furthermore, the men of the place said, ‘There has been no cult prostitute here.’”" 
Genesis38:23 Then Judah said, “Let her keep them, lest we become a laughingstock. Behold, I sent this young goat, but you did not find her.”" 
Genesis38:24 Now it happened about three months later that it was told to Judah saying, “Your daughter-in-law Tamar has played the harlot, and behold, she is also with child by harlotry.” Then Judah said, “Bring her out and let her be burned!”" 
Genesis38:25 It was while she was being brought out that she sent to her father-in-law, saying, “I am with child by the man to whom these things belong.” And she said, “Please recognize this and see, whose signet ring and cords and staff are these?”" 
Genesis38:26 And Judah recognized them and said, “She is more righteous than I, inasmuch as I did not give her to my son Shelah.” And he did not know her again." 
Genesis38:27 Now it happened at the time she was giving birth, that behold, there were twins in her womb." 
Genesis38:28 And it happened, while she was giving birth, one put out a hand, and the midwife took and tied a scarlet thread on his hand, saying, “This one came out first.”" 
Genesis38:29 And then it happened, as he drew back his hand, that behold, his brother came out. So she said, “What a breach you have made for yourself!” So he was named Perez." 
Genesis38:30 Afterward his brother came out who had the scarlet thread on his hand; and he was named Zerah. 
Genesis39:1 Now Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an Egyptian official of Pharaoh, the captain of the bodyguard, bought him from the Ishmaelites, who had brought him down there." 
Genesis39:2 And Yahweh was with Joseph, so he became a successful man. And he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian." 
Genesis39:3 Now his master saw that Yahweh was with him and how Yahweh caused all that he did to succeed in his hand. 
Genesis39:4 So Joseph found favor in his sight and attended on him; and he appointed him overseer over his house, and all that he owned he gave in his hand." 
Genesis39:5 Now it happened that from the time he appointed him overseer in his house and over all that he owned, Yahweh blessed the Egyptian’s house on account of Joseph; thus the blessing of Yahweh was upon all that he owned, in the house and in the field." 
Genesis39:6 So he left everything he owned in Joseph’s hand; and with him there he did not concern himself with anything except the food which he ate. Now Joseph was beautiful in form and beautiful in appearance. 
Genesis39:7 And it happened after these events that his master’s wife set her eyes on Joseph and said, “Lie with me.”" 
Genesis39:8 But he refused and said to his master’s wife, “Behold, with me here, my master does not concern himself with anything in the house, and he has given all that he owns into my hand." 
Genesis39:9 There is no one greater in this house than I, and he has withheld nothing from me except you, because you are his wife. How then could I do this great evil and sin against God?”" 
Genesis39:10 So it happened that as she spoke to Joseph day after day, he did not listen to her to lie beside her or be with her." 
Genesis39:11 Now it happened one day that he went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the household was there inside." 
Genesis39:12 Then she seized him by his garment, saying, “Lie with me!” And he left his garment in her hand and fled and went outside." 
Genesis39:13 Now it happened, when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and had fled outside," 
Genesis39:14 that she called to the men of her household and spoke to them, saying, “See, he has brought in a Hebrew to us to laugh at us; he came in to me to lie with me, and I screamed." 
Genesis39:15 Now it happened that when he heard that I raised my voice and screamed, he left his garment beside me and fled and went outside.”" 
Genesis39:16 And she placed his garment beside her until his master came home. 
Genesis39:17 Then she spoke to him with these words, saying, “The Hebrew slave, whom you brought to us, came in to me to laugh at me;" 
Genesis39:18 and as I raised my voice and screamed, he left his garment beside me and fled outside.”" 
Genesis39:19 Now it happened that when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spoke to him, saying, “This is what your slave did to me,” his anger burned." 
Genesis39:20 So Joseph’s master took him and put him into the jail, the place where the king’s prisoners were confined; and he was there in the jail." 
Genesis39:21 But Yahweh was with Joseph and extended lovingkindness to him and gave him favor in the sight of the chief jailer. 
Genesis39:22 So the chief jailer gave into the hand of Joseph all the prisoners who were in the jail; so that whatever was done there, he was the one who did it." 
Genesis39:23 The chief jailer did not supervise anything under Joseph’s hand because Yahweh was with him; and whatever he did, Yahweh made to succeed." 
Genesis40:1 Now it happened that after these things, the cupbearer and the baker for the king of Egypt offended their lord, the king of Egypt." 
Genesis40:2 And Pharaoh was furious with his two officials, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker." 
Genesis40:3 So he put them in confinement in the house of the captain of the bodyguard, in the jail, the same place where Joseph was imprisoned." 
Genesis40:4 And the captain of the bodyguard appointed Joseph as overseer over them, and he attended to them; and they were in confinement for some time." 
Genesis40:5 Then the cupbearer and the baker for the king of Egypt, who were confined in jail, both had a dream the same night, each man with his own dream and each dream with its own interpretation." 
Genesis40:6 Now Joseph came to them in the morning and saw them, and behold, they were dejected." 
Genesis40:7 So he asked Pharaoh’s officials who were with him in confinement in his master’s house, saying, “Why are your faces so sad today?”" 
Genesis40:8 Then they said to him, “We have had a dream, and there is no one to interpret it.” Then Joseph said to them, “Do not interpretations belong to God? Recount it to me, please.”" 
Genesis40:9 So the chief cupbearer recounted his dream to Joseph and said to him, “In my dream, behold, there was a vine in front of me;" 
Genesis40:10 and on the vine were three branches. And as it was budding, its blossoms came out, and its clusters produced ripe grapes." 
Genesis40:11 Now Pharaoh’s cup was in my hand; so I took the grapes and squeezed them into Pharaoh’s cup, and I put the cup into Pharaoh’s hand.”" 
Genesis40:12 Then Joseph said to him, “This is the interpretation of it: the three branches are three days;" 
Genesis40:13 within three more days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your office; and you will put Pharaoh’s cup into his hand according to your former custom when you were his cupbearer. 
Genesis40:14 Only remember me when it goes well with you, and please show me lovingkindness by remembering me to Pharaoh and getting me out of this house." 
Genesis40:15 For I was in fact stolen from the land of the Hebrews, and even here I have done nothing that they should have put me into the pit.”" 
Genesis40:16 And the chief baker saw that he had interpreted favorably, so he said to Joseph, “I also saw in my dream, and behold, there were three baskets of white bread on my head;" 
Genesis40:17 and in the top basket there were some of all sorts of baked food for Pharaoh, and the birds were eating them out of the basket on my head.”" 
Genesis40:18 Then Joseph answered and said, “This is its interpretation: the three baskets are three days;" 
Genesis40:19 within three more days Pharaoh will lift up your head off of you and will hang you on a tree, and the birds will eat your flesh off of you.”" 
Genesis40:20 Thus it happened on the third day, which was Pharaoh’s birthday, that he made a feast for all his servants; and he lifted up the head of the chief cupbearer and the head of the chief baker among his servants." 
Genesis40:21 And he restored the chief cupbearer to his office, and he put the cup into Pharaoh’s hand;" 
Genesis40:22 but he hanged the chief baker, just as Joseph had interpreted to them." 
Genesis40:23 Yet the chief cupbearer did not remember Joseph, but forgot him." 
Genesis41:1 Now it happened at the end of two full years that Pharaoh had a dream, and behold, he was standing by the Nile." 
Genesis41:2 And behold, from the Nile there came up seven cows, sleek and fat; and they grazed in the reeds." 
Genesis41:3 Then behold, seven other cows came up after them from the Nile, ugly and thin, and they stood by the other cows on the bank of the Nile." 
Genesis41:4 And the ugly and thin cows ate up the seven sleek and fat cows. Then Pharaoh awoke. 
Genesis41:5 He again fell asleep and dreamed a second time; and behold, seven ears of grain came up on a single stalk, plump and good." 
Genesis41:6 And behold, seven ears, thin and scorched by the east wind, sprouted up after them." 
Genesis41:7 And the thin ears swallowed up the seven plump and full ears. Then Pharaoh awoke, and behold, it was a dream." 
Genesis41:8 Now it happened that in the morning his spirit was troubled, so he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all its wise men. And Pharaoh recounted to them his dream, but there was no one who could interpret them to Pharaoh." 
Genesis41:9 Then the chief cupbearer spoke to Pharaoh, saying, “I would bring to remembrance today my own offenses." 
Genesis41:10 Pharaoh was furious with his servants, and he put me in confinement in the house of the captain of the bodyguard, both me and the chief baker." 
Genesis41:11 And we had a dream on the same night, he and I; each of us dreamed according to the interpretation of his own dream." 
Genesis41:12 Now there was with us a Hebrew youth, a slave of the captain of the bodyguard, and we recounted them to him, and he interpreted our dreams for us. To each one he interpreted according to his own dream." 
Genesis41:13 And just as he interpreted for us, so it happened; he restored me in my office, but he hanged him.”" 
Genesis41:14 Then Pharaoh sent and called for Joseph, and they rushed him out of the pit; and he shaved himself and changed his clothes, and he came to Pharaoh." 
Genesis41:15 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, “I have had a dream, but no one can interpret it; yet I have heard it said about you, that you hear a dream and that you can interpret it.”" 
Genesis41:16 Joseph then answered Pharaoh, saying, “It is not in me; God will answer concerning the welfare of Pharaoh.”" 
Genesis41:17 So Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, “In my dream, behold, I was standing on the bank of the Nile;" 
Genesis41:18 and behold, seven cows, fat and sleek came up out of the Nile, and they grazed in the reeds." 
Genesis41:19 And behold, seven other cows came up after them, poor and very ugly and lean, such as I had never seen in all the land of Egypt, in regard to ugliness;" 
Genesis41:20 and the lean and ugly cows ate up the first seven fat cows. 
Genesis41:21 But they devoured them, and yet it could not be known that they had devoured them. For they were just as ugly as before. Then I awoke." 
Genesis41:22 Then I saw also in my dream, and behold, seven ears, full and good, came up on a single stalk;" 
Genesis41:23 and behold, seven ears, withered, thin, and scorched by the east wind, sprouted up after them;" 
Genesis41:24 and the thin ears swallowed the seven good ears. So I told it to the magicians, but there was no one who could declare it to me.”" 
Genesis41:25 Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, “Pharaoh’s dreams are one and the same; God has declared to Pharaoh what He is about to do." 
Genesis41:26 The seven good cows are seven years; and the seven good ears are seven years; the dreams are one and the same. 
Genesis41:27 And the seven lean and ugly cows that came up after them are seven years, and the seven lean ears scorched by the east wind will be seven years of famine." 
Genesis41:28 It is as I have spoken to Pharaoh: God has shown to Pharaoh what He is about to do. 
Genesis41:29 Behold, seven years of great abundance are coming in all the land of Egypt;" 
Genesis41:30 and after them seven years of famine will arise, and all the abundance will be forgotten in the land of Egypt, and the famine will ravage the land," 
Genesis41:31 so that the abundance will be unknown in the land because of that subsequent famine; for it will be very heavy. 
Genesis41:32 Now as for the repeating of the dream to Pharaoh twice, it means that the matter is confirmed by God, and God will quickly bring it about." 
Genesis41:33 So now let Pharaoh look for a man understanding and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:34 Let Pharaoh take action and appoint overseers over the land, and let him exact a fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt in the seven years of abundance." 
Genesis41:35 Then let them gather all the food of these good years that are coming, and let them store up the grain for food in the cities under Pharaoh’s authority, and let them keep watch over it." 
Genesis41:36 And let the food be appointed for the land for the seven years of famine which will happen in the land of Egypt, so that the land will not be cut off during the famine.”" 
Genesis41:37 And the proposal seemed good to Pharaoh and to all his servants. 
Genesis41:38 Then Pharaoh said to his servants, “Can we find a man like this, in whom is a divine spirit?”" 
Genesis41:39 So Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Since God has made you know all of this, there is no one so understanding and wise as you are." 
Genesis41:40 You shall be over my house, and according to your command all my people shall do homage; only in the throne I will be greater than you.”" 
Genesis41:41 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, “See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt.”" 
Genesis41:42 Then Pharaoh removed his signet ring from his hand and put it on Joseph’s hand and clothed him in garments of fine linen and put the gold necklace around his neck. 
Genesis41:43 And he had him ride in his second chariot; and they called out before him, “Bow the knee!” And he set him over all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:44 Moreover, Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Though I am Pharaoh, yet without your permission no one shall raise his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.”" 
Genesis41:45 Then Pharaoh named Joseph Zaphenath-paneah; and he gave him Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of On, as a wife. And Joseph went forth over the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:46 Now Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and passed through all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:47 And during the seven years of plenty the land brought forth abundantly. 
Genesis41:48 So he gathered all the food of these seven years which happened in the land of Egypt and placed the food in the cities; he placed in every city the food from its own surrounding fields. 
Genesis41:49 Thus Joseph stored up grain in great abundance like the sand of the sea, until he stopped measuring it, for it was beyond measure." 
Genesis41:50 Now before the year of famine came, two sons were born to Joseph, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of On, bore to him." 
Genesis41:51 And Joseph named the firstborn Manasseh, “For,” he said, “God has made me forget all my trouble and all my father’s household.”" 
Genesis41:52 And he named the second Ephraim, “For,” he said, “God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction.”" 
Genesis41:53 Then the seven years of plenty which had been in the land of Egypt came to an end," 
Genesis41:54 and the seven years of famine began to come, just as Joseph had said. So there was famine in all the lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread." 
Genesis41:55 Then all the land of Egypt was famished, and the people cried out to Pharaoh for bread; and Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, “Go to Joseph; whatever he says to you, you shall do.”" 
Genesis41:56 Now the famine was over all the face of the land. And Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians; and the famine was severe in the land of Egypt. 
Genesis41:57 Now all the earth also came to Egypt to buy grain from Joseph because the famine was severe in all the earth. 
Genesis42:1 Now Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, and Jacob said to his sons, “Why are you staring at one another?”" 
Genesis42:2 Then he said, “Behold, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down there and buy some for us from there, so that we may live and not die.”" 
Genesis42:3 So ten brothers of Joseph went down to buy grain from Egypt. 
Genesis42:4 But Jacob did not send Joseph’s brother Benjamin with his brothers, for he said, “Lest any harm befall him.”" 
Genesis42:5 So the sons of Israel came to buy grain among those who were coming, for the famine was in the land of Canaan also." 
Genesis42:6 Now Joseph was the one in power over the land; he was the one who sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph’s brothers came and bowed down to him with their faces to the ground. 
Genesis42:7 And Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he disguised himself to them and spoke to them harshly. And he said to them, “Where have you come from?” And they said, “From the land of Canaan, to buy food.”" 
Genesis42:8 But Joseph recognized his brothers, although they did not recognize him." 
Genesis42:9 And Joseph remembered the dreams which he had about them and said to them, “You are spies; you have come to look at the nakedness of the land.”" 
Genesis42:10 Then they said to him, “No, my lord, but your servants have come to buy food." 
Genesis42:11 We are all sons of one man; we are honest men; your servants are not spies.” 
Genesis42:12 And he said to them, “No, but you have come to look at the nakedness of our land!”" 
Genesis42:13 So they said, “Your servants are twelve brothers in all, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and behold, the youngest is with our father today, and one is no more.”" 
Genesis42:14 And Joseph said to them, “It is as I said to you, you are spies;" 
Genesis42:15 by this you will be tested: by the life of Pharaoh, you shall not go from this place unless your youngest brother comes here!" 
Genesis42:16 Send one of you that he may get your brother, while you remain confined, that your words may be tested, whether there is truth in you. But if not, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies.”" 
Genesis42:17 Then he put them all together in prison for three days. 
Genesis42:18 And Joseph said to them on the third day, “Do this and live, for I fear God:" 
Genesis42:19 if you are honest men, let one of your brothers be confined in your prison; but as for the rest of you, go, bring grain for the famine of your households," 
Genesis42:20 and bring your youngest brother to me, so your words may be proven true, and you will not die.” And they did so." 
Genesis42:21 Then they said to one another, “Surely we are guilty concerning our brother because we saw the distress of his soul when he begged us, yet we would not listen; therefore this distress has come upon us.”" 
Genesis42:22 And Reuben answered them, saying, “Did I not tell you, saying, ‘Do not sin against the boy’; yet you would not listen? So also his blood, behold, it is required of us.”" 
Genesis42:23 Now they did not know that Joseph was listening, for there was an interpreter between them." 
Genesis42:24 And he turned away from them and wept. Then he returned to them and spoke to them. And he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes. 
Genesis42:25 Then Joseph gave a command to fill their bags with grain and to restore every man’s money in his sack and to give them provisions for the journey. And thus it was done for them. 
Genesis42:26 So they loaded their donkeys with their grain and went from there. 
Genesis42:27 Then one of them opened his sack to give his donkey fodder at the lodging place. And he saw his money; and behold, it was in the mouth of his sack." 
Genesis42:28 So he said to his brothers, “My money has been returned, and behold, it is even in my sack.” And their hearts sank, and they turned trembling to one another, saying, “What is this that God has done to us?”" 
Genesis42:29 Then they came to their father Jacob in the land of Canaan and told him all that had happened to them, saying," 
Genesis42:30 “The man, the lord of the land, spoke harshly with us and took us for spies of the country." 
Genesis42:31 So we said to him, ‘We are honest men; we are not spies." 
Genesis42:32 We are twelve brothers, sons of our father; one is no more, and the youngest is with our father today in the land of Canaan.’" 
Genesis42:33 Then the man, the lord of the land, said to us, ‘By this I will know that you are honest men: leave one of your brothers with me and take grain for the famine of your households, and go." 
Genesis42:34 But bring your youngest brother to me that I may know that you are not spies, but honest men. I will give your brother to you, and you may trade in the land.’”" 
Genesis42:35 Now it happened that they were emptying their sacks, and behold, every man’s bundle of money was in his sack; and they and their father saw their bundles of money, and they feared." 
Genesis42:36 And their father Jacob said to them, “You have bereaved me of my children: Joseph is no more, and Simeon is no more, and you would take Benjamin; all these things are against me.”" 
Genesis42:37 Then Reuben spoke to his father, saying, “You may put my two sons to death if I do not bring him back to you; put him in my hand, and I will return him to you.”" 
Genesis42:38 But Jacob said, “My son shall not go down with you; for his brother is dead, and he alone remains. If harm should befall him on the journey on which you are going, then you will bring my gray hair down to Sheol in sorrow.”" 
Genesis43:1 Now the famine was heavy in the land. 
Genesis43:2 And it happened when they had finished eating the grain which they had brought from Egypt, that their father said to them, “Go back, buy us a little food.”" 
Genesis43:3 Judah spoke to him, however, saying, “The man solemnly warned us, saying, ‘You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you.’" 
Genesis43:4 If you send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you food." 
Genesis43:5 But if you do not send him, we will not go down; for the man said to us, ‘You will not see my face unless your brother is with you.’”" 
Genesis43:6 Then Israel said, “Why did you treat me so badly by telling the man whether you still had another brother?”" 
Genesis43:7 But they said, “The man questioned particularly about us and our kin, saying, ‘Is your father still alive? Have you another brother?’ So we told him concerning these things. Could we possibly have known that he would say, ‘Bring your brother down’?”" 
Genesis43:8 Then Judah said to his father Israel, “Send the boy with me, and we will arise and go, that we may live and not die, we as well as you and our little ones." 
Genesis43:9 I myself will be the guarantee for him; from my hand you may require him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then I shall bear the sin before you all my days." 
Genesis43:10 For if we had not delayed, surely by now we could have returned twice.”" 
Genesis43:11 Then their father Israel said to them, “If it must be so, then do this: take some of the best products of the land in your bags, and bring them down to the man as a present, a little balm and a little honey, aromatic gum and myrrh, pistachio nuts and almonds." 
Genesis43:12 Now take double the money in your hand, and take back in your hand the money that was put back in the mouth of your sacks; perhaps it was a mistake." 
Genesis43:13 And take your brother also, and arise, return to the man;" 
Genesis43:14 and may God Almighty grant you compassion before the man, so that he will release to you your other brother and Benjamin. And as for me, if I am bereaved of my children, I am bereaved.”" 
Genesis43:15 So the men took this present, and they took double the money in their hand, and Benjamin; and they arose and went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph." 
Genesis43:16 Then Joseph saw Benjamin with them and said to his house steward, “Bring the men into the house, and slay an animal and prepare it; for the men are to eat with me at noon.”" 
Genesis43:17 So the man did as Joseph said and brought the men to Joseph’s house. 
Genesis43:18 And the men were afraid because they were brought to Joseph’s house; and they said, “It is because of the money that was returned in our sacks the first time that we are being brought in, that he may seek occasion against us and fall upon us and take us for slaves with our donkeys.”" 
Genesis43:19 So they came near to Joseph’s house steward and spoke to him at the entrance of the house," 
Genesis43:20 and they said, “Oh, my lord, we indeed came down the first time to buy food," 
Genesis43:21 and it happened when we came to the lodging place, that we opened our sacks, and behold, each man’s money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full. So we have brought it back in our hand." 
Genesis43:22 We have also brought down other money in our hand to buy food; we do not know who put our money in our sacks.” 
Genesis43:23 And he said, “Be well, do not be afraid. Your God and the God of your father has given you treasure in your sacks; your money has come to me.” Then he brought Simeon out to them." 
Genesis43:24 Then the man brought the men into Joseph’s house and gave them water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their donkeys fodder." 
Genesis43:25 So they prepared the present for Joseph’s coming at noon; for they had heard that they were to eat a meal there. 
Genesis43:26 Then Joseph came home, and they brought into the house to him the present which was in their hand and bowed to the ground before him." 
Genesis43:27 And he asked them about their well-being and said, “Is your old father well, of whom you spoke? Is he still alive?”" 
Genesis43:28 And they said, “Your servant our father is well; he is still alive.” They bowed down and prostrated themselves." 
Genesis43:29 Then he lifted his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother’s son. And he said, “Is this your youngest brother, of whom you spoke to me?” And he said, “May God be gracious to you, my son.”" 
Genesis43:30 And Joseph hurried out for he was deeply stirred with compassion over his brother, and he sought a place to weep; and he entered his chamber and wept there." 
Genesis43:31 Then he washed his face and came out; and he restrained himself and said, “Set the meal.”" 
Genesis43:32 So they set the meal for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because the Egyptians could not eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians." 
Genesis43:33 And they were seated before him, the firstborn according to his birthright and the youngest according to his youth, and the men looked at one another in astonishment." 
Genesis43:34 And he took portions to them from his own table, but Benjamin’s portion was five times greater than any of theirs. So they feasted and drank freely with him." 
Genesis44:1 Then he commanded his house steward, saying, “Fill the men’s sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man’s money in the mouth of his sack." 
Genesis44:2 Now put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, and his money for the grain.” And he did as Joseph had told him." 
Genesis44:3 As the morning light broke, the men were sent away, they with their donkeys." 
Genesis44:4 Now they had just gone out of the city and were not far off when Joseph said to his house steward, “Arise, pursue the men; you shall overtake them and say to them, ‘Why have you repaid evil for good?" 
Genesis44:5 Is not this the one from which my lord drinks and which he indeed uses to interpret omens? You have done evil in doing this.’” 
Genesis44:6 So he overtook them and spoke these words to them. 
Genesis44:7 And they said to him, “Why does my lord speak such words as these? Far be it from your servants to do such a thing." 
Genesis44:8 Behold, the money which we found in the mouth of our sacks we have brought back to you from the land of Canaan. How then could we steal silver or gold from your lord’s house?" 
Genesis44:9 With whomever of your servants it is found, let him die, and we also will be my lord’s slaves.”" 
Genesis44:10 So he said, “Now let it also be according to your words; he with whom it is found shall be my slave, but the rest of you shall be innocent.”" 
Genesis44:11 Then they hurried, each man brought his sack down to the ground, and each man opened his sack." 
Genesis44:12 So he searched, beginning with the oldest and ending with the youngest, and the cup was found in Benjamin’s sack." 
Genesis44:13 Then they tore their clothes, and each man loaded his donkey and returned to the city." 
Genesis44:14 Then Judah and his brothers came to Joseph’s house, and he was still there. So they fell to the ground before him." 
Genesis44:15 And Joseph said to them, “What is this deed that you have done? Do you not know that such a man as I can indeed interpret omens?”" 
Genesis44:16 So Judah said, “What can we say to my lord? What can we speak? And how can we justify ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your servants; behold, we are my lord’s slaves, both we and the one in whose possession the cup has been found.”" 
Genesis44:17 But he said, “Far be it from me to do this. The man in whose possession the cup has been found, he shall be my slave; but as for you, go up in peace to your father.”" 
Genesis44:18 Then Judah came near to him and said, “O my lord, may your servant please speak a word in my lord’s ears, and do not be angry with your servant; for you are equal to Pharaoh." 
Genesis44:19 My lord asked his servants, saying, ‘Have you a father or a brother?’" 
Genesis44:20 And we said to my lord, ‘We have an old father and a little child of his old age. Now his brother is dead, so he alone is left of his mother, and his father loves him.’" 
Genesis44:21 Then you said to your servants, ‘Bring him down to me that I may set my eyes on him.’" 
Genesis44:22 And we said to my lord, ‘The boy cannot leave his father; if he should leave his father, his father would die.’" 
Genesis44:23 You said to your servants, however, ‘If your youngest brother does not come down with you, you will not see my face again.’" 
Genesis44:24 Thus it happened that when we went up to your servant my father, we told him the words of my lord." 
Genesis44:25 And our father said, ‘Go back, buy us a little food.’" 
Genesis44:26 But we said, ‘We cannot go down. If our youngest brother is with us, then we will go down; for we cannot see the man’s face if our youngest brother is not with us.’" 
Genesis44:27 And your servant my father said to us, ‘You know that my wife bore me two sons;" 
Genesis44:28 and the one went out from me, and I said, “Surely he is torn to pieces,” and I have not seen him since." 
Genesis44:29 If you take this one also from me and harm befalls him, you will bring my gray hair down to Sheol in evil.’" 
Genesis44:30 So now, when I come to your servant my father, and the boy is not with us—and his life is bound up in the boy’s life—" 
Genesis44:31 so it will be that when he sees that the boy is not with us, he will die. Thus your servants will bring the gray hair of your servant our father down to Sheol in sorrow." 
Genesis44:32 For your servant became a guarantee for the boy to my father, saying, ‘If I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the sin before my father all my days.’" 
Genesis44:33 So now, please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a slave to my lord, and let the boy go up with his brothers." 
Genesis44:34 For how shall I go up to my father if the boy is not with me, lest I see the evil that would overtake my father?”" 
Genesis45:1 Then Joseph could not restrain himself before all those who stood by him, and he called out, “Have everyone go out from me.” So there was no man with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers." 
Genesis45:2 Then he wept loudly. And the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it." 
Genesis45:3 Then Joseph said to his brothers, “I am Joseph! Is my father still alive?” But his brothers could not answer him, for they were terrified at his presence." 
Genesis45:4 Then Joseph said to his brothers, “Please come near to me.” And they came near. And he said, “I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt." 
Genesis45:5 So now do not be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life." 
Genesis45:6 For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are still five years in which there will be neither plowing nor harvesting." 
Genesis45:7 So God sent me before you to establish for you a remnant in the earth and to keep you alive for a great remnant of survivors. 
Genesis45:8 So now, it was not you who sent me here, but God; and He has set me as a father to Pharaoh and lord of all his household and ruler over all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis45:9 Hurry and go up to my father, and say to him, ‘Thus says your son Joseph, “God has set me as lord of all Egypt; come down to me, do not delay." 
Genesis45:10 And you shall live in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children and your children’s children and your flocks and your herds and all that you have." 
Genesis45:11 There I will also provide for you, for there are still five years of famine to come, lest you and your household and all that you have be impoverished.”’" 
Genesis45:12 And behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see, that it is my mouth which is speaking to you." 
Genesis45:13 So you must tell my father of all my glory in Egypt and all that you have seen; and you must hurry and bring my father down here.” 
Genesis45:14 Then he fell on his brother Benjamin’s neck and wept, and Benjamin wept on his neck." 
Genesis45:15 He kissed all his brothers and wept on them, and afterward his brothers talked with him." 
Genesis45:16 Now the news was heard in Pharaoh’s house, saying, “Joseph’s brothers have come.” And it was good in the sight of Pharaoh and in the sight of his servants." 
Genesis45:17 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Say to your brothers, ‘Do this: load your beasts and go to the land of Canaan," 
Genesis45:18 and take your father and your households and come to me, and I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you will eat the fat of the land.’" 
Genesis45:19 Now you are commanded, ‘Do this: take wagons from the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives, and bring your father and come." 
Genesis45:20 Now do not concern yourselves with your goods, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours.’”" 
Genesis45:21 Then the sons of Israel did so; and Joseph gave them wagons according to the command of Pharaoh, and he gave them provisions for the journey." 
Genesis45:22 To each of them he gave changes of garments, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of garments." 
Genesis45:23 Now to his father he sent as follows: ten donkeys loaded with the best things of Egypt and ten female donkeys loaded with grain and bread and sustenance for his father on the journey. 
Genesis45:24 So he sent his brothers away, and they departed. And he said to them, “Do not be stirred up on the journey.”" 
Genesis45:25 Then they went up from Egypt, and came to the land of Canaan to their father Jacob." 
Genesis45:26 And they told him, saying, “Joseph is still alive, and indeed he is ruler over all the land of Egypt.” But his heart was stunned, for he did not believe them." 
Genesis45:27 Yet they told him all the words of Joseph that he had spoken to them, and he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent to carry him. Then the spirit of their father Jacob revived." 
Genesis45:28 And Israel said, “It is enough! My son Joseph is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.”" 
Genesis46:1 So Israel set out with all that he had and came to Beersheba and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac. 
Genesis46:2 And God spoke to Israel in visions of the night and said, “Jacob, Jacob.” And he said, “Here I am.”" 
Genesis46:3 And He said, “I am God, the God of your father; do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for I will make you a great nation there." 
Genesis46:4 I Myself will go down with you to Egypt, and I Myself will also bring you up again; and Joseph will close your eyes with his hand.”" 
Genesis46:5 Then Jacob arose from Beersheba; and the sons of Israel carried their father Jacob and their little ones and their wives in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him. 
Genesis46:6 And they took their livestock and their possessions, which they had accumulated in the land of Canaan, and they came to Egypt, Jacob and all his seed with him:" 
Genesis46:7 his sons and his grandsons with him, his daughters and his granddaughters, and all his seed he brought with him to Egypt." 
Genesis46:8 Now these are the names of the sons of Israel—of Jacob and his sons—who were coming to Egypt: Reuben, Jacob’s firstborn." 
Genesis46:9 The sons of Reuben: Hanoch and Pallu and Hezron and Carmi. 
Genesis46:10 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman. 
Genesis46:11 The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari." 
Genesis46:12 The sons of Judah: Er and Onan and Shelah and Perez and Zerah (but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan). And the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 
Genesis46:13 The sons of Issachar: Tola and Puvvah and Iob and Shimron. 
Genesis46:14 The sons of Zebulun: Sered and Elon and Jahleel. 
Genesis46:15 These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Paddan-aram, with his daughter Dinah; all his sons and his daughters numbered thirty-three." 
Genesis46:16 The sons of Gad: Ziphion and Haggi, Shuni and Ezbon, Eri and Arodi and Areli." 
Genesis46:17 The sons of Asher: Imnah and Ishvah and Ishvi and Beriah and their sister Serah. And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel. 
Genesis46:18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Leah; and she bore to Jacob these sixteen persons." 
Genesis46:19 The sons of Jacob’s wife Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin. 
Genesis46:20 Now to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, priest of On, bore to him." 
Genesis46:21 The sons of Benjamin: Bela and Becher and Ashbel, Gera and Naaman, Ehi and Rosh, Muppim and Huppim and Ard." 
Genesis46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob; there were fourteen persons in all." 
Genesis46:23 The sons of Dan: Hushim. 
Genesis46:24 The sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel and Guni and Jezer and Shillem. 
Genesis46:25 These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Rachel, and she bore these to Jacob; there were seven persons in all." 
Genesis46:26 All the persons belonging to Jacob, who came to Egypt, who came out of his loins, excluding the wives of Jacob’s sons, were sixty-six persons in all," 
Genesis46:27 and the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt were two; all the persons of the house of Jacob, who came to Egypt, were seventy." 
Genesis46:28 Now he sent Judah before him to Joseph, to point out the way before him to Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen." 
Genesis46:29 And Joseph harnessed his chariot and went up to Goshen to meet his father Israel; as soon as he appeared before him, he fell on his neck and wept on his neck a long time." 
Genesis46:30 Then Israel said to Joseph, “Now I can die, since I have seen your face, that you are still alive.”" 
Genesis46:31 And Joseph said to his brothers and to his father’s household, “I will go up and tell Pharaoh and say to him, ‘My brothers and my father’s household, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me;" 
Genesis46:32 and the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of livestock; and they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have.’" 
Genesis46:33 And it will be when Pharaoh calls you and says, ‘What is your occupation?’" 
Genesis46:34 then you shall say, ‘Your servants have been keepers of livestock from our youth and until now, both we and our fathers,’ that you may live in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.”" 
Genesis47:1 Then Joseph went in and told Pharaoh and said, “My father and my brothers and their flocks and their herds and all that they have, have come out of the land of Canaan; and behold, they are in the land of Goshen.”" 
Genesis47:2 And he took five men from among his brothers and set them before Pharaoh. 
Genesis47:3 Then Pharaoh said to his brothers, “What is your occupation?” So they said to Pharaoh, “Your servants are shepherds, both we and our fathers.”" 
Genesis47:4 And they said to Pharaoh, “We have come to sojourn in the land, for there is no pasture for your servants’ flocks, for the famine is heavy in the land of Canaan. So now, please let your servants live in the land of Goshen.”" 
Genesis47:5 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Your father and your brothers have come to you." 
Genesis47:6 The land of Egypt is at your disposal; have your father and your brothers settle in the best of the land, let them settle in the land of Goshen; and if you know any excellent men among them, then put them in charge of my livestock.”" 
Genesis47:7 Then Joseph brought his father Jacob and stood him before Pharaoh; and Jacob blessed Pharaoh. 
Genesis47:8 And Pharaoh said to Jacob, “How many are the days of the years of your life?”" 
Genesis47:9 So Jacob said to Pharaoh, “The days of the years of my sojourning are 130; few and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and they have not attained to the days of the years that my fathers lived during the days of their sojourning.”" 
Genesis47:10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh and went out from the presence of Pharaoh. 
Genesis47:11 So Joseph settled his father and his brothers and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded." 
Genesis47:12 And Joseph provided his father and his brothers and all his father’s household with food, according to their little ones." 
Genesis47:13 Now there was no food in all the land because the famine was very heavy, so that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished because of the famine." 
Genesis47:14 And Joseph gathered all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan for the grain which they bought, and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh’s house." 
Genesis47:15 Then the money came to an end in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan. So all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, “Give us food, for why should we die in your presence? For our money is gone.”" 
Genesis47:16 Then Joseph said, “Give up your livestock, and I will give you food for your livestock, since your money is gone.”" 
Genesis47:17 So they brought their livestock to Joseph, and Joseph gave them food in exchange for the horses and the flocks and the herds and the donkeys; and he fed them with food in exchange for all their livestock that year." 
Genesis47:18 Then that year came to an end. And they came to him the next year and said to him, “We will not hide from my lord that our money has come to an end, and the livestock are my lord’s. There is nothing left for my lord except our bodies and our land." 
Genesis47:19 Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for food, and we and our land will be slaves to Pharaoh. So give us seed, that we may live and not die, and that the land may not be desolate.”" 
Genesis47:20 So Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh, for every Egyptian sold his field because the famine was severe upon them. Thus the land became Pharaoh’s." 
Genesis47:21 As for the people, he moved them to the cities from one end of Egypt’s border to the other end." 
Genesis47:22 Only the land of the priests he did not buy, for the priests had an allotment from Pharaoh, and they ate off the allotment which Pharaoh gave them. Therefore, they did not sell their land." 
Genesis47:23 Then Joseph said to the people, “Behold, I have today bought you and your land for Pharaoh; now, here is seed for you, and you may sow the land." 
Genesis47:24 And it will be, at the harvest you shall give a fifth to Pharaoh, and four-fifths shall be your own for seed of the field and for your food and for those of your households and as food for your little ones.”" 
Genesis47:25 So they said, “You have kept us alive! Let us find favor in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh’s slaves.”" 
Genesis47:26 And Joseph made it a statute concerning the land of Egypt valid to this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth; only the land of the priests did not become Pharaoh’s." 
Genesis47:27 Now Israel lived in the land of Egypt, in Goshen, and they took possession of property in it and were fruitful and became very numerous." 
Genesis47:28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years; so the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were 147 years." 
Genesis47:29 Then the days for Israel to die drew near, and he called his son Joseph and said to him, “Please, if I have found favor in your sight, place now your hand under my thigh and deal with me in lovingkindness and truth. Please do not bury me in Egypt." 
Genesis47:30 But I will lie down with my fathers, and you will carry me out of Egypt and bury me in their burial place.” And he said, “I will do as you have said.”" 
Genesis47:31 Then he said, “Swear to me.” So he swore to him. Then Israel bowed in worship at the head of the bed." 
Genesis48:1 Now it happened after these things that Joseph was told, “Behold, your father is sick.” So he took his two sons Manasseh and Ephraim with him." 
Genesis48:2 Then it was told to Jacob, “Behold, your son Joseph has come to you,” so Israel strengthened himself and sat up in the bed." 
Genesis48:3 Then Jacob said to Joseph, “God Almighty appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me," 
Genesis48:4 and He said to me, ‘Behold, I will make you fruitful and multiply, and I will make you an assembly of peoples, and I will give this land to your seed after you for an everlasting possession.’" 
Genesis48:5 So now your two sons, who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt, are mine; Ephraim and Manasseh shall be mine, as Reuben and Simeon are." 
Genesis48:6 But your kin that have been born after them shall be yours; they shall be called by the names of their brothers in their inheritance. 
Genesis48:7 Now as for me, when I came from Paddan, Rachel died, to my sorrow, in the land of Canaan on the journey, when there was still some distance to go to Ephrath; and I buried her there on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem).”" 
Genesis48:8 Then Israel saw Joseph’s sons and said, “Who are these?”" 
Genesis48:9 And Joseph said to his father, “They are my sons, whom God has given me here.” So he said, “Bring them to me, please, that I may bless them.”" 
Genesis48:10 Now the eyes of Israel were so dim from age that he could not see. Then Joseph brought them close to him, and he kissed them and embraced them." 
Genesis48:11 Then Israel said to Joseph, “I never expected to see your face, and behold, God has let me see your seed as well.”" 
Genesis48:12 Then Joseph took them from his knees and bowed with his face to the ground. 
Genesis48:13 And Joseph took them both, Ephraim with his right hand toward Israel’s left, and Manasseh with his left hand toward Israel’s right, and brought them close to him." 
Genesis48:14 But Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it on the head of Ephraim, who was the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh’s head, crossing his hands, although Manasseh was the firstborn." 
Genesis48:15 And he blessed Joseph and said, “May the God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, The God who has been my shepherd throughout my life to this day," 
Genesis48:16 The angel who has redeemed me from all evil, Bless these boys; And may my name live on in them, And the names of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; And may they grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.”" 
Genesis48:17 But Joseph saw that his father set his right hand on Ephraim’s head, and it was displeasing in his sight; so he took hold of his father’s hand to remove it from Ephraim’s head to Manasseh’s head." 
Genesis48:18 And Joseph said to his father, “Not so, my father, for this one is the firstborn. Place your right hand on his head.”" 
Genesis48:19 But his father refused and said, “I know, my son, I know; he also will become a people, and he also will be great. However, his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become the fullness of nations.”" 
Genesis48:20 And he blessed them that day, saying, “By you Israel will pronounce blessing, saying, ‘May God make you like Ephraim and Manasseh!’” Thus he put Ephraim before Manasseh." 
Genesis48:21 Then Israel said to Joseph, “Behold, I am about to die, but God will be with you and will bring you back to the land of your fathers." 
Genesis48:22 And I give you one portion more than your brothers, which I took from the hand of the Amorite with my sword and my bow.”" 
Genesis49:1 Then Jacob summoned his sons and said, “Gather together that I may tell you what will befall you in the last days." 
Genesis49:2 Assemble together and hear, O sons of Jacob; And listen to Israel your father." 
Genesis49:3 “Reuben, you are my firstborn; My might and the beginning of my vigor, Preeminent in dignity and preeminent in strength." 
Genesis49:4 Uncontrolled as water, you shall not have preeminence, Because you went up to your father’s bed; Then you defiled it—he went up to my couch." 
Genesis49:5 “Simeon and Levi are brothers; Their swords are implements of violence. 
Genesis49:6 Let my soul not enter into their council; Let not my glory be united with their assembly; Because in their anger they killed men, And in their self‑will they hamstrung oxen." 
Genesis49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it is strong; And their wrath, for it is cruel. I will divide them amongst Jacob, And scatter them in Israel." 
Genesis49:8 “Judah, as for you, your brothers shall praise you; Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies; Your father’s sons shall bow down to you." 
Genesis49:9 Judah is a lion’s whelp; From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He crouches, he lies down as a lion, And as a lioness, who dares rouse him up?" 
Genesis49:10 The scepter shall not depart from Judah, Nor the ruler’s staff from between his feet, Until Shiloh comes, And to him shall be the obedience of the peoples." 
Genesis49:11 He ties his foal to the vine, And his donkey’s colt to the choice vine; He washes his garments in wine, And his robes in the blood of grapes." 
Genesis49:12 His eyes are dark from wine, And his teeth white from milk." 
Genesis49:13 “Zebulun will dwell at the seashore; And he shall be a shore for ships, And his flank shall be toward Sidon." 
Genesis49:14 “Issachar is a strong donkey, Lying down between the sheepfolds." 
Genesis49:15 And he saw that a resting place was good And that the land was pleasant, So he bowed his shoulder to bear burdens, And became a slave at forced labor." 
Genesis49:16 “Dan shall render justice to his people, As one of the tribes of Israel." 
Genesis49:17 Dan shall be a serpent in the way, A horned snake in the path, That bites the horse’s heels, So that his rider falls backward." 
Genesis49:18 For Your salvation I hope, O Yahweh." 
Genesis49:19 “As for Gad, raiders shall raid him, But he will raid at their heels." 
Genesis49:20 “As for Asher, his food shall be rich, And he will yield royal dainties." 
Genesis49:21 “Naphtali is a doe let loose, He gives beautiful words." 
Genesis49:22 “Joseph is a fruitful bough, A fruitful bough by a spring; Its branches run over a wall." 
Genesis49:23 And the archers bitterly attacked him and shot at him, And they bore a grudge against him;" 
Genesis49:24 But his bow remained firm, And his arms were agile, From the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob, From there is the Shepherd, the Stone of Israel," 
Genesis49:25 From the God of your father who helps you, And by the Almighty who blesses you With blessings of heaven above, Blessings of the deep that lies beneath, Blessings of the breasts and of the womb." 
Genesis49:26 The blessings of your father Have surpassed the blessings of my ancestors Up to the utmost bound of the everlasting hills; May they be on the head of Joseph, And on the top of the head of the one distinguished among his brothers." 
Genesis49:27 “Benjamin is a ravenous wolf; In the morning he devours the prey, And in the evening he divides the spoil.”" 
Genesis49:28 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel, and this is what their father spoke to them. So he blessed them. He blessed them, every one with the blessing appropriate to him." 
Genesis49:29 Then he commanded them and said to them, “I am about to be gathered to my people; bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite," 
Genesis49:30 in the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought along with the field from Ephron the Hittite as a possession for a burial site." 
Genesis49:31 There they buried Abraham and his wife Sarah, there they buried Isaac and his wife Rebekah, and there I buried Leah—" 
Genesis49:32 the field and the cave that is in it, purchased from the sons of Heth.”" 
Genesis49:33 So Jacob finished commanding his sons. And he drew his feet into the bed and breathed his last and was gathered to his people. 
Genesis50:1 Then Joseph fell on his father’s face and wept over him and kissed him. 
Genesis50:2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father. So the physicians embalmed Israel. 
Genesis50:3 Then the forty days to do this were fulfilled, because in this manner the days of embalming are fulfilled. And the Egyptians wept for him seventy days." 
Genesis50:4 Then the days of weeping for him were past, and Joseph spoke to the household of Pharaoh, saying, “If now I have found favor in your sight, please speak in the ears of Pharaoh, saying," 
Genesis50:5 ‘My father made me swear, saying, “Behold, I am about to die; in my grave which I dug for myself in the land of Canaan, there you shall bury me.” So now, please let me go up and bury my father; then I will return.’”" 
Genesis50:6 And Pharaoh said, “Go up and bury your father, as he made you swear.”" 
Genesis50:7 So Joseph went up to bury his father, and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his household, and all the elders of the land of Egypt," 
Genesis50:8 and all the household of Joseph and his brothers and his father’s household; they left only their little ones and their flocks and their herds in the land of Goshen. 
Genesis50:9 There also went up with him both chariots and horsemen; and it was a very immense camp. 
Genesis50:10 And they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond the Jordan, and they lamented there with a very great and immense lamentation; and he observed seven days of mourning for his father." 
Genesis50:11 Now the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning at the threshing floor of Atad, and they said, “This is an immense mourning for the Egyptians.” Therefore it was named Abel-mizraim, which is beyond the Jordan." 
Genesis50:12 Thus his sons did for him as he had commanded them. 
Genesis50:13 Indeed, his sons carried him to the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre, which Abraham had bought along with the field for his possession as a burial site from Ephron the Hittite." 
Genesis50:14 After he had buried his father, Joseph returned to Egypt, he and his brothers, and all who had gone up with him to bury his father." 
Genesis50:15 Then Joseph’s brothers saw that their father was dead, and they said, “What if Joseph bears a grudge against us and returns back to us all the evil which we dealt against him!”" 
Genesis50:16 So they sent a message to Joseph, saying, “Your father commanded before he died, saying," 
Genesis50:17 ‘Thus you shall say to Joseph, “Please forgive, I beg you, the transgression of your brothers and their sin, for they dealt evil against you.”’ So now, please forgive the transgression of the slaves of the God of your father.” And Joseph wept when they spoke to him." 
Genesis50:18 Then his brothers also came and fell down before him and said, “Behold, we are your slaves.”" 
Genesis50:19 But Joseph said to them, “Do not be afraid, for am I in God’s place?" 
Genesis50:20 As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to do what has happened on this day, to keep many people alive." 
Genesis50:21 So now, do not be afraid; I will provide for you and your little ones.” And he comforted them and spoke to their heart." 
Genesis50:22 Now Joseph stayed in Egypt, he and his father’s household, and Joseph lived 110 years." 
Genesis50:23 And Joseph saw the third generation of Ephraim’s sons; also the sons of Machir, the son of Manasseh, were born on Joseph’s knees." 
Genesis50:24 And Joseph said to his brothers, “I am about to die, but God will surely take care of you and bring you up from this land to the land which He swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.”" 
Genesis50:25 Then Joseph made the sons of Israel swear, saying, “God will surely take care of you, and you shall carry my bones up from here.”" 
Genesis50:26 So Joseph died at the age of 110 years; and they embalmed him, and he was placed in a coffin in Egypt." 
Exodus1:1 Now these are the names of the sons of Israel who came to Egypt with Jacob; they came each one with his household: 
Exodus1:2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah;" 
Exodus1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin;" 
Exodus1:4 Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher." 
Exodus1:5 And all the persons who came from the loins of Jacob were seventy in number, but Joseph was already in Egypt." 
Exodus1:6 Then Joseph died, and all his brothers and all that generation." 
Exodus1:7 But the sons of Israel were fruitful and increased and multiplied and became exceedingly mighty, so that the land was filled with them." 
Exodus1:8 And a new king arose over Egypt, who did not know Joseph." 
Exodus1:9 And he said to his people, “Behold, the people of the sons of Israel are more and mightier than we." 
Exodus1:10 Come, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply and it be in the event of war, that they also join themselves to those who hate us and fight against us and go up from the land.”" 
Exodus1:11 So they appointed taskmasters over them to afflict them with hard labors. And they built for Pharaoh storage cities, Pithom and Raamses." 
Exodus1:12 But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and the more they spread out, so that they were in dread of the sons of Israel." 
Exodus1:13 So the Egyptians brutally compelled the sons of Israel to slave labor; 
Exodus1:14 and they made their lives bitter with hard slave labor in mortar and bricks and in all kinds of slave labor in the field, all their slave labor which they brutally compelled them to do." 
Exodus1:15 Then the king of Egypt spoke to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Shiphrah and the other was named Puah;" 
Exodus1:16 and he said, “When you are helping the Hebrew women to give birth and see them upon the birthstool, if it is a son, then you shall put him to death; but if it is a daughter, then she shall live.”" 
Exodus1:17 But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt had spoken to them, but let the boys live." 
Exodus1:18 So the king of Egypt called for the midwives and said to them, “Why have you done this thing, and let the boys live?”" 
Exodus1:19 Then the midwives said to Pharaoh, “Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women; for they are vigorous and give birth before the midwife can come to them.”" 
Exodus1:20 So God was good to the midwives, and the people multiplied and became very mighty." 
Exodus1:21 Now it happened that because the midwives feared God, He made households for them." 
Exodus1:22 And Pharaoh commanded all his people, saying, “Every son who is born you are to cast into the Nile, and every daughter you are to keep alive.”" 
Exodus2:1 And a man from the house of Levi went and took a daughter of Levi as a wife. 
Exodus2:2 And the woman conceived and bore a son; and she saw that he was beautiful, so she hid him for three months." 
Exodus2:3 But she could not hide him any longer. So she took for him an ark of papyrus reeds and covered it over with tar and pitch. Then she put the child into it and put it among the reeds by the bank of the Nile. 
Exodus2:4 And his sister stood at a distance to know what would be done to him. 
Exodus2:5 And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the Nile, with her young women walking alongside the Nile; and she saw the ark among the reeds and sent her maidservant, and she took it to her." 
Exodus2:6 Then she opened it and saw the child. And behold, the boy was crying. And she had pity on him and said, “This is one of the Hebrews’ children.”" 
Exodus2:7 Then his sister said to Pharaoh’s daughter, “Shall I go and call a nurse for you from the Hebrew women that she may nurse the child for you?”" 
Exodus2:8 And Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, “Go.” So the girl went and called the child’s mother." 
Exodus2:9 Then Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, “Take this child away and nurse him for me, and I will give you your wages.” So the woman took the child and nursed him." 
Exodus2:10 And the child grew, and she brought him to Pharaoh’s daughter, and he became her son. And she named him Moses and said, “Because I drew him out of the water.”" 
Exodus2:11 Now it happened in those days, that Moses had grown up. And he went out to his brothers and looked on their hard labors. And he saw an Egyptian striking a Hebrew, one of his brothers." 
Exodus2:12 So he turned this way and that, and he saw that there was no one around. So he struck down the Egyptian and hid him in the sand." 
Exodus2:13 Then he went out the next day, and behold, two Hebrews were struggling with each other; and he said to the wicked one, “Why are you striking your companion?”" 
Exodus2:14 But he said, “Who made you a ruler or a judge over us? Are you intending to kill me as you killed the Egyptian?” Then Moses was afraid and said, “Surely the matter has become known.”" 
Exodus2:15 And Pharaoh heard of this matter, so he sought to kill Moses. But Moses fled from the presence of Pharaoh and settled in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well." 
Exodus2:16 Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters; and they came and drew water and filled the troughs to give water to their father’s flock to drink. 
Exodus2:17 Then the shepherds came and drove them away, but Moses rose up and saved them and gave water to their flock to drink." 
Exodus2:18 Then they came to Reuel their father, and he said, “Why have you come back so soon today?”" 
Exodus2:19 So they said, “An Egyptian delivered us from the hand of the shepherds, and he actually even drew the water for us and gave water to the flock to drink.”" 
Exodus2:20 And he said to his daughters, “Where is he then? Why is it that you have left the man behind? Call him so that he may eat bread.”" 
Exodus2:21 And Moses was willing to settle down with the man, and he gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses." 
Exodus2:22 Then she gave birth to a son, and he named him Gershom, for he said, “I have been a sojourner in a foreign land.”" 
Exodus2:23 Now it happened in the course of those many days that the king of Egypt died. And the sons of Israel sighed because of the slavery, and they cried out; and their cry for help because of their slavery rose up to God." 
Exodus2:24 So God heard their groaning; and God remembered His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." 
Exodus2:25 And God saw the sons of Israel, and God knew them." 
Exodus3:1 Now Moses was pasturing the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian; and he led the flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God." 
Exodus3:2 And the angel of Yahweh appeared to him in a blazing fire from the midst of the bush; and he looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire, yet the bush was not consumed." 
Exodus3:3 So Moses said, “I must turn aside now and see this marvelous sight. Why is the bush not burned up?”" 
Exodus3:4 And Yahweh saw that he turned aside to look, so God called to him from the midst of the bush and said, “Moses, Moses!” And he said, “Here I am.”" 
Exodus3:5 Then He said, “Do not come near here. Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.”" 
Exodus3:6 He said also, “I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” Then Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God." 
Exodus3:7 And Yahweh said, “I have surely seen the affliction of My people who are in Egypt, and I have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sufferings." 
Exodus3:8 So I have come down to deliver them from the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up from that land to a good and spacious land, to a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanite and the Hittite and the Amorite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite." 
Exodus3:9 So now, behold, the cry of the sons of Israel has come to Me; and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians are oppressing them." 
Exodus3:10 So now, come and I will send you to Pharaoh, and so you shall bring My people, the sons of Israel, out of Egypt.”" 
Exodus3:11 But Moses said to God, “Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, and that I should bring the sons of Israel out of Egypt?”" 
Exodus3:12 And He said, “Certainly I will be with you, and this shall be the sign to you that it is I who have sent you: when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God at this mountain.”" 
Exodus3:13 Then Moses said to God, “Behold, I am about to come to the sons of Israel, and I will say to them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you.’ And they will say to me, ‘What is His name?’ What shall I say to them?”" 
Exodus3:14 And God said to Moses, “I AM WHO I AM”; and He said, “Thus you shall say to the sons of Israel, ‘I AM has sent me to you.’”" 
Exodus3:15 And God furthermore said to Moses, “Thus you shall say to the sons of Israel, ‘Yahweh, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you.’ This is My name forever, and this is My memorial-name from generation to generation." 
Exodus3:16 Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, ‘Yahweh, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, “I indeed care about you and what has been done to you in Egypt." 
Exodus3:17 So I said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanite and the Hittite and the Amorite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite, to a land flowing with milk and honey.”’" 
Exodus3:18 And they will listen to your voice; and you with the elders of Israel will come to the king of Egypt, and you all will say to him, ‘Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. So now, please, let us go a three days’ journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to Yahweh our God.’" 
Exodus3:19 But I know that the king of Egypt will not give you permission to go, except by a strong hand." 
Exodus3:20 So I will stretch out My hand and strike Egypt with all My wondrous deeds which I shall do in the midst of it; and after that he will let you go. 
Exodus3:21 And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians; and it shall be that when you go, you will not go empty." 
Exodus3:22 But every woman shall ask of her neighbor and of the woman who lives in her house, for articles of silver and articles of gold, and clothing; and you will put them on your sons and daughters. Thus you will plunder the Egyptians.”" 
Exodus4:1 Then Moses answered and said, “What if they will not believe me and will not listen to my voice? For they may say, ‘Yahweh has not appeared to you.’”" 
Exodus4:2 And Yahweh said to him, “What is this in your hand?” And he said, “A staff.”" 
Exodus4:3 Then He said, “Throw it on the ground.” So he threw it on the ground, and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from it." 
Exodus4:4 And Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand and grasp it by its tail”—so he stretched out his hand and took hold of it, and it became a staff in his hand—" 
Exodus4:5 “that they may believe that Yahweh, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you.”" 
Exodus4:6 And Yahweh furthermore said to him, “Now put your hand into your bosom.” So he put his hand into his bosom; then he took it out, and behold, his hand was leprous like snow." 
Exodus4:7 Then He said, “Return your hand into your bosom.” So he returned his hand into his bosom, and when he took it out of his bosom, behold, it returned to being like the rest of his flesh." 
Exodus4:8 “And so it will be, if they will not believe you or listen to the witness of the first sign, they may believe the witness of this last sign." 
Exodus4:9 But if it will be that they will not believe even these two signs and that they will not listen to your voice, then you shall take some water from the Nile and pour it on the dry land; and the water which you take from the Nile will become blood on the dry land.”" 
Exodus4:10 Then Moses said to Yahweh, “Please, Lord, I have never been a man of words, neither recently nor in time past, nor since You have spoken to Your slave; for I am one with a hard mouth and a hard tongue.”" 
Exodus4:11 And Yahweh said to him, “Who has made man’s mouth? Or who makes him mute or deaf, or seeing or blind? Is it not I, Yahweh?" 
Exodus4:12 So now, go, and I, even I, will be with your mouth and will instruct you what you shall speak.”" 
Exodus4:13 But he said, “Please, Lord, send now the message by whomever You will.”" 
Exodus4:14 Then the anger of Yahweh burned against Moses, and He said, “Is there not your brother Aaron the Levite? I know that he can certainly speak. And moreover, behold, he is coming out to meet you. And he will see you and be glad in his heart." 
Exodus4:15 And you are to speak to him and put the words in his mouth; and I, even I, will be with your mouth and with his mouth, and I will instruct you in what you shall do." 
Exodus4:16 Moreover, he shall speak for you to the people; and he will become as a mouth for you, and you will become as God to him." 
Exodus4:17 And you shall take in your hand this staff, with which you shall do the signs.”" 
Exodus4:18 Then Moses went and returned to Jethro his father-in-law and said to him, “Please, let me go, that I may return to my brothers who are in Egypt and see if they are still alive.” And Jethro said to Moses, “Go in peace.”" 
Exodus4:19 And Yahweh said to Moses in Midian, “Go, return to Egypt, for all the men who were seeking your life are dead.”" 
Exodus4:20 So Moses took his wife and his sons and mounted them on a donkey and returned to the land of Egypt. Moses also took the staff of God in his hand. 
Exodus4:21 And Yahweh said to Moses, “When you go to return to Egypt, see to it that all the miraculous wonders which I have put in your hand, that you do them before Pharaoh; but as for Me, I will harden his heart with strength so that he will not let the people go." 
Exodus4:22 Then you shall say to Pharaoh, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Israel is My son, My firstborn." 
Exodus4:23 So I said to you, ‘Let My son go that he may serve Me’; but you have refused to let him go. Behold, I will kill your son, your firstborn.”’”" 
Exodus4:24 Now it happened at the lodging place on the way that Yahweh encountered him and sought to put him to death. 
Exodus4:25 Then Zipporah took a flint and cut off her son’s foreskin and touched his feet with it, and she said, “You are indeed a bridegroom of blood to me!”" 
Exodus4:26 So He let him alone. At that time she said, “You are a bridegroom of blood” with reference to the circumcision." 
Exodus4:27 Then Yahweh said to Aaron, “Go to meet Moses in the wilderness.” So he went and encountered him at the mountain of God and kissed him." 
Exodus4:28 And Moses told Aaron all the words of Yahweh with which He had sent him, and all the signs that He had commanded him to do." 
Exodus4:29 Then Moses and Aaron went and gathered all the elders of the sons of Israel; 
Exodus4:30 and Aaron spoke all the words which Yahweh had spoken to Moses. He then did the signs in the sight of the people. 
Exodus4:31 So the people believed; and they heard that Yahweh cared about the sons of Israel and that He had seen their affliction. So they bowed low and worshiped. 
Exodus5:1 And afterward Moses and Aaron came and said to Pharaoh, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Let My people go that they may celebrate a feast to Me in the wilderness.’”" 
Exodus5:2 But Pharaoh said, “Who is Yahweh that I should listen to His voice to let Israel go? I do not know Yahweh, and also, I will not let Israel go.”" 
Exodus5:3 Then they said, “The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please, let us go a three days’ journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to Yahweh our God, lest He confront us with pestilence or with the sword.”" 
Exodus5:4 But the king of Egypt said to them, “Moses and Aaron, why do you draw the people away from their work? Get back to your hard labors!”" 
Exodus5:5 And Pharaoh said, “Look, the people of the land are now many, and you would have them cease from their hard labors!”" 
Exodus5:6 So on that day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters over the people and their foremen, saying," 
Exodus5:7 “You are no longer to give the people straw to make brick as previously; let them go and gather straw for themselves. 
Exodus5:8 But the quota of bricks which they were making previously, you shall set upon them; you are not to reduce any of it. Because they are lazy, therefore they are crying out, ‘Let us go and sacrifice to our God.’" 
Exodus5:9 Let their slavery be hard on the men, and let them work at it so that they will have no regard for false words.”" 
Exodus5:10 So the taskmasters of the people and their foremen went out and spoke to the people, saying, “Thus says Pharaoh, ‘I am not going to give you any straw." 
Exodus5:11 You go and get straw for yourselves wherever you can find it, but no amount of your slave labor will be reduced.’”" 
Exodus5:12 So the people scattered through all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw. 
Exodus5:13 And the taskmasters were pressing them, saying, “Complete your work quota, the daily amount, just as when there was straw.”" 
Exodus5:14 Moreover, the foremen of the sons of Israel, whom Pharaoh’s taskmasters had set over them, were beaten and were asked, “Why have you not completed your required amount either yesterday or today in making brick as previously?”" 
Exodus5:15 Then the foremen of the sons of Israel came and cried out to Pharaoh, saying, “Why do you deal this way with your slaves?" 
Exodus5:16 There is no straw given to your slaves, yet they keep saying to us, ‘Make bricks!’ And behold, your slaves are being beaten; but it is the sin of your own people.”" 
Exodus5:17 But he said, “You are lazy—lazy! Therefore you say, ‘Let us go and sacrifice to Yahweh.’" 
Exodus5:18 So now, go and labor; but straw will not be given to you, yet you must deliver the quota of bricks.”" 
Exodus5:19 Then the foremen of the sons of Israel saw that they were in trouble because they were told, “You must not reduce your daily amount of bricks.”" 
Exodus5:20 When they left Pharaoh’s presence, they confronted Moses and Aaron, standing there to meet them." 
Exodus5:21 And they said to them, “May Yahweh look upon you and judge, for you have made us a foul smell in Pharaoh’s sight and in the sight of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to kill us.”" 
Exodus5:22 Then Moses returned to Yahweh and said, “O Lord, why have You brought harm to this people? Why did You ever send me?" 
Exodus5:23 Ever since I came to Pharaoh to speak in Your name, he has done harm to this people, and You have not delivered Your people at all.”" 
Exodus6:1 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh; for by a strong hand he will let them go, and by a strong hand he will drive them out of his land.”" 
Exodus6:2 God spoke further to Moses and said to him, “I am Yahweh;" 
Exodus6:3 and I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, as God Almighty, but by My name, Yahweh, I was not known to them." 
Exodus6:4 And I also established My covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they sojourned." 
Exodus6:5 Furthermore I have heard the groaning of the sons of Israel because the Egyptians are holding them in slavery, and I have remembered My covenant." 
Exodus6:6 Say, therefore, to the sons of Israel, ‘I am Yahweh, and I will bring you out from under the hard labors of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their slavery. I will also redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments." 
Exodus6:7 Then I will take you for My people, and I will be your God; and you shall know that I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out from under the hard labors of the Egyptians." 
Exodus6:8 And I will bring you to the land which I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and I will give it to you for a possession; I am Yahweh.’”" 
Exodus6:9 So Moses spoke thus to the sons of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses on account of their weakness of spirit and hard slavery." 
Exodus6:10 Now Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus6:11 “Come, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt to let the sons of Israel go out of his land.”" 
Exodus6:12 But Moses spoke before Yahweh, saying, “Behold, the sons of Israel have not listened to me; how then will Pharaoh listen to me, for I am of uncircumcised lips?”" 
Exodus6:13 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron and gave them a command for the sons of Israel and for Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt." 
Exodus6:14 These are the heads of their fathers’ households. The sons of Reuben, Israel’s firstborn: Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben." 
Exodus6:15 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Simeon. 
Exodus6:16 These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon and Kohath and Merari; and the years of Levi’s life were 137 years. 
Exodus6:17 The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families." 
Exodus6:18 The sons of Kohath: Amram and Izhar and Hebron and Uzziel; and the years of Kohath’s life were 133 years. 
Exodus6:19 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations. 
Exodus6:20 And Amram took his father’s sister Jochebed as a wife, and she bore him Aaron and Moses; and the years of Amram’s life were 137 years." 
Exodus6:21 The sons of Izhar: Korah and Nepheg and Zichri. 
Exodus6:22 The sons of Uzziel: Mishael and Elzaphan and Sithri. 
Exodus6:23 And Aaron took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, as a wife, and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
Exodus6:24 The sons of Korah: Assir and Elkanah and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites. 
Exodus6:25 And Aaron’s son Eleazar took one of the daughters of Putiel as a wife, and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers’ households of the Levites according to their families." 
Exodus6:26 It was the same Aaron and Moses to whom Yahweh said, “Bring out the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their hosts.”" 
Exodus6:27 They were the ones who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt to bring out the sons of Israel from Egypt; it was the same Moses and Aaron. 
Exodus6:28 Now it happened on the day when Yahweh spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt," 
Exodus6:29 that Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, “I am Yahweh; speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I am speaking to you.”" 
Exodus6:30 But Moses said before Yahweh, “Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips; how then will Pharaoh listen to me?”" 
Exodus7:1 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “See, I set you as God to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron shall be your prophet." 
Exodus7:2 You shall speak all that I command you, and your brother Aaron shall speak to Pharaoh that he let the sons of Israel go out of his land." 
Exodus7:3 But I will harden Pharaoh’s heart with stiffness that I may multiply My signs and My wonders in the land of Egypt. 
Exodus7:4 But Pharaoh will not listen to you. And I will set My hand upon Egypt and bring out My hosts, My people the sons of Israel, from the land of Egypt by great judgments." 
Exodus7:5 Then the Egyptians shall know that I am Yahweh, when I stretch out My hand against Egypt and bring out the sons of Israel from their midst.”" 
Exodus7:6 So Moses and Aaron did it; as Yahweh commanded them, thus they did." 
Exodus7:7 Now Moses was eighty years old and Aaron eighty-three years old, when they spoke to Pharaoh." 
Exodus7:8 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying," 
Exodus7:9 “When Pharaoh speaks to you, saying, ‘Work a miraculous wonder,’ then you shall say to Aaron, ‘Take your staff and throw it down before Pharaoh, that it may become a serpent.’”" 
Exodus7:10 So Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh, and thus they did just as Yahweh had commanded; and Aaron threw his staff down before Pharaoh and his servants, and it became a serpent." 
Exodus7:11 Then Pharaoh also called for the wise men and the sorcerers, and they also, the magicians of Egypt, did the same with their secret arts." 
Exodus7:12 And each one threw down his staff, and they became serpents. But Aaron’s staff swallowed up their staffs." 
Exodus7:13 Yet Pharaoh’s heart was hardened with strength, and he did not listen to them, as Yahweh had spoken." 
Exodus7:14 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Pharaoh’s heart is hard with firmness; he refuses to let the people go." 
Exodus7:15 Go to Pharaoh in the morning as he is going out to the water, and station yourself to meet him on the bank of the Nile; and you shall take in your hand the staff that was turned into a serpent." 
Exodus7:16 And you shall say to him, ‘Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, sent me to you, saying, “Let My people go, that they may serve Me in the wilderness. But behold, you have not listened until now.”" 
Exodus7:17 Thus says Yahweh, “By this you shall know that I am Yahweh: behold, I am about to strike the water that is in the Nile with the staff that is in my hand, and it will be turned to blood." 
Exodus7:18 And the fish that are in the Nile will die, and the Nile will become foul, and the Egyptians will be weary of drinking water from the Nile.”’”" 
Exodus7:19 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Say to Aaron, ‘Take your staff and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt, over their rivers, over their streams, and over their pools and over all their reservoirs of water, that they may become blood; and there will be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone.’”" 
Exodus7:20 So Moses and Aaron did thus, as Yahweh had commanded. And he raised up the staff and struck the water that was in the Nile, in the sight of Pharaoh and in the sight of his servants, and all the water that was in the Nile was turned to blood." 
Exodus7:21 And the fish that were in the Nile died, and the Nile became foul, so that the Egyptians could not drink water from the Nile. And the blood was through all the land of Egypt." 
Exodus7:22 Yet the magicians of Egypt did the same with their secret arts; and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened with strength, and he did not listen to them, as Yahweh had spoken." 
Exodus7:23 Then Pharaoh turned and went into his house, and he did not set his heart even on this." 
Exodus7:24 So all the Egyptians dug around the Nile for water to drink, for they could not drink of the water of the Nile." 
Exodus7:25 And seven full days passed after Yahweh had struck the Nile. 
Exodus8:1 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Come to Pharaoh and say to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus8:2 But if you refuse to let them go, behold, I will smite your whole territory with frogs." 
Exodus8:3 And the Nile will swarm with frogs, and they will go up and come into your house and into your bedroom and on your bed and into the houses of your servants and on your people and into your ovens and into your kneading bowls." 
Exodus8:4 So the frogs will come up on you and on your people and on all your servants.”’” 
Exodus8:5 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Say to Aaron, ‘Stretch out your hand with your staff over the rivers, over the streams and over the pools, and cause the frogs to come up on the land of Egypt.’”" 
Exodus8:6 So Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt." 
Exodus8:7 And the magicians did the same with their secret arts; they caused the frogs to come up on the land of Egypt. 
Exodus8:8 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron and said, “Entreat Yahweh that He may cause the frogs to depart from me and from my people; and I will let the people go, that they may sacrifice to Yahweh.”" 
Exodus8:9 And Moses said to Pharaoh, “May the honor be yours to tell me: when shall I entreat for you and for your servants and for your people, that the frogs be cut off from you and your houses, that they may remain only in the Nile?”" 
Exodus8:10 Then he said, “Tomorrow.” So he said, “May it be according to your word, that you may know that there is no one like Yahweh our God." 
Exodus8:11 And the frogs will depart from you and your houses and your servants and your people; they will remain only in the Nile.” 
Exodus8:12 Then Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried out to Yahweh concerning the frogs which He had set upon Pharaoh." 
Exodus8:13 So Yahweh did according to the word of Moses, and the frogs died out of the houses, the courts, and the fields." 
Exodus8:14 So they piled them in heaps, and the land became foul." 
Exodus8:15 Then Pharaoh saw that there was relief, and he hardened his heart with firmness and did not listen to them, as Yahweh had spoken." 
Exodus8:16 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Say to Aaron, ‘Stretch out your staff and strike the dust of the earth, that it may become gnats through all the land of Egypt.’”" 
Exodus8:17 And they did so; and Aaron stretched out his hand with his staff and struck the dust of the earth, and there were gnats on man and beast. All the dust of the earth became gnats through all the land of Egypt." 
Exodus8:18 Then the magicians did the same with their secret arts in order to bring forth gnats, but they could not; so there were gnats on man and beast." 
Exodus8:19 And the magicians said to Pharaoh, “This is the finger of God.” But Pharaoh’s heart was hardened with strength, and he did not listen to them, as Yahweh had spoken." 
Exodus8:20 And Yahweh said to Moses, “Rise early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh as he comes out to the water, and you shall say to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus8:21 For if you do not let My people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies on you and on your servants and on your people and into your houses; and the houses of the Egyptians will be full of swarms of flies, and also the ground on which they stand." 
Exodus8:22 But on that day I will make a distinction for the land of Goshen, where My people are living, so that no swarms of flies will be there, that you may know that I, Yahweh, am in the midst of the land." 
Exodus8:23 And I will put a division between My people and your people. Tomorrow this sign will happen.”’” 
Exodus8:24 Then Yahweh did so. And there came heavy swarms of flies into the house of Pharaoh and the houses of his servants, and the land was laid waste because of the swarms of flies in all the land of Egypt." 
Exodus8:25 And Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron and said, “Go, sacrifice to your God within the land.”" 
Exodus8:26 But Moses said, “It is not right to do so, for we will sacrifice to Yahweh our God what is an abomination to the Egyptians. If we sacrifice what is an abomination to the Egyptians before their eyes, will they not then stone us?" 
Exodus8:27 We must go a three days’ journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to Yahweh our God as He says to us.” 
Exodus8:28 And Pharaoh said, “I will let you go, that you may sacrifice to Yahweh your God in the wilderness; only you shall not go very far away. Entreat for me.”" 
Exodus8:29 Then Moses said, “Behold, I am going out from you, and I shall entreat Yahweh that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people tomorrow; only may Pharaoh not deal deceitfully again in not letting the people go to sacrifice to Yahweh.”" 
Exodus8:30 So Moses went out from Pharaoh and entreated Yahweh. 
Exodus8:31 And Yahweh did according to the word of Moses and caused the swarms of flies to depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people; not one remained." 
Exodus8:32 Then Pharaoh hardened his heart with firmness this time also, and he did not let the people go." 
Exodus9:1 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Come to Pharaoh and speak to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, “Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus9:2 For if you refuse to let them go and continue to hold them," 
Exodus9:3 behold, the hand of Yahweh will come with a very heavy pestilence on your livestock which are in the field, on the horses, on the donkeys, on the camels, on the herds, and on the flocks." 
Exodus9:4 But Yahweh will make a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, so that nothing will die of all that belongs to the sons of Israel.”’”" 
Exodus9:5 Yahweh also set a definite time, saying, “Tomorrow Yahweh will do this thing in the land.”" 
Exodus9:6 So Yahweh did this thing on the next day, and all the livestock of Egypt died; but of the livestock of the sons of Israel, not one died." 
Exodus9:7 And Pharaoh sent, and behold, there was not even one of the livestock of Israel dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was hardened with firmness, and he did not let the people go." 
Exodus9:8 Then Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron, “Take for yourselves handfuls of soot from a kiln, and let Moses toss it toward the sky in the sight of Pharaoh." 
Exodus9:9 And it will become fine dust over all the land of Egypt, and it will become boils breaking out with sores on man and beast through all the land of Egypt.”" 
Exodus9:10 So they took the soot from the kiln and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses tossed it toward the sky, and it became boils breaking out with sores on man and beast." 
Exodus9:11 And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boils were on the magicians as well as on all the Egyptians." 
Exodus9:12 And Yahweh hardened Pharaoh’s heart with strength, and he did not listen to them, just as Yahweh had spoken to Moses." 
Exodus9:13 And Yahweh said to Moses, “Rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh, and you shall say to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, “Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus9:14 For this time I will send all My plagues against your heart and amongst your servants and your people, so that you may know that there is no one like Me in all the earth." 
Exodus9:15 For if by now I had sent forth My hand and struck you and your people with pestilence, you would then have been wiped out from the earth." 
Exodus9:16 But, indeed, for this reason I have caused you to stand, in order to show you My power and in order to recount My name through all the earth." 
Exodus9:17 Still you exalt yourself against My people by not letting them go. 
Exodus9:18 Behold, about this time tomorrow, I will rain down very heavy hail, such as has not been seen in Egypt from the day it was founded until now." 
Exodus9:19 So now, send, bring your livestock and whatever you have in the field to safety. Every man and beast that is found in the field and is not brought home, the hail will come down on them, and they will die.”’”" 
Exodus9:20 The one among the servants of Pharaoh who feared the word of Yahweh made his servants and his livestock flee into the houses; 
Exodus9:21 but he who did not consider in his heart the word of Yahweh left his servants and his livestock in the field. 
Exodus9:22 Now Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand toward the sky, that there may be hail on all the land of Egypt, on man and on beast and on every plant of the field, throughout the land of Egypt.”" 
Exodus9:23 So Moses stretched out his staff toward the sky, and Yahweh gave forth thunder and hail, and fire went down to the earth. And Yahweh rained down hail on the land of Egypt." 
Exodus9:24 So there was hail, and fire flashing continually in the midst of the hail, very heavy, such as had not been in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation." 
Exodus9:25 And the hail struck all that was in the field through all the land of Egypt, from man to beast; the hail also struck every plant of the field and shattered every tree of the field." 
Exodus9:26 Only in the land of Goshen, where the sons of Israel were, there was no hail." 
Exodus9:27 Then Pharaoh sent and called for Moses and Aaron and said to them, “I have sinned this time; Yahweh is the righteous one, and I and my people are the wicked ones." 
Exodus9:28 Entreat Yahweh, for God’s thunder and hail are too much; and I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer.”" 
Exodus9:29 And Moses said to him, “As soon as I go out of the city, I will spread out my hands to Yahweh; the thunder will cease, and there will be hail no longer, that you may know that the earth is Yahweh’s." 
Exodus9:30 But as for you and your servants, I know that you do not yet fear Yahweh God.”" 
Exodus9:31 (Now the flax and the barley were struck down, for the barley was in the ear and the flax was in bud." 
Exodus9:32 But the wheat and the spelt were not struck down, for they are late-ripening.)" 
Exodus9:33 And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh and spread out his hands to Yahweh; and the thunder and the hail ceased, and rain no longer poured on the earth." 
Exodus9:34 But Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunder had ceased. So he sinned again and hardened his heart with firmness, he and his servants." 
Exodus9:35 And Pharaoh’s heart was hardened with strength, and he did not let the sons of Israel go, just as Yahweh had spoken by the hand of Moses." 
Exodus10:1 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Come to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants with firmness, that I may set these signs of Mine among them," 
Exodus10:2 and that you may recount in the hearing of your son and of your grandson, how I dealt severely with the Egyptians, and how I put My signs among them, that you may know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Exodus10:3 Then Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, ‘How long will you refuse to humble yourself before Me? Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus10:4 For if you refuse to let My people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring locusts into your territory." 
Exodus10:5 And they shall cover the surface of the land, so that no one will be able to see the land. They will also eat the rest of what has escaped—what remains for you from the hail—and they will eat every tree which sprouts for you out of the field." 
Exodus10:6 Then your houses and the houses of all your servants and the houses of all the Egyptians shall be filled, something which neither your fathers nor your grandfathers have seen, from the day that they came upon the earth until this day.’” And he turned and went out from Pharaoh." 
Exodus10:7 And Pharaoh’s servants said to him, “How long will this man be a snare to us? Let the men go, that they may serve Yahweh their God. Do you not yet know that Egypt is destroyed?”" 
Exodus10:8 So Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh, and he said to them, “Go, serve Yahweh your God! Who are the ones that are going?”" 
Exodus10:9 And Moses said, “We shall go with our young and our old; with our sons and our daughters, with our flocks and our herds we shall go, for it is a feast of Yahweh for us.”" 
Exodus10:10 Then he said to them, “Thus may Yahweh be with you, if ever I let you and your little ones go! See, for evil is on your faces." 
Exodus10:11 Not so! Go now, the men among you, and serve Yahweh, for that is what you are seeking.” So they were driven out from Pharaoh’s presence." 
Exodus10:12 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up on the land of Egypt and eat every plant of the land, all that the hail has left remaining.”" 
Exodus10:13 So Moses stretched out his staff over the land of Egypt, and Yahweh directed an east wind on the land all that day and all that night; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts." 
Exodus10:14 And the locusts came up over all the land of Egypt and rested on all the territory of Egypt; they were very heavy. There had never been so many locusts, nor would there be so many again." 
Exodus10:15 For they covered the surface of the whole land, so that the land was darkened; and they ate every plant of the land and all the fruit of the trees that the hail had left. Thus nothing green was left on tree or plant of the field through all the land of Egypt." 
Exodus10:16 Then Pharaoh hurriedly called for Moses and Aaron, and he said, “I have sinned against Yahweh your God and against you." 
Exodus10:17 So now, please forgive my sin only this once and entreat Yahweh your God, that He would only cause this death to depart from me.”" 
Exodus10:18 And he went out from Pharaoh and entreated Yahweh. 
Exodus10:19 So Yahweh changed the wind to a very strong west wind which took up the locusts and drove them into the Red Sea; not one locust remained in all the territory of Egypt. 
Exodus10:20 But Yahweh hardened Pharaoh’s heart with strength, and he did not let the sons of Israel go." 
Exodus10:21 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand toward the sky, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even a darkness which may be felt.”" 
Exodus10:22 So Moses stretched out his hand toward the sky, and there was thick darkness in all the land of Egypt for three days." 
Exodus10:23 They did not see one another, nor did anyone rise from his place for three days, but all the sons of Israel had light in their places of habitation." 
Exodus10:24 Then Pharaoh called to Moses and said, “Go, serve Yahweh; only let your flocks and your herds be detained. Even your little ones may go with you.”" 
Exodus10:25 But Moses said, “You must also let us have in our hand sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice them to Yahweh our God." 
Exodus10:26 Therefore, our livestock too shall go with us; not a hoof shall remain behind, for we shall take some of them to serve Yahweh our God. And until we come there, we ourselves do not know with what we shall serve Yahweh.”" 
Exodus10:27 But Yahweh hardened Pharaoh’s heart with strength, and he was not willing to let them go." 
Exodus10:28 Then Pharaoh said to him, “Get away from me! Beware, do not see my face again, for in the day you see my face you shall die!”" 
Exodus10:29 And Moses said, “As you have spoken; I shall never see your face again!”" 
Exodus11:1 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “One more plague I will bring on Pharaoh and on Egypt; after that he will let you go from here. When he lets you go, he will surely drive you out from here completely." 
Exodus11:2 Speak now in the hearing of the people so that each man may ask from his neighbor and each woman from her neighbor for articles of silver and articles of gold.” 
Exodus11:3 (And Yahweh gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses himself was very great in the land of Egypt, both in the sight of Pharaoh’s servants and in the sight of the people.)" 
Exodus11:4 So Moses said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘About midnight I am going out into the midst of Egypt," 
Exodus11:5 and all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn of the Pharaoh who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the servant-girl who is behind the millstones; and all the firstborn of the cattle." 
Exodus11:6 Moreover, there shall be a great cry in all the land of Egypt, such as there has not been before and such as shall never be again." 
Exodus11:7 But for any of the sons of Israel a dog will not even bark, whether against man or beast, that you may know how Yahweh makes a distinction between Egypt and Israel.’" 
Exodus11:8 Then all these your servants will come down to me and bow themselves before me, saying, ‘Go out, you and all the people who follow you,’ and after that I will go out.” And he went out from Pharaoh in hot anger." 
Exodus11:9 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Pharaoh will not listen to you, so that My miraculous wonders will be multiplied in the land of Egypt.”" 
Exodus11:10 Now Moses and Aaron did all these miraculous wonders before Pharaoh; yet Yahweh hardened Pharaoh’s heart with strength, and he did not let the sons of Israel go out of his land." 
Exodus12:1 Now Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt," 
Exodus12:2 “This month shall be the beginning of months for you; it is to be the first month of the year to you. 
Exodus12:3 Speak to all the congregation of Israel, saying, ‘On the tenth of this month they are each one to take a lamb for themselves, according to their fathers’ households, a lamb for each household." 
Exodus12:4 Now if the household is too small for a lamb, then he and his neighbor nearest to his house are to take one according to the number of persons in them; according to what each man should eat, you are to apportion the lamb." 
Exodus12:5 Your lamb shall be a male, without blemish, a year old; you may take it from the sheep or from the goats." 
Exodus12:6 And you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month, then the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall slaughter it at twilight." 
Exodus12:7 Moreover, they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and on the lintel of the houses in which they eat it." 
Exodus12:8 And they shall eat the flesh that night, roasted with fire, and they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs." 
Exodus12:9 Do not eat any of it raw or boiled at all with water, but rather roasted with fire, both its head and its legs along with its entrails." 
Exodus12:10 And you shall not leave any of it over until morning, but whatever is left of it until morning, you shall burn with fire." 
Exodus12:11 Now you shall eat it in this manner: with your loins girded, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and you shall eat it in haste—it is the Passover of Yahweh." 
Exodus12:12 And I will go through the land of Egypt on that night and will strike down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments—I am Yahweh." 
Exodus12:13 And the blood shall be a sign for you on the houses where you are; and I will see the blood, and I will pass over you, and there shall be no plague among you to destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt." 
Exodus12:14 ‘Now this day will be a memorial to you, and you shall celebrate it as a feast to Yahweh; throughout your generations you are to celebrate it as a perpetual statute." 
Exodus12:15 Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, but on the first day you shall remove leaven from your houses; for whoever eats anything leavened from the first day until the seventh day, that person shall be cut off from Israel." 
Exodus12:16 Now on the first day there shall be a holy convocation, and on the seventh day there shall be a holy convocation for you; no work at all shall be done on them, except what must be eaten by every person, that alone may be done by you." 
Exodus12:17 You shall also keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread, for on this very day I brought your hosts out of the land of Egypt; therefore you shall keep this day throughout your generations as a perpetual statute." 
Exodus12:18 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread until the twenty-first day of the month at evening." 
Exodus12:19 Seven days there shall be no leaven found in your houses; for whoever eats what is leavened, that person shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he is a sojourner or a native of the land." 
Exodus12:20 You shall not eat anything leavened; in all your places of habitation you shall eat unleavened bread.’” 
Exodus12:21 Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel and said to them, “Bring out and take for yourselves lambs according to your families and slaughter the Passover lamb." 
Exodus12:22 And you shall take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood which is in the basin, and touch some of the blood that is in the basin to the lintel and the two doorposts; and none of you shall go outside the doorway of his house until morning." 
Exodus12:23 And Yahweh will pass through to smite the Egyptians; and He will see the blood on the lintel and on the two doorposts, and Yahweh will pass over the doorway and will not allow the destroyer to come into your houses to smite you." 
Exodus12:24 And you shall keep this event as a statute for you and your children forever. 
Exodus12:25 And it will be, when you enter the land which Yahweh will give you, as He has promised, you shall keep this new slavery." 
Exodus12:26 And it will be when your children say to you, ‘What is the meaning of this new slavery to you?’" 
Exodus12:27 that you shall say, ‘It is a Passover sacrifice to Yahweh who passed over the houses of the sons of Israel in Egypt when He smote the Egyptians, but delivered our homes.’” And the people bowed low and worshiped." 
Exodus12:28 Then the sons of Israel went and did so; just as Yahweh had commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did." 
Exodus12:29 Now it happened at midnight that Yahweh struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon, and all the firstborn of cattle." 
Exodus12:30 Then Pharaoh arose in the night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians, and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was no home where there was not someone dead." 
Exodus12:31 Then he called for Moses and Aaron at night and said, “Rise up, get out from among my people, both you and the sons of Israel; and go, serve Yahweh, as you have spoken." 
Exodus12:32 Take both your flocks and your herds, as you have spoken, and go, and bless me also.”" 
Exodus12:33 And the Egyptians strongly pressed the people to send them out of the land in haste, for they said, “We will all be dead.”" 
Exodus12:34 So the people took up their dough before it was leavened, with their kneading bowls bound up in the clothes on their shoulders." 
Exodus12:35 Now the sons of Israel had done according to the word of Moses—they had asked from the Egyptians for articles of silver and articles of gold, and clothing;" 
Exodus12:36 and Yahweh had given the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they let them have what they asked. Thus they plundered the Egyptians." 
Exodus12:37 And the sons of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand men on foot, aside from the little ones." 
Exodus12:38 A foreign multitude also went up with them, along with flocks and herds, a very large number of livestock." 
Exodus12:39 And they baked the dough which they had brought out of Egypt into cakes of unleavened bread. For it had not become leavened, since they were driven out of Egypt and could not delay, nor had they prepared any provisions for themselves." 
Exodus12:40 Now the time that the sons of Israel lived in Egypt was 430 years. 
Exodus12:41 And it happened at the end of 430 years, to the very day, that all the hosts of Yahweh went out from the land of Egypt." 
Exodus12:42 It is a night to be kept for Yahweh for having brought them out from the land of Egypt; this night is for Yahweh, to be kept by all the sons of Israel throughout their generations." 
Exodus12:43 And Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron, “This is the statute of the Passover: no foreigner shall eat of it;" 
Exodus12:44 but every man’s slave purchased with money, after you have circumcised him, then he may eat of it." 
Exodus12:45 A foreign resident or a hired person shall not eat of it. 
Exodus12:46 It shall be eaten in a single house; you shall not bring forth any of the flesh outside of the house, and you shall not break any bone of it." 
Exodus12:47 All the congregation of Israel shall celebrate this. 
Exodus12:48 But if a sojourner sojourns with you and celebrates the Passover to Yahweh, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come near to celebrate it; and he shall be like a native of the land. But no uncircumcised person may eat of it." 
Exodus12:49 The same law shall apply to the native as to the sojourner who sojourns among you.” 
Exodus12:50 So all the sons of Israel did; as Yahweh had commanded Moses and Aaron, thus they did." 
Exodus12:51 And on that same day Yahweh brought the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their hosts. 
Exodus13:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus13:2 “Sanctify to Me every firstborn, the first offspring of every womb among the sons of Israel, both of man and beast; it belongs to Me.”" 
Exodus13:3 And Moses said to the people, “Remember this day in which you went out from Egypt, from the house of slavery; for by a strong hand Yahweh brought you out from this place. And nothing leavened shall be eaten." 
Exodus13:4 This day, in the month of Abib, you are going out." 
Exodus13:5 And it shall be when Yahweh brings you to the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, which He swore to your fathers to give you, a land flowing with milk and honey, that you shall do this service in this month." 
Exodus13:6 For seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a feast to Yahweh." 
Exodus13:7 Unleavened bread shall be eaten throughout the seven days; and nothing leavened shall be seen among you, nor shall any leaven be seen among you in all your borders." 
Exodus13:8 And you shall tell your son on that day, saying, ‘It is because of what Yahweh did for me when I came out of Egypt.’" 
Exodus13:9 And it will be as a sign to you on your hand and as a memorial between your eyes, that the law of Yahweh may be in your mouth; for with a strong hand Yahweh brought you out of Egypt." 
Exodus13:10 Therefore, you shall keep this statute at its appointed time from year to year." 
Exodus13:11 “And it will be when Yahweh brings you to the land of the Canaanite, as He swore to you and to your fathers, and gives it to you," 
Exodus13:12 and you shall devote to Yahweh the first offspring of every womb and the first offspring of every beast that you own; the males belong to Yahweh. 
Exodus13:13 But every first offspring of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb, but if you do not redeem it, then you shall break its neck; and every firstborn of man among your sons you shall redeem." 
Exodus13:14 And it will be when your son asks you in time to come, saying, ‘What is this?’ then you shall say to him, ‘With a strong hand Yahweh brought us out of Egypt, from the house of slavery." 
Exodus13:15 And it happened, when Pharaoh hardened his heart with stiffness about letting us go, that Yahweh killed every firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man and the firstborn of beast. Therefore, I sacrifice to Yahweh the males, the first offspring of every womb, but every firstborn of my sons I redeem.’" 
Exodus13:16 So it will be as a sign on your hand and as phylacteries between your eyes, for with a strong hand Yahweh brought us out of Egypt.”" 
Exodus13:17 Now it happened that when Pharaoh had let the people go, God did not guide them by the way of the land of the Philistines, even though it was near; for God said, “Lest the people change their minds when they see war, and return to Egypt.”" 
Exodus13:18 Hence God turned the people to the way of the wilderness to the Red Sea; and the sons of Israel went up in battle array from the land of Egypt. 
Exodus13:19 And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had made the sons of Israel solemnly swear, saying, “God will surely take care of you, and you shall bring up my bones from here with you.”" 
Exodus13:20 Then they set out from Succoth and camped in Etham on the edge of the wilderness. 
Exodus13:21 And Yahweh was going before them in a pillar of cloud by day to guide them on the way, and in a pillar of fire by night to give them light, that they might go by day and by night." 
Exodus13:22 He did not take away the pillar of cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night, from before the people." 
Exodus14:1 Now Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus14:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel so that they turn back and camp before Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea; you shall camp in front of Baal-zephon, opposite it, by the sea." 
Exodus14:3 And Pharaoh will say of the sons of Israel, ‘They are wandering in confusion in the land; the wilderness has shut them in.’" 
Exodus14:4 Thus I will harden Pharaoh’s heart with strength, and he will pursue them; and I will be glorified through Pharaoh and all his army, so that the Egyptians will know that I am Yahweh.” And they did so." 
Exodus14:5 Then the king of Egypt was told that the people had fled, and the heart of Pharaoh and his servants was changed toward the people, and they said, “What is this we have done, that we have let Israel go from serving us?”" 
Exodus14:6 So he made his chariot ready and took his people with him; 
Exodus14:7 and he took six hundred choice chariots and all the other chariots of Egypt with officers over all of them. 
Exodus14:8 And Yahweh hardened the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, with strength, and he pursued the sons of Israel as the sons of Israel were going out with an exalted hand." 
Exodus14:9 Then the Egyptians pursued them with all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, his horsemen and his army, and they overtook them camping by the sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, in front of Baal-zephon." 
Exodus14:10 Now Pharaoh drew near, and the sons of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians were marching after them, and they became very afraid; so the sons of Israel cried out to Yahweh." 
Exodus14:11 Then they said to Moses, “Is it because there were no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? What is this you have done against us in bringing us out of Egypt?" 
Exodus14:12 Is this not the word that we spoke to you in Egypt, saying, ‘Leave us alone that we may serve the Egyptians’? For it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than for us to die in the wilderness.”" 
Exodus14:13 But Moses said to the people, “Do not fear! Stand by and see the salvation of Yahweh which He will accomplish for you today; for the Egyptians whom you have seen today, you will never see them again forever." 
Exodus14:14 Yahweh will fight for you, and you will keep silent.”" 
Exodus14:15 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Why are you crying out to Me? Speak to the sons of Israel so that they go forward." 
Exodus14:16 As for you, raise up your staff and stretch out your hand over the sea and split it, and the sons of Israel shall go through the midst of the sea on dry land." 
Exodus14:17 As for Me, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians with strength so that they will go in after them; and I will be glorified through Pharaoh and all his army, through his chariots and his horsemen." 
Exodus14:18 Then the Egyptians will know that I am Yahweh, when I am glorified through Pharaoh, through his chariots and his horsemen.”" 
Exodus14:19 Then the angel of God, who had been going before the camp of Israel, moved and went behind them; and the pillar of cloud moved from before them and stood behind them." 
Exodus14:20 So it came between the camp of Egypt and the camp of Israel; and there was the cloud along with the darkness, yet it gave light at night. Thus the one did not come near the other all night." 
Exodus14:21 Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and Yahweh swept the sea back by a strong east wind all night and made the sea into dry ground, so the waters were split." 
Exodus14:22 So the sons of Israel went through the midst of the sea on the dry land, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left." 
Exodus14:23 Then the Egyptians pursued them, and all Pharaoh’s horses, his chariots and his horsemen went in after them into the midst of the sea." 
Exodus14:24 Then at the morning watch, Yahweh looked down on the camp of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and cloud and brought the camp of the Egyptians into confusion." 
Exodus14:25 And He caused their chariot wheels to swerve, and He made them drive with difficulty; so the Egyptians said, “Let us flee from Israel, for Yahweh is fighting for them against the Egyptians.”" 
Exodus14:26 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand over the sea so that the waters may come back over the Egyptians, over their chariots and their horsemen.”" 
Exodus14:27 So Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its normal state at daybreak while the Egyptians were fleeing right into it; then Yahweh overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea." 
Exodus14:28 And the waters returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen, even Pharaoh’s entire army that had gone into the sea after them; not even one of them remained." 
Exodus14:29 But the sons of Israel walked on dry land through the midst of the sea, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left." 
Exodus14:30 Thus Yahweh saved Israel that day from the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore." 
Exodus14:31 Then Israel saw the great hand which Yahweh had used against the Egyptians; and the people feared Yahweh, and they believed in Yahweh and in His servant Moses." 
Exodus15:1 Then Moses and the sons of Israel sang this song to Yahweh and said, “I will sing to Yahweh, for He is highly exalted; The horse and its rider He has hurled into the sea." 
Exodus15:2 Yah is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation; This is my God, and I will praise Him; My father’s God, and I will extol Him." 
Exodus15:3 Yahweh is a warrior; Yahweh is His name. 
Exodus15:4 Pharaoh’s chariots and his army He has cast into the sea; And the choicest of his officers are sunk in the Red Sea. 
Exodus15:5 The deeps cover them; They went down into the depths like a stone. 
Exodus15:6 Your right hand, O Yahweh, is majestic in power, Your right hand, O Yahweh, shatters the enemy." 
Exodus15:7 And in the greatness of Your exaltation You pull down those who rise up against You; You send forth Your burning anger, and it devours them as chaff." 
Exodus15:8 And at the blast of Your nostrils the waters were piled up, The flowing waters stood up like a heap; The deeps were congealed in the heart of the sea." 
Exodus15:9 The enemy said, ‘I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; My desire shall be fulfilled against them; I will draw out my sword, my hand will dispossess them.’" 
Exodus15:10 You blew with Your wind, the sea covered them; They sank like lead in the mighty waters." 
Exodus15:11 Who is like You among the gods, O Yahweh? Who is like You, majestic in holiness, Fearsome in praises, working wonders?" 
Exodus15:12 You stretched out Your right hand, The earth swallowed them." 
Exodus15:13 In Your lovingkindness You have guided the people whom You have redeemed; In Your strength You have led them to Your holy habitation. 
Exodus15:14 The peoples have heard, they tremble; Anguish has seized the inhabitants of Philistia." 
Exodus15:15 Then the chiefs of Edom were dismayed; The leaders of Moab, trembling seizes them; All the inhabitants of Canaan have melted away." 
Exodus15:16 Terror and dread fall upon them; By the greatness of Your arm they are still as stone; Until Your people pass over, O Yahweh, Until the people pass over whom You have purchased." 
Exodus15:17 You will bring them and plant them in the mountain of Your inheritance, The place, O Yahweh, which You have made for You to inhabit, The sanctuary, O Lord, which Your hands have established." 
Exodus15:18 Yahweh shall reign forever and ever.” 
Exodus15:19 For the horses of Pharaoh with his chariots and his horsemen went into the sea, and Yahweh brought back the waters of the sea on them, but the sons of Israel walked on dry land through the midst of the sea." 
Exodus15:20 And Miriam the prophetess, Aaron’s sister, took the tambourine in her hand, and all the women went out after her with tambourines and with dancing." 
Exodus15:21 And Miriam answered them, “Sing to Yahweh, for He is highly exalted; The horse and his rider He has hurled into the sea.”" 
Exodus15:22 Then Moses had Israel set out from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness and found no water." 
Exodus15:23 And they came to Marah, but they could not drink the waters of Marah, for they were bitter; therefore it was named Marah." 
Exodus15:24 So the people grumbled at Moses, saying, “What shall we drink?”" 
Exodus15:25 Then he cried out to Yahweh, and Yahweh showed him a tree; and he threw it into the waters, and the waters became sweet. There He set for them a statute and a judgment, and there He tested them." 
Exodus15:26 And He said, “If you will earnestly listen to the voice of Yahweh your God, and do what is right in His sight, and give ear to His commandments, and keep all His statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you which I have put on the Egyptians; for I, Yahweh, am your healer.”" 
Exodus15:27 Then they came to Elim where there were twelve springs of water and seventy date palms, and they camped there beside the waters." 
Exodus16:1 Then they set out from Elim, and all the congregation of the sons of Israel came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departure from the land of Egypt." 
Exodus16:2 And the whole congregation of the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. 
Exodus16:3 And the sons of Israel said to them, “Would that we had died by the hand of Yahweh in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the pots of meat, when we ate bread to the full; for you have brought us out into this wilderness to put this whole assembly to death with hunger.”" 
Exodus16:4 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you; and the people shall go out and gather a day’s portion every day, that I may test them, whether or not they will walk in My law." 
Exodus16:5 Now it will be on the sixth day, they shall prepare what they bring in, and it will be twice as much as they gather daily.”" 
Exodus16:6 So Moses and Aaron said to all the sons of Israel, “At evening you will know that Yahweh has brought you out of the land of Egypt;" 
Exodus16:7 and in the morning you will see the glory of Yahweh, for He hears your grumblings against Yahweh; and what are we, that you grumble against us?”" 
Exodus16:8 And Moses said, “This will happen when Yahweh gives you meat to eat in the evening and bread to the full in the morning; for Yahweh hears your grumblings which you grumble against Him. And what are we? Your grumblings are not against us but against Yahweh.”" 
Exodus16:9 Then Moses said to Aaron, “Say to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, ‘Come near before Yahweh, for He has heard your grumblings.’”" 
Exodus16:10 Now it happened as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the sons of Israel, that they turned toward the wilderness, and behold, the glory of Yahweh appeared in the cloud." 
Exodus16:11 And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus16:12 “I have heard the grumblings of the sons of Israel; speak to them, saying, ‘At twilight you shall eat meat, and in the morning you shall be filled with bread, so that you shall know that I am Yahweh your God.’”" 
Exodus16:13 So it happened at evening that the quails came up and covered the camp, and in the morning there was a layer of dew around the camp." 
Exodus16:14 Then the layer of dew evaporated, and behold, on the surface of the wilderness there was a fine flake-like thing, fine as the frost on the ground." 
Exodus16:15 And the sons of Israel saw it and said to one another, “What is it?” For they did not know what it was. And Moses said to them, “It is the bread which Yahweh has given you to eat." 
Exodus16:16 This is what Yahweh has commanded, ‘Gather of it every man as much as he should eat; you shall take an omer apiece according to the number of persons each of you has in his tent.’”" 
Exodus16:17 And the sons of Israel did so; some gathered much and some little. 
Exodus16:18 And they measured it with an omer, and he who had gathered much had no excess, and he who had gathered little had no lack; every man gathered as much as he should eat." 
Exodus16:19 And Moses said to them, “Let no man leave any of it until morning.”" 
Exodus16:20 But they did not listen to Moses, and some left part of it until morning, and it bred worms and became foul; and Moses was angry with them." 
Exodus16:21 So they gathered it morning by morning, every man as much as he should eat; but the sun would grow hot, and it would melt." 
Exodus16:22 Now it happened that on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for each one. Then all the leaders of the congregation came and told Moses." 
Exodus16:23 And he said to them, “This is what Yahweh has spoken: Tomorrow is a sabbath observance, a holy sabbath to Yahweh. Bake what you will bake and boil what you will boil, and all that is in excess put aside to be kept until morning.”" 
Exodus16:24 So they put it aside until morning, as Moses had commanded, and it did not become foul nor was there any worm in it." 
Exodus16:25 And Moses said, “Eat it today, for today is a sabbath to Yahweh; today you will not find it in the field." 
Exodus16:26 Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day, the sabbath, there will be none.”" 
Exodus16:27 Now it happened on the seventh day, that some of the people went out to gather, but they found none." 
Exodus16:28 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “How long do you refuse to keep My commandments and My laws?" 
Exodus16:29 See, Yahweh has given you the sabbath; therefore He gives you bread for two days on the sixth day. Remain every man in his place; let no man go out of his place on the seventh day.”" 
Exodus16:30 So the people rested on the seventh day. 
Exodus16:31 And the house of Israel named it manna, and it was like coriander seed, white, and its taste was like wafers with honey." 
Exodus16:32 Then Moses said, “This is what Yahweh has commanded, ‘Let an omerful of it be kept throughout your generations, that they may see the bread that I fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you out of the land of Egypt.’”" 
Exodus16:33 And Moses said to Aaron, “Take a jar and put an omerful of manna in it, and place it before Yahweh to be kept throughout your generations.”" 
Exodus16:34 As Yahweh commanded Moses, so Aaron placed it before the Testimony to be kept." 
Exodus16:35 And the sons of Israel ate the manna forty years, until they came to an inhabited land; they ate the manna until they came to the border of the land of Canaan." 
Exodus16:36 (Now an omer is a tenth of an ephah.) 
Exodus17:1 Then all the congregation of the sons of Israel journeyed by stages from the wilderness of Sin, according to the command of Yahweh, and they camped at Rephidim, and there was no water for the people to drink." 
Exodus17:2 Therefore the people contended with Moses and said, “Give us water that we may drink.” And Moses said to them, “Why do you contend with me? Why do you test Yahweh?”" 
Exodus17:3 But the people thirsted there for water; and they grumbled against Moses and said, “Why, now, have you brought us up from Egypt, to put us and our children and our livestock to death with thirst?”" 
Exodus17:4 So Moses cried out to Yahweh, saying, “What shall I do to this people? A little more and they will stone me.”" 
Exodus17:5 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Pass before the people and take with you some of the elders of Israel; and take in your hand your staff with which you struck the Nile, and go." 
Exodus17:6 Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock at Horeb; and you shall strike the rock, and water will come out of it, that the people may drink.” And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel." 
Exodus17:7 So he named the place Massah and Meribah because of the contending of the sons of Israel, and because they tested Yahweh, saying, “Is Yahweh among us or not?”" 
Exodus17:8 Then Amalek came and fought against Israel at Rephidim. 
Exodus17:9 So Moses said to Joshua, “Choose men for us and go out, fight against Amalek. Tomorrow I will take my stand on the top of the hill with the staff of God in my hand.”" 
Exodus17:9 So Moses said to Joshua, “Choose men for us and go out, fight against Amalek. Tomorrow I will take my stand on the top of the hill with the staff of God in my hand.”" 
Exodus17:10 And Joshua did as Moses told him, to fight against Amalek; and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill." 
Exodus17:10 And Joshua did as Moses told him, to fight against Amalek; and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill." 
Exodus17:11 So it happened when Moses raised his hand up, that Israel prevailed, and when he let his hand down, Amalek prevailed." 
Exodus17:12 But Moses’ hands were heavy. Then they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it; and Aaron and Hur supported his hands, one on one side and one on the other. Thus his hands were steady until the sun set." 
Exodus17:13 So Joshua overwhelmed Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. 
Exodus17:13 So Joshua overwhelmed Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. 
Exodus17:14 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Write this in a book as a memorial and recite it in Joshua’s hearing, that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven.”" 
Exodus17:14 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Write this in a book as a memorial and recite it in Joshua’s hearing, that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven.”" 
Exodus17:15 And Moses built an altar and named it Yahweh is My Banner; 
Exodus17:16 and he said, “Because He has sworn with a hand upon the throne of Yah, Yahweh will have war against Amalek from generation to generation.”" 
Exodus18:1 Now Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses’ father-in-law, heard of all that God had done for Moses and for Israel His people, how Yahweh had brought Israel out of Egypt." 
Exodus18:2 And Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, took Moses’ wife Zipporah, after he had sent her away," 
Exodus18:3 and her two sons, of whom one was named Gershom, for Moses said, “I have been a sojourner in a foreign land.”" 
Exodus18:4 And the other was named Eliezer, for he said, “The God of my father was my help and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh.”" 
Exodus18:5 Then Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife to Moses in the wilderness where he was camped, at the mount of God." 
Exodus18:6 And he sent word to Moses, “I, your father-in-law Jethro, am coming to you with your wife and her two sons with her.”" 
Exodus18:7 Then Moses went out to meet his father-in-law, and he bowed down and kissed him; and they asked each other of their welfare and went into the tent." 
Exodus18:8 And Moses recounted to his father-in-law all that Yahweh had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel’s sake, all the hardship that had befallen them on the journey, and how Yahweh had delivered them." 
Exodus18:9 And Jethro rejoiced over all the goodness which Yahweh had done to Israel, that He had delivered them from the hand of the Egyptians." 
Exodus18:10 So Jethro said, “Blessed be Yahweh who delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of Pharaoh, and who delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians." 
Exodus18:11 Now I know that Yahweh is greater than all the gods; for in this matter they acted presumptuously against the people.” 
Exodus18:12 Then Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God, and Aaron came with all the elders of Israel to eat a meal with Moses’ father-in-law before God." 
Exodus18:13 Now it happened the next day that Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood about Moses from the morning until the evening." 
Exodus18:14 And Moses’ father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, so he said, “What is this thing that you are doing for the people? Why do you alone sit as judge and all the people stand about you from morning until evening?”" 
Exodus18:15 And Moses said to his father-in-law, “Because the people come to me to inquire of God." 
Exodus18:16 When they have a matter, it comes to me, and I judge between a man and his neighbor and make known the statutes of God and His laws.”" 
Exodus18:17 And Moses’ father-in-law said to him, “The thing that you are doing is not good." 
Exodus18:18 You will surely wear out, both yourself and these people who are with you, for the task is too heavy for you; you cannot do it alone." 
Exodus18:19 Now listen to my voice: I will give you counsel, and God be with you. You be the people’s representative before God, and you bring the matters to God;" 
Exodus18:20 then warn them about the statutes and the laws, and make known to them the way in which they shall go and the work they shall do." 
Exodus18:21 But you shall select excellent men out of all the people, those who fear God, men of truth, those who hate greedy gain; and you shall place these men over them as leaders of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens." 
Exodus18:22 And they will judge the people at all times. And it will be that every major matter they will bring to you, but every minor matter they themselves will judge. So it will be easier for you, and they will bear the burden with you." 
Exodus18:23 If you do this thing and God so commands you, then you will be able to endure, and all these people also will go to their place in peace.”" 
Exodus18:24 So Moses listened to the voice of his father-in-law and did all that he had said. 
Exodus18:25 And Moses chose excellent men out of all Israel and made them heads over the people, leaders of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens." 
Exodus18:26 And they judged the people at all times; the difficult matter they would bring to Moses, but every minor matter they themselves would judge." 
Exodus18:27 Then Moses let his father-in-law depart, and he went his way into his own land." 
Exodus19:1 In the third month after the sons of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on this day they came into the wilderness of Sinai." 
Exodus19:2 Then they set out from Rephidim and came to the wilderness of Sinai and camped in the wilderness; and there Israel camped in front of the mountain. 
Exodus19:3 Now Moses went up to God, and Yahweh called to him from the mountain, saying, “Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob and tell the sons of Israel:" 
Exodus19:4 ‘You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I lifted you up on eagles’ wings and brought you to Myself." 
Exodus19:5 So now then, if you will indeed listen to My voice and keep My covenant, then you shall be My treasured possession among all the peoples, for all the earth is Mine;" 
Exodus19:6 and you shall be to Me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation.’ These are the words that you shall speak to the sons of Israel.” 
Exodus19:7 So Moses came and called the elders of the people and set before them all these words which Yahweh had commanded him. 
Exodus19:8 And all the people answered together and said, “All that Yahweh has spoken we will do!” And Moses brought back the words of the people to Yahweh." 
Exodus19:9 Yahweh said to Moses, “Behold, I will come to you in a thick cloud, so that the people may hear when I speak with you and may also believe in you forever.” Then Moses told the words of the people to Yahweh." 
Exodus19:10 Yahweh also said to Moses, “Go to the people and set them apart as holy today and tomorrow, and let them wash their garments;" 
Exodus19:11 and let them be ready for the third day, for on the third day Yahweh will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people." 
Exodus19:12 And you shall set bounds for the people all around, saying, ‘Beware that you do not go up on the mountain or touch the border of it; whoever touches the mountain shall surely be put to death." 
Exodus19:13 No hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or surely shot through; whether beast or man, he shall not live.’ When the ram’s horn sounds a long blast, they shall come up to the mountain.”" 
Exodus19:14 So Moses went down from the mountain to the people and set the people apart as holy, and they washed their garments." 
Exodus19:15 And he said to the people, “Be ready for the third day; do not go near a woman.”" 
Exodus19:16 So it happened on the third day, when it was morning, that there were thunder and lightning flashes and a thick cloud upon the mountain and a very loud trumpet sound, so that all the people who were in the camp trembled." 
Exodus19:17 And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain." 
Exodus19:18 Now Mount Sinai was all in smoke because Yahweh descended upon it in fire; and its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain trembled violently." 
Exodus19:19 And the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder; then Moses spoke and God answered him with thunder. 
Exodus19:20 And Yahweh came down on Mount Sinai, to the top of the mountain; and Yahweh called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up." 
Exodus19:21 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, “Go down, warn the people, lest they break through to Yahweh to see, and many of them perish." 
Exodus19:22 Also let the priests who come near to Yahweh set themselves apart as holy, lest Yahweh break out against them.”" 
Exodus19:23 And Moses said to Yahweh, “The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai, for You warned us, saying, ‘Set bounds about the mountain, and set it apart as holy.’”" 
Exodus19:24 Then Yahweh said to him, “Go down and come up again, you and Aaron with you; but do not let the priests and the people break through to come up to Yahweh, lest He break out against them.”" 
Exodus19:25 So Moses went down to the people and told them. 
Exodus20:1 Then God spoke all these words, saying," 
Exodus20:2 “I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery." 
Exodus20:3 “You shall have no other gods before Me. 
Exodus20:4 “You shall not make for yourself an idol, or any likeness of what is in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the water under the earth." 
Exodus20:5 You shall not worship them or serve them; for I, Yahweh your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, on the third and the fourth generations of those who hate Me," 
Exodus20:6 but showing lovingkindness to thousands, to those who love Me and keep My commandments." 
Exodus20:7 “You shall not take the name of Yahweh your God in vain, for Yahweh will not leave him unpunished who takes His name in vain." 
Exodus20:8 “Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy." 
Exodus20:9 Six days you shall labor and do all your work," 
Exodus20:10 but the seventh day is a sabbath of Yahweh your God; in it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter, your male or your female slave or your cattle or your sojourner who is within your gates." 
Exodus20:11 For in six days Yahweh made the heavens and the earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day; therefore Yahweh blessed the sabbath day and made it holy." 
Exodus20:12 “Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be prolonged in the land which Yahweh your God gives you." 
Exodus20:13 “You shall not murder. 
Exodus20:14 “You shall not commit adultery. 
Exodus20:15 “You shall not steal. 
Exodus20:16 “You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. 
Exodus20:17 “You shall not covet your neighbor’s house; you shall not covet your neighbor’s wife or his male slave or his female slave or his ox or his donkey or anything that belongs to your neighbor.” 
Exodus20:18 And all the people perceived the thunder and the lightning flashes and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking; and the people perceived it, and they shook and stood at a distance." 
Exodus20:19 Then they said to Moses, “Speak to us yourself, and we will listen; but let not God speak to us, lest we die.”" 
Exodus20:20 And Moses said to the people, “Do not be afraid; for God has come in order to test you, and in order that the fear of Him may be with you, so that you may not sin.”" 
Exodus20:21 So the people stood at a distance, but Moses came near the dense gloom where God was." 
Exodus20:22 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Thus you shall say to the sons of Israel, ‘You yourselves have seen that I have spoken to you from heaven." 
Exodus20:23 You shall not make other gods besides Me; gods of silver or gods of gold, you shall not make for yourselves." 
Exodus20:24 You shall make an altar of earth for Me, and you shall sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen; in every place where I cause My name to be remembered, I will come to you and bless you." 
Exodus20:25 And if you make an altar of stone for Me, you shall not build it of cut stones, for if you wield your tool on it, you will profane it." 
Exodus20:26 And you shall not go up by steps to My altar, so that your nakedness will not be exposed on it.’" 
Exodus21:1 “Now these are the judgments which you are to set before them: 
Exodus21:2 “If you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve for six years; but on the seventh he shall go out as a free man without payment." 
Exodus21:3 If he comes alone, he shall go out alone; if he is the husband of a wife, then his wife shall go out with him." 
Exodus21:4 If his master gives him a wife, and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall belong to her master, and he shall go out alone." 
Exodus21:5 But if the slave plainly says, ‘I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out as a free man,’" 
Exodus21:6 then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door or the doorpost. Then his master shall pierce his ear with an awl; and he shall serve him permanently." 
Exodus21:7 “And if a man sells his daughter as a female slave, she is not to go free as the male slaves do." 
Exodus21:8 If she is displeasing in the eyes of her master who designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He does not have authority to sell her to a foreign people because of his treachery to her." 
Exodus21:9 And if he designates her for his son, he shall do to her according to the custom of daughters." 
Exodus21:10 If he takes for himself another woman, he may not reduce her food, her clothing, or her conjugal rights." 
Exodus21:11 And if he will not do these three things for her, then she shall go out for nothing, without payment of money." 
Exodus21:12 “He who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death. 
Exodus21:13 But if he did not lie in wait for him, but God let him fall into his hand, then I will appoint you a place to which he may flee." 
Exodus21:14 If, however, a man acts presumptuously toward his neighbor, so as to kill him by deceit, you shall take him even from My altar, that he may die." 
Exodus21:15 “And he who strikes his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. 
Exodus21:16 “He who kidnaps a man, whether he sells him or he is found in his hand, shall surely be put to death." 
Exodus21:17 “And he who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. 
Exodus21:18 “And if men contend with each other and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist, and he does not die but remains in bed," 
Exodus21:19 if he gets up and walks around outside on his staff, then he who struck him shall go unpunished; he shall only pay for his loss of time, and he shall take care of him until he is completely healed." 
Exodus21:20 “And if a man strikes his male or female slave with a rod and he dies at his hand, he shall surely be punished." 
Exodus21:21 But if for a day or two he is able to stand, no punishment shall be taken; for he is his property." 
Exodus21:22 “And if men struggle with each other and strike a woman with child so that she gives birth prematurely, yet there is no injury, he shall surely be fined as the woman’s husband will set for him, and he shall pay as the judges decide." 
Exodus21:23 But if there is any further injury, then you shall pay life for life," 
Exodus21:24 eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot," 
Exodus21:25 burn for burn, bruise for bruise, wound for wound." 
Exodus21:26 “And if a man strikes the eye of his male or female slave and ruins it, he shall let him go free on account of his eye." 
Exodus21:27 And if he knocks out a tooth of his male or female slave, he shall let him go free on account of his tooth." 
Exodus21:28 “And if an ox gores a man or a woman to death, the ox shall surely be stoned and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall go unpunished." 
Exodus21:29 If, however, an ox was previously in the habit of goring and its owner has been warned, yet he does not confine it and it puts a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be stoned and its owner also shall be put to death." 
Exodus21:30 If a ransom is demanded of him, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is demanded of him." 
Exodus21:31 Whether it gores a son or a daughter, it shall be done to him according to the same judgment." 
Exodus21:32 If the ox gores a male or female slave, the owner shall give his or her master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned." 
Exodus21:33 “And if a man opens a pit, or if a man digs a pit and does not cover it over, and an ox or a donkey falls into it," 
Exodus21:34 the owner of the pit shall make restitution; he shall give money to its owner, and the dead animal shall become his." 
Exodus21:35 “And if one man’s ox hurts another’s so that it dies, then they shall sell the live ox and divide its price equally; and also they shall divide the dead ox." 
Exodus21:36 Or if it is known that the ox was previously in the habit of goring, yet its owner has not confined it, he shall surely pay ox for ox, and the dead animal shall become his." 
Exodus22:1 “If a man steals an ox or a sheep and slaughters it or sells it, he shall pay five oxen for the ox and four sheep for the sheep." 
Exodus22:2 “If the thief is caught while breaking in and is struck so that he dies, there will be no bloodguiltiness on his account." 
Exodus22:3 But if the sun has risen on him, there will be bloodguiltiness on his account. He shall surely make restitution; if he owns nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft." 
Exodus22:4 If what he stole is actually found alive in his hand, whether an ox or a donkey or a sheep, he shall pay double." 
Exodus22:5 “If a man lets a field or vineyard be grazed bare and lets his animal loose so that it grazes in another man’s field, he shall make restitution from the best of his own field and the best of his own vineyard." 
Exodus22:6 “If a fire breaks out and spreads to thorn bushes, so that stacked grain or the standing grain or the field itself is consumed, he who started the fire shall surely make restitution." 
Exodus22:7 “If a man gives his neighbor money or goods to keep for him and it is stolen from the man’s house, if the thief is caught, he shall pay double." 
Exodus22:8 If the thief is not caught, then the owner of the house shall appear before the judges to determine whether he laid his hands on his neighbor’s property." 
Exodus22:9 For every breach of trust, whether it is for ox, for donkey, for sheep, for clothing, or for any lost thing about which one says, ‘This is it,’ the case of both parties shall come before the judges; he whom the judges condemn shall pay double to his neighbor." 
Exodus22:10 “If a man gives his neighbor a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any animal to keep for him, and it dies or is injured or is driven away while no one is looking," 
Exodus22:11 then an oath before Yahweh shall be made by the two of them that he has not laid hands on his neighbor’s property; and its owner shall accept it, and he shall not make restitution." 
Exodus22:12 But if it is actually stolen from him, he shall make restitution to its owner." 
Exodus22:13 Now if it is all torn to pieces, let him bring it as evidence; he shall not make restitution for what has been torn to pieces." 
Exodus22:14 “If a man borrows anything from his neighbor, and it is injured or dies while its owner is not with it, he shall make full restitution." 
Exodus22:15 But if its owner is with it, he shall not make restitution; if it is hired, it came for its hire." 
Exodus22:16 “If a man seduces a virgin who is not engaged and lies with her, he must pay a dowry for her to be his wife." 
Exodus22:17 If her father absolutely refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money equal to the dowry for virgins." 
Exodus22:18 “You shall not allow a sorceress to live. 
Exodus22:19 “Whoever lies with an animal shall surely be put to death. 
Exodus22:20 “And he who sacrifices to any god, other than to Yahweh alone, shall be devoted to destruction." 
Exodus22:21 “You shall not mistreat a sojourner or oppress him, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt." 
Exodus22:22 You shall not afflict any widow or orphan. 
Exodus22:23 And if you indeed afflict him, and if he earnestly cries out to Me, I will surely hear his cry;" 
Exodus22:24 and My anger will burn, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall become widows and your children fatherless." 
Exodus22:25 “If you lend money to My people, to the afflicted among you, you are not to act as a creditor to him; you shall not charge him interest." 
Exodus22:26 If you ever take your neighbor’s cloak as a pledge, you shall return it to him before the sun sets," 
Exodus22:27 for that is his only covering; it is his cloak for his body. What else shall he sleep in? And it shall be that when he cries out to Me, I will hear him, for I am gracious." 
Exodus22:28 “You shall not curse God, nor curse a ruler of your people." 
Exodus22:29 “You shall not delay the offering from the fullness of your harvest and the juice of your wine vat. The firstborn of your sons you shall give to Me. 
Exodus22:30 And you shall do the same with your oxen and with your sheep. It shall be with its mother seven days; on the eighth day you shall give it to Me. 
Exodus22:31 “You shall be holy men to Me, therefore you shall not eat any flesh torn to pieces in the field; you shall throw it to the dogs." 
Exodus23:1 “You shall not bear a false report; do not join your hand with a wicked man to be a malicious witness. 
Exodus23:2 You shall not follow the masses in doing evil, nor shall you testify in a case so as to turn aside after the masses in order to cause justice to be turned aside;" 
Exodus23:3 nor shall you be partial to a poor man in his case. 
Exodus23:4 “If you meet your enemy’s ox or his donkey wandering away, you shall surely return it to him." 
Exodus23:5 If you see the donkey of one who hates you lying helpless under its load, you shall refrain from leaving it to him, you shall surely release it with him." 
Exodus23:6 “You shall not cause the justice due to your needy brother to be turned aside in his case. 
Exodus23:7 Keep far from a false charge, and do not kill the innocent or the righteous, for I will not justify the guilty." 
Exodus23:8 “And you shall not take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the clear-sighted and subverts the cause of the just." 
Exodus23:9 “And you shall not oppress a sojourner, since you yourselves know the soul of a sojourner, for you also were sojourners in the land of Egypt." 
Exodus23:10 “Now you shall sow your land for six years and gather in its produce," 
Exodus23:11 but on the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, so that the needy of your people may eat; and whatever they leave the beast of the field may eat. Thus you shall do with your vineyard and your olive grove." 
Exodus23:12 “Six days you are to do your work, but on the seventh day you shall rest so that your ox and your donkey may rest, and the son of your maidservant, as well as your sojourner, may refresh themselves." 
Exodus23:13 Now concerning everything which I have said to you, beware; and do not mention the name of other gods, nor let them be heard from your mouth." 
Exodus23:14 “Three times a year you shall celebrate a feast to Me. 
Exodus23:15 You shall keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread; for seven days you are to eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, at the appointed time in the month Abib, for in it you came out of Egypt. And none shall appear before Me empty-handed." 
Exodus23:16 Also you shall keep the Feast of the Harvest of the first fruits of your labors from what you sow in the field; also the Feast of the Ingathering at the end of the year when you gather in the fruit of your labors from the field. 
Exodus23:17 Three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord Yahweh. 
Exodus23:18 “You shall not offer the blood of My sacrifice with leavened bread; nor is the fat of My feast to remain overnight until morning. 
Exodus23:19 “You shall bring the choice first fruits of your ground into the house of Yahweh your God. “You shall not boil a young goat in the milk of its mother. 
Exodus23:20 “Behold, I am going to send an angel before you to keep you along the way and to bring you into the place which I have prepared." 
Exodus23:21 Keep watch of yourself before him and listen to his voice; do not be rebellious toward him, for he will not pardon your transgression, since My name is in him." 
Exodus23:22 But if you truly listen to his voice and do all that I speak, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries." 
Exodus23:23 For My angel will go before you and bring you in to the land of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites; and I will annihilate them." 
Exodus23:24 You shall not worship their gods, you shall not serve them, and you shall not do according to their deeds; but you shall utterly pull them down and shatter their sacred pillars in pieces." 
Exodus23:25 But you shall serve Yahweh your God, and He will bless your bread and your water; and I will remove sickness from your midst." 
Exodus23:26 There shall be no one miscarrying or barren in your land; I will fulfill the number of your days. 
Exodus23:27 I will send My terror ahead of you and throw into confusion all the people among whom you come, and I will make all your enemies turn their backs to you." 
Exodus23:28 And I will send hornets ahead of you so that they will drive out the Hivites, the Canaanites, and the Hittites before you." 
Exodus23:29 I will not drive them out before you in a single year, lest the land become desolate and the beasts of the field become too numerous for you." 
Exodus23:30 I will drive them out before you little by little, until you become fruitful and take the land as an inheritance." 
Exodus23:31 And I will set your boundary from the Red Sea to the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the River; for I will give the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you will drive them out from before you." 
Exodus23:32 You shall cut no covenant with them or with their gods. 
Exodus23:33 They shall not live in your land, lest they make you sin against Me; for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you.”" 
Exodus24:1 Then He said to Moses, “Come up to Yahweh, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu and seventy of the elders of Israel, and you all shall worship at a distance." 
Exodus24:2 Moses alone, however, shall come near to Yahweh, but they shall not come near, and the people shall not come up with him.”" 
Exodus24:3 Then Moses came and recounted to the people all the words of Yahweh and all the judgments; and all the people answered with one voice and said, “All the words which Yahweh has spoken we will do!”" 
Exodus24:4 And Moses wrote down all the words of Yahweh. Then he arose early in the morning and built an altar at the foot of the mountain with twelve pillars for the twelve tribes of Israel. 
Exodus24:5 And he sent young men of the sons of Israel, and they offered burnt offerings and sacrificed young bulls as peace offerings to Yahweh." 
Exodus24:6 And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and the other half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar." 
Exodus24:7 Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people; and they said, “All that Yahweh has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient!”" 
Exodus24:8 So Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people and said, “Behold the blood of the covenant, which Yahweh has cut with you in accordance with all these words.”" 
Exodus24:9 Then Moses went up with Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel," 
Exodus24:10 and they saw the God of Israel; and under His feet there appeared to be a pavement of sapphire, as clear as the sky itself." 
Exodus24:11 Yet He did not stretch out His hand against the nobles of the sons of Israel; and they beheld God, and they ate and drank." 
Exodus24:12 Now Yahweh said to Moses, “Come up to Me on the mountain and remain there, and I will give you the stone tablets with the law and the commandment which I have written for their instruction.”" 
Exodus24:13 So Moses arose with Joshua his attendant, and Moses went up to the mountain of God." 
Exodus24:13 So Moses arose with Joshua his attendant, and Moses went up to the mountain of God." 
Exodus24:14 But to the elders he said, “Remain here for us until we return to you. And behold, Aaron and Hur are with you; whoever has a legal matter, let him approach them.”" 
Exodus24:15 Then Moses went up to the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain." 
Exodus24:16 And the glory of Yahweh dwelt on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it for six days; and on the seventh day He called to Moses from the midst of the cloud." 
Exodus24:17 And the appearance of the glory of Yahweh was like a consuming fire on the mountain top, in the eyes of the sons of Israel." 
Exodus24:18 Then Moses entered the midst of the cloud as he went up to the mountain; and Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights. 
Exodus25:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus25:2 “Speak with the sons of Israel so that they take a contribution for Me; from every man whose heart is willing you shall take My contribution. 
Exodus25:3 And this is the contribution which you shall take from them: gold, silver, and bronze," 
Exodus25:4 blue, purple, and scarlet material, fine linen, goat hair," 
Exodus25:5 rams’ skins dyed red, porpoise skins, acacia wood," 
Exodus25:6 oil for lighting, spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense," 
Exodus25:7 onyx stones, and setting stones for the ephod and for the breastpiece." 
Exodus25:8 And let them make a sanctuary for Me, that I may dwell among them." 
Exodus25:9 According to all that I am going to show you, as the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all its furniture, just so you shall make it." 
Exodus25:10 “And they shall make an ark of acacia wood two and a half cubits long, and one and a half cubits wide, and one and a half cubits high." 
Exodus25:11 You shall overlay it with pure gold, inside and out you shall overlay it, and you shall make a gold molding around it." 
Exodus25:12 You shall cast four gold rings for it and fasten them on its four feet, and two rings shall be on one side of it and two rings on the other side of it." 
Exodus25:13 You shall make poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold. 
Exodus25:14 You shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, to carry the ark with them." 
Exodus25:15 The poles shall remain in the rings of the ark; they shall not be removed from it. 
Exodus25:16 You shall put into the ark the testimony which I shall give you. 
Exodus25:17 “You shall make a mercy seat of pure gold, two and a half cubits long and one and a half cubits wide." 
Exodus25:18 You shall make two cherubim of gold; make them of hammered work at the two ends of the mercy seat. 
Exodus25:19 Make one cherub at one end and one cherub at the other end; from one piece you shall make the mercy seat with the cherubim at its two ends. 
Exodus25:20 The cherubim shall have their wings spread upward, covering the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces toward one another; the faces of the cherubim are to be toward the mercy seat." 
Exodus25:21 You shall put the mercy seat on top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimony which I will give to you." 
Exodus25:22 There I will meet with you; and from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, I will speak to you about all which I will command you for the sons of Israel." 
Exodus25:23 “You shall make a table of acacia wood, two cubits long and one cubit wide and one and a half cubits high." 
Exodus25:24 You shall overlay it with pure gold and make a gold border around it. 
Exodus25:25 You shall make for it a rim of a handbreadth around it; and you shall make a gold border for the rim around it. 
Exodus25:26 You shall make four gold rings for it and put rings on the four corners which are on its four feet. 
Exodus25:27 The rings shall be close to the rim as holders for the poles to carry the table. 
Exodus25:28 You shall make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, so that with them the table may be carried." 
Exodus25:29 You shall make its dishes and its pans and its jars and its offering bowls with which to pour drink offerings; you shall make them of pure gold. 
Exodus25:30 You shall set the bread of the Presence on the table before Me at all times. 
Exodus25:31 “Then you shall make a lampstand of pure gold. The lampstand, its base, and its shaft are to be made of hammered work; its cups, its bulbs, and its flowers shall be of the same piece." 
Exodus25:32 Six branches shall go out from its sides; three branches of the lampstand from its one side and three branches of the lampstand from its other side. 
Exodus25:33 Three cups shall be shaped like almond blossoms in the one branch, a bulb and a flower, and three cups shaped like almond blossoms in the other branch, a bulb and a flower—so for the six branches going out from the lampstand;" 
Exodus25:34 and in the lampstand four cups shaped like almond blossoms, its bulbs and its flowers." 
Exodus25:35 And a bulb shall be under the first pair of branches coming out of it, and a bulb under the second pair of branches coming out of it, and a bulb under the third pair of branches coming out of it, for the six branches coming out of the lampstand." 
Exodus25:36 Their bulbs and their branches shall be of the same piece; all of it shall be one piece of hammered work of pure gold. 
Exodus25:37 Then you shall make its lamps seven in number; and they shall mount its lamps so as to shed light on the space in front of it. 
Exodus25:38 And its tongs and their trays shall be of pure gold. 
Exodus25:39 It shall be made from a talent of pure gold, with all these utensils." 
Exodus25:40 And see that you make them after the pattern for them, which was shown to you on the mountain." 
Exodus26:1 “Moreover you shall make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twisted linen and blue and purple and scarlet material; you shall make them with cherubim, the work of a skillful designer." 
Exodus26:2 The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits; all the curtains shall have the same measurements." 
Exodus26:3 Five curtains shall be joined to one another, and the other five curtains shall be joined to one another." 
Exodus26:4 And you shall make loops of blue on the edge of the outermost curtain in the one set, and likewise you shall make them on the edge of the curtain that is outermost in the second set." 
Exodus26:5 You shall make fifty loops in the one curtain, and you shall make fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that is in the second set; the loops shall be opposite each other." 
Exodus26:6 You shall make fifty clasps of gold, and you shall join the curtains to one another with the clasps so that the tabernacle will be a unit." 
Exodus26:7 “Then you shall make curtains of goats’ hair for a tent over the tabernacle; you shall make eleven curtains in all. 
Exodus26:8 The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits; the eleven curtains shall have the same measurements." 
Exodus26:9 And you shall join five curtains by themselves and the other six curtains by themselves, and you shall double over the sixth curtain at the front of the tent." 
Exodus26:10 You shall make fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that is outermost in the one set, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that is outermost in the second set." 
Exodus26:11 “You shall make fifty clasps of bronze, and you shall put the clasps into the loops and join the tent together so that it will be one unit." 
Exodus26:12 The overlapping part that is left over in the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that is left over, shall lap over the back of the tabernacle." 
Exodus26:13 The cubit on one side and the cubit on the other, of what is left over in the length of the curtains of the tent, shall lap over the sides of the tabernacle on one side and on the other to cover it." 
Exodus26:14 You shall make a covering for the tent of rams’ skins dyed red and a covering of porpoise skins above. 
Exodus26:15 “Then you shall make the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing upright." 
Exodus26:16 Ten cubits shall be the length of each board, and one and a half cubits the width of each board." 
Exodus26:17 There shall be two tenons for each board, fitted to one another; thus you shall do for all the boards of the tabernacle." 
Exodus26:18 You shall make the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side. 
Exodus26:19 You shall make forty bases of silver under the twenty boards, two bases under one board for its two tenons, and two bases under another board for its two tenons;" 
Exodus26:20 and for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, twenty boards," 
Exodus26:21 and their forty bases of silver; two bases under one board and two bases under another board. 
Exodus26:22 For the rear of the tabernacle, to the west, you shall make six boards." 
Exodus26:23 You shall make two boards for the corners of the tabernacle at the rear. 
Exodus26:24 They shall be separated beneath, but together at their completion at its top, at the first ring; thus it shall be with both of them: they shall form the two corners." 
Exodus26:25 There shall be eight boards with their bases of silver, sixteen bases; two bases under one board and two bases under another board." 
Exodus26:26 “Then you shall make bars of acacia wood, five for the boards of one side of the tabernacle," 
Exodus26:27 and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle for the rear side to the west." 
Exodus26:28 The middle bar in the center of the boards shall pass through from end to end. 
Exodus26:29 You shall overlay the boards with gold and make their rings of gold as holders for the bars; and you shall overlay the bars with gold. 
Exodus26:30 Then you shall erect the tabernacle according to its plan which you have been shown in the mountain. 
Exodus26:31 “You shall make a veil of blue and purple and scarlet material and fine twisted linen; it shall be made with cherubim, the work of a skillful designer." 
Exodus26:32 You shall hang it on four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold, their hooks also being of gold, on four bases of silver." 
Exodus26:33 You shall hang up the veil under the clasps, and you shall bring in the ark of the testimony there within the veil; and the veil shall separate for you the holy place and the Holy of Holies." 
Exodus26:34 You shall put the mercy seat on the ark of the testimony in the Holy of Holies. 
Exodus26:35 You shall set the table outside the veil and the lampstand opposite the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south; and you shall put the table on the north side. 
Exodus26:36 “You shall make a screen for the doorway of the tent of blue and purple and scarlet material and fine twisted linen, the work of a weaver." 
Exodus26:37 You shall make five pillars of acacia for the screen and overlay them with gold, their hooks also being of gold; and you shall cast five bases of bronze for them." 
Exodus27:1 “And you shall make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long and five cubits wide; the altar shall be square, and its height shall be three cubits." 
Exodus27:2 You shall make its horns on its four corners; its horns shall be of the same piece, and you shall overlay it with bronze." 
Exodus27:3 You shall make its pots for removing its ashes, and its shovels and its bowls and its flesh hooks and its firepans; you shall make all its utensils of bronze." 
Exodus27:4 You shall make for it a grating, a network of bronze, and on the net you shall make four bronze rings at its four corners." 
Exodus27:5 You shall put it beneath, under the ledge of the altar, so that the net will reach halfway down the altar." 
Exodus27:6 You shall make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with bronze." 
Exodus27:7 Its poles shall be inserted into the rings, so that the poles shall be on the two sides of the altar when it is carried." 
Exodus27:8 You shall make it hollow with planks; as it was shown to you in the mountain, so they shall make it." 
Exodus27:9 “You shall make the court of the tabernacle. On the south side there shall be hangings for the court of fine twisted linen one hundred cubits long for one side; 
Exodus27:10 and its pillars shall be twenty, with their twenty bases of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their bands shall be of silver." 
Exodus27:11 Likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings one hundred cubits long, and its twenty pillars with their twenty bases of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their bands shall be of silver." 
Exodus27:12 For the width of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits with their ten pillars and their ten bases. 
Exodus27:13 The width of the court on the east side toward the sunrise shall be fifty cubits. 
Exodus27:14 The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits with their three pillars and their three bases. 
Exodus27:15 And for the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits with their three pillars and their three bases. 
Exodus27:16 And as for the gate of the court there shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue and purple and scarlet material and fine twisted linen, the work of a weaver, with their four pillars and their four bases." 
Exodus27:17 All the pillars around the court shall be furnished with silver bands with their hooks of silver and their bases of bronze. 
Exodus27:18 The length of the court shall be one hundred cubits, and the width fifty throughout, and the height five cubits of fine twisted linen, and their bases of bronze." 
Exodus27:19 All the utensils of the tabernacle used in all its service, and all its pegs, and all the pegs of the court, shall be of bronze." 
Exodus27:20 “And you shall command the sons of Israel, that they bring you clear oil of beaten olives for the light, to make a lamp burn continually." 
Exodus27:21 In the tent of meeting, outside the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Yahweh; it shall be a perpetual statute throughout their generations for the sons of Israel." 
Exodus28:1 “Now as for you, bring near to yourself Aaron your brother, and his sons with him, from among the sons of Israel, to minister as priests to Me—Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s sons." 
Exodus28:2 You shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother, for glory and for beauty." 
Exodus28:3 You shall speak to all those wise at heart whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they make Aaron’s garments to set him apart as holy, in order for him to minister as priest to Me." 
Exodus28:4 These are the garments which they shall make: a breastpiece and an ephod and a robe and a tunic of checkered work, a turban and a sash, and they shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother and his sons, in order for him to minister as priest to Me." 
Exodus28:5 They shall take the gold and the blue and the purple and the scarlet material and the fine linen. 
Exodus28:6 “They shall also make the ephod of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet material and fine twisted linen, the work of the skillful designer." 
Exodus28:7 It shall have two shoulder pieces joined to its two ends, that it may be joined." 
Exodus28:8 The skillfully woven band, which is on it, shall be like its workmanship, of the same material: of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet material and fine twisted linen." 
Exodus28:9 You shall take two onyx stones and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel," 
Exodus28:10 six of their names on the one stone and the names of the remaining six on the second stone, according to their birth." 
Exodus28:11 As a jeweler engraves a signet, you shall engrave the two stones according to the names of the sons of Israel; you shall set them all around in filigree settings of gold." 
Exodus28:12 You shall put the two stones on the shoulder pieces of the ephod, as stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel, and Aaron shall bear their names before Yahweh on his two shoulders for remembrance." 
Exodus28:13 You shall make filigree settings of gold," 
Exodus28:14 and two chains of pure gold; you shall make them a twisted work of cords, and you shall put the chains of cords on the filigree settings." 
Exodus28:15 “You shall make a breastpiece of judgment, the work of a skillful designer; like the work of the ephod you shall make it: of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet material and fine twisted linen you shall make it." 
Exodus28:16 It shall be square, having been folded double, a span in length and a span in width." 
Exodus28:17 You shall mount on it four rows of stones; the first row shall be a row of ruby, topaz, and emerald;" 
Exodus28:18 and the second row a turquoise, a sapphire, and a diamond;" 
Exodus28:19 and the third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;" 
Exodus28:20 and the fourth row a beryl and an onyx and a jasper; they shall be set in gold settings. 
Exodus28:21 The stones shall be according to the names of the sons of Israel: twelve, according to their names; they shall be like the engravings of a signet, each according to his name for the twelve tribes." 
Exodus28:22 You shall make on the breastpiece chains of a twisted work of cords in pure gold. 
Exodus28:23 You shall make on the breastpiece two rings of gold, and you shall put the two rings on the two ends of the breastpiece." 
Exodus28:24 You shall put the two cords of gold on the two rings at the ends of the breastpiece. 
Exodus28:25 You shall put the two ends of the two cords on the two filigree settings, and you shall put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it." 
Exodus28:26 You shall make two rings of gold and shall place them on the two ends of the breastpiece, on the edge of it, which is toward the inner side of the ephod." 
Exodus28:27 You shall make two rings of gold and put them on the bottom of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod, on the front of it close to the place where it is joined, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod." 
Exodus28:28 They shall bind the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a blue cord, so that it will be on the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastpiece will not come loose from the ephod." 
Exodus28:29 Aaron shall carry the names of the sons of Israel in the breastpiece of judgment over his heart when he comes into the holy place, for a remembrance before Yahweh continually." 
Exodus28:30 You shall put in the breastpiece of judgment the Urim and the Thummim, and they shall be over Aaron’s heart when he comes in before Yahweh; and Aaron shall carry the judgment of the sons of Israel over his heart before Yahweh continually." 
Exodus28:31 “You shall make the robe of the ephod entirely of blue. 
Exodus28:32 There shall be an opening at its top in the middle of it; around the edge of its opening there shall be a binding of woven work, like the opening of a coat of mail, so that it will not be torn." 
Exodus28:33 You shall make on its hem pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet material, all around on its hem, and bells of gold between them all around:" 
Exodus28:34 a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, all around on the hem of the robe." 
Exodus28:35 It shall be on Aaron when he ministers; and its sound shall be heard when he comes into the holy place before Yahweh and when he goes out, so that he will not die." 
Exodus28:36 “You shall also make a plate of pure gold and shall engrave on it, like the engravings of a signet, ‘Holy to Yahweh.’" 
Exodus28:37 You shall fasten it on a blue cord, and it shall be on the turban; it shall be at the front of the turban." 
Exodus28:38 It shall be on Aaron’s forehead, and Aaron shall take away the iniquity of the holy things which the sons of Israel set apart as holy, with regard to all their holy gifts; and it shall continually be on his forehead, that they may be accepted before Yahweh." 
Exodus28:39 “You shall weave the tunic of checkered work of fine linen, and you shall make a turban of fine linen, and you shall make a sash, the work of a weaver." 
Exodus28:40 “For Aaron’s sons you shall make tunics; you shall also make sashes for them, and you shall make caps for them, for glory and for beauty." 
Exodus28:41 You shall put them on Aaron your brother and on his sons with him; and you shall anoint them and ordain them and set them apart as holy, that they may minister to Me as priests." 
Exodus28:42 You shall make for them linen undergarments to cover their bare flesh; they shall reach from the loins even to the thighs. 
Exodus28:43 They shall be on Aaron and on his sons when they come into the tent of meeting or when they approach the altar to minister in the holy place, so that they do not incur guilt and die. It shall be a perpetual statute to him and to his seed after him." 
Exodus29:1 “Now this is what you shall do to them to set them apart as holy to minister as priests to Me: take one bull from the herd and two rams without blemish," 
Exodus29:2 and unleavened bread and unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers spread with oil; you shall make them of fine wheat flour." 
Exodus29:3 And you shall put them in one basket and bring them near in the basket along with the bull and the two rams. 
Exodus29:4 Then you shall bring Aaron and his sons near to the doorway of the tent of meeting and wash them with water. 
Exodus29:5 And you shall take the garments, and put on Aaron the tunic and the robe of the ephod and the ephod and the breastpiece, and gird him with the skillfully woven band of the ephod;" 
Exodus29:6 and you shall set the turban on his head and put the holy crown on the turban. 
Exodus29:7 Then you shall take the anointing oil and pour it on his head and anoint him. 
Exodus29:8 And you shall bring his sons near and put tunics on them. 
Exodus29:9 You shall gird them with sashes, Aaron and his sons, and bind caps on them, and they shall have the priesthood by a perpetual statute. So you shall ordain Aaron and his sons." 
Exodus29:10 “Then you shall bring the bull near before the tent of meeting, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the bull." 
Exodus29:11 You shall slaughter the bull before Yahweh at the doorway of the tent of meeting. 
Exodus29:12 You shall take some of the blood of the bull and put it on the horns of the altar with your finger; and you shall pour out all the blood at the base of the altar. 
Exodus29:13 You shall take all the fat that covers the entrails and the lobe of the liver and the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, and you shall offer them up in smoke on the altar." 
Exodus29:14 But the flesh of the bull and its hide and its refuse, you shall burn with fire outside the camp; it is a sin offering." 
Exodus29:15 “You shall also take the one ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram;" 
Exodus29:16 and you shall slaughter the ram, and you shall take its blood and splash it around on the altar." 
Exodus29:17 Then you shall cut the ram into its pieces, and wash its entrails and its legs, and put them with its pieces and its head." 
Exodus29:18 You shall offer up in smoke the whole ram on the altar; it is a burnt offering to Yahweh: it is a soothing aroma, an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Exodus29:19 “Then you shall take the second ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram." 
Exodus29:20 You shall slaughter the ram, and take some of its blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron’s right ear and on the lobes of his sons’ right ears and on the thumbs of their right hands and on the big toes of their right feet, and splash the rest of the blood around on the altar." 
Exodus29:21 Then you shall take some of the blood that is on the altar and some of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aaron and on his garments and on his sons and on his sons’ garments with him; so he and his garments shall be set apart as holy, as well as his sons and his sons’ garments with him." 
Exodus29:22 “You shall also take the fat from the ram and the fat tail and the fat that covers the entrails and the lobe of the liver and the two kidneys and the fat that is on them and the right thigh (for it is a ram of ordination)," 
Exodus29:23 and one cake of bread and one cake of bread mixed with oil and one wafer from the basket of unleavened bread which is set before Yahweh; 
Exodus29:24 and you shall put all these in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons, and you shall wave them as a wave offering before Yahweh." 
Exodus29:25 You shall take them from their hands and offer them up in smoke on the altar on the burnt offering for a soothing aroma before Yahweh; it is an offering by fire to Yahweh. 
Exodus29:26 “Then you shall take the breast of Aaron’s ram of ordination and wave it as a wave offering before Yahweh; and it shall be your portion. 
Exodus29:27 You shall set apart as holy the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the contribution offering which was waved and which was raised up as a contribution from the ram of ordination, from the one which was for Aaron and from the one which was for his sons." 
Exodus29:28 It shall be for Aaron and his sons as a perpetual statute from the sons of Israel, for it is a contribution offering; and it shall be a contribution offering from the sons of Israel from the sacrifices of their peace offerings, even their contribution offering to Yahweh." 
Exodus29:29 “The holy garments of Aaron shall be for his sons after him, that in them they may be anointed and ordained." 
Exodus29:30 For seven days the one of his sons who is priest in his stead shall put them on when he comes into the tent of meeting to minister in the holy place. 
Exodus29:31 “You shall take the ram of ordination and boil its flesh in a holy place. 
Exodus29:32 Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram and the bread that is in the basket, at the doorway of the tent of meeting." 
Exodus29:33 Thus they shall eat those things by which atonement was made to ordain them, to set them apart as holy; but a layman shall not eat them, because they are holy." 
Exodus29:34 If any of the flesh of ordination or any of the bread remains until morning, then you shall burn the remainder with fire; it shall not be eaten, because it is holy." 
Exodus29:35 “Thus you shall do to Aaron and to his sons, according to all that I have commanded you; you shall ordain them through seven days." 
Exodus29:36 Each day you shall offer a bull as a sin offering for atonement, and you shall purify the altar when you make atonement for it, and you shall anoint it to set it apart as holy." 
Exodus29:37 For seven days you shall make atonement for the altar and set it apart as holy; then the altar shall be most holy, and whatever touches the altar shall be holy." 
Exodus29:38 “Now this is what you shall offer on the altar: two one year old lambs each day, continuously." 
Exodus29:39 The one lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the second lamb you shall offer at twilight;" 
Exodus29:40 and there shall be one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with one-fourth of a hin of beaten oil, and one-fourth of a hin of wine for a drink offering with the one lamb." 
Exodus29:41 The second lamb you shall offer at twilight, and you shall offer with it the same grain offering and the same drink offering as in the morning, for a soothing aroma, an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Exodus29:42 It shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the doorway of the tent of meeting before Yahweh, where I will meet with you, to speak to you there." 
Exodus29:43 I will meet there with the sons of Israel, and it shall be set apart as holy by My glory." 
Exodus29:44 I will set the tent of meeting and the altar apart as holy; I will also set Aaron and his sons apart as holy to minister as priests to Me. 
Exodus29:45 I will dwell among the sons of Israel and will be their God. 
Exodus29:46 They shall know that I am Yahweh their God who brought them out of the land of Egypt, that I might dwell among them; I am Yahweh their God." 
Exodus30:1 “Moreover, you shall make an altar as a place for burning incense; you shall make it of acacia wood." 
Exodus30:2 Its length shall be a cubit, and its width a cubit; it shall be square. And its height shall be two cubits; its horns shall be of the same piece." 
Exodus30:3 You shall overlay it with pure gold, its top and its sides all around, and its horns; and you shall make a gold molding all around for it." 
Exodus30:4 You shall make two gold rings for it under its molding; you shall make them on its two side walls—on opposite sides—and they shall be holders for poles with which to carry it. 
Exodus30:5 You shall make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold. 
Exodus30:6 You shall put this altar in front of the veil that is near the ark of the testimony, in front of the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with you." 
Exodus30:7 Aaron shall burn fragrant incense on it; he shall burn it every morning when he trims the lamps. 
Exodus30:8 When Aaron trims the lamps at twilight, he shall burn incense. There shall be continual incense before Yahweh throughout your generations." 
Exodus30:9 You shall not offer any strange incense on this altar or burnt offering or grain offering; and you shall not pour out a drink offering on it. 
Exodus30:10 Aaron shall make atonement on its horns once a year; he shall make atonement on it with the blood of the sin offering of atonement once a year throughout your generations. It is most holy to Yahweh.” 
Exodus30:11 Yahweh also spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus30:12 “When you take a census of the sons of Israel to number them, then each one of them shall give a price of atonement for himself to Yahweh when you number them, so that there will be no plague among them when you number them." 
Exodus30:13 This is what everyone who is numbered shall give: half a shekel according to the shekel of the sanctuary (the shekel is twenty gerahs), half a shekel as a contribution to Yahweh." 
Exodus30:14 Everyone who is numbered, from twenty years old and over, shall give the contribution to Yahweh." 
Exodus30:15 The rich shall not pay more and the poor shall not pay less than the half shekel when you give the contribution to Yahweh to make atonement for your souls. 
Exodus30:16 And you shall take the atonement money from the sons of Israel and shall give it for the service of the tent of meeting, that it may be a remembrance for the sons of Israel before Yahweh, to make atonement for your souls.”" 
Exodus30:17 And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus30:18 “You shall also make a laver of bronze, with its stand of bronze, for washing; and you shall put it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and you shall put water in it." 
Exodus30:19 And Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet from it; 
Exodus30:20 when they come into the tent of meeting, they shall wash with water, so that they will not die; or when they approach the altar to minister, by offering up in smoke a fire sacrifice to Yahweh." 
Exodus30:21 So they shall wash their hands and their feet, so that they will not die; and it shall be a perpetual statute for them, for Aaron and his seed throughout their generations.”" 
Exodus30:22 Moreover, Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus30:23 “But as for you, take for yourself the finest of spices: of flowing myrrh 500 shekels, and of fragrant cinnamon half as much, 250, and of fragrant cane 250," 
Exodus30:24 and of cassia 500, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, and of olive oil a hin." 
Exodus30:25 And you shall make of these a holy anointing oil, a perfume mixture, the work of a perfumer; it shall be a holy anointing oil." 
Exodus30:26 And with it you shall anoint the tent of meeting and the ark of the testimony," 
Exodus30:27 and the table and all its utensils, and the lampstand and its utensils, and the altar of incense," 
Exodus30:28 and the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and the laver and its stand." 
Exodus30:29 You shall also set them apart as holy, that they may be most holy; whatever touches them shall be holy." 
Exodus30:30 And you shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and you shall set them apart as holy, that they may minister as priests to Me." 
Exodus30:31 And you shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘This shall be a holy anointing oil to Me throughout your generations." 
Exodus30:32 It shall not be poured on anyone’s body, nor shall you make any like it in the same specifications; it is holy, and it shall be holy to you." 
Exodus30:33 Whoever shall mix any like it or whoever puts any of it on a layman shall be cut off from his people.’” 
Exodus30:34 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Take for yourself fragrances, stacte and onycha and galbanum, fragrances with pure frankincense; there shall be an equal part of each." 
Exodus30:35 With it you shall make incense, a perfume, the work of a perfumer, salted, pure, and holy." 
Exodus30:36 You shall beat some of it very fine, and you shall put part of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting where I will meet with you; it shall be most holy to you." 
Exodus30:37 The incense which you shall make, you shall not make in the same specifications for yourselves; it shall be holy to you for Yahweh." 
Exodus30:38 Whoever shall make any like it, to use as perfume, shall be cut off from his people.”" 
Exodus31:1 And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus31:2 “See, I have called by name Bezalel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah." 
Exodus31:3 And I have filled him with the Spirit of God in wisdom, in discernment, in knowledge, and in all kinds of craftsmanship," 
Exodus31:4 to devise artistic designs for work in gold, in silver, and in bronze," 
Exodus31:5 and in the cutting of stones for settings, and in the carving of wood, in order for him to work in all kinds of craftsmanship." 
Exodus31:6 And behold, I Myself have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the hearts of all who are wise at heart I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have commanded you:" 
Exodus31:7 the tent of meeting, and the ark of testimony, and the mercy seat upon it, and all the furniture of the tent," 
Exodus31:8 the table also and its utensils, and the pure gold lampstand with all its utensils, and the altar of incense," 
Exodus31:9 the altar of burnt offering also with all its utensils, and the laver and its stand," 
Exodus31:10 the woven garments as well, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, with which to minister as priests;" 
Exodus31:11 the anointing oil also, and the fragrant incense for the holy place, they shall make them according to all that I have commanded you.”" 
Exodus31:12 Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus31:13 “But as for you, speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘You shall surely keep My sabbaths; for this is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am Yahweh who makes you holy." 
Exodus31:14 Therefore you shall keep the sabbath, for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work on it, that person shall be cut off from among his people." 
Exodus31:15 Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day there is a sabbath of complete rest, holy to Yahweh; whoever does any work on the sabbath day shall surely be put to death." 
Exodus31:16 So the sons of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to celebrate the sabbath throughout their generations as an everlasting covenant.’" 
Exodus31:17 It is a sign between Me and the sons of Israel forever; for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, but on the seventh day He rested and was refreshed.”" 
Exodus31:18 When He had finished speaking with him upon Mount Sinai, He gave Moses the two tablets of the testimony, tablets of stone, written by the finger of God." 
Exodus32:1 Then the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain. So the people assembled about Aaron and said to him, “Arise, make us gods who will go before us; as for this Moses, the man who brought us up from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.”" 
Exodus32:2 And Aaron said to them, “Tear off the gold rings which are in the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me.”" 
Exodus32:3 Then all the people tore off the gold rings which were in their ears and brought them to Aaron. 
Exodus32:4 And he took this from their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool and made it into a molten calf; and they said, “These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up from the land of Egypt.”" 
Exodus32:5 And Aaron looked and built an altar before it; and Aaron made a proclamation and said, “Tomorrow shall be a feast to Yahweh.”" 
Exodus32:6 So the next day they rose early and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and to drink and rose up to play. 
Exodus32:7 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, “Go! Go down at once, for your people, whom you brought up from the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves." 
Exodus32:8 They have quickly turned aside from the way which I commanded them. They have made for themselves a molten calf and have worshiped it and have sacrificed to it and said, ‘These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up from the land of Egypt!’”" 
Exodus32:9 And Yahweh said to Moses, “I have seen this people, and behold, they are a stiff-necked people." 
Exodus32:10 Now then let Me alone, that My anger may burn against them and that I may consume them; and I will make you a great nation.”" 
Exodus32:11 Then Moses entreated the favor of Yahweh his God and said, “O Yahweh, why does Your anger burn against Your people whom You have brought out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a strong hand?" 
Exodus32:12 Why should the Egyptians speak, saying, ‘With evil intent He brought them out to kill them in the mountains and to consume them from the face of the earth’? Turn from Your burning anger and relent concerning doing harm to Your people." 
Exodus32:13 Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, Your servants to whom You swore by Yourself, and You said to them, ‘I will multiply your seed as the stars of the heavens, and all this land of which I have spoken I will give to your seed, and they shall inherit it forever.’”" 
Exodus32:14 So Yahweh relented concerning the harm which He said He would do to His people. 
Exodus32:15 Then Moses turned and went down from the mountain. And the two tablets of the testimony were in his hand, tablets which were written on both sides; they were written on one side and the other." 
Exodus32:16 Now the tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God engraved on the tablets." 
Exodus32:17 Then Joshua heard the sound of the people as they shouted. And he said to Moses, “There is a sound of war in the camp.”" 
Exodus32:17 Then Joshua heard the sound of the people as they shouted. And he said to Moses, “There is a sound of war in the camp.”" 
Exodus32:18 But he said, “It is not the sound of the cry of triumph, Nor is it the sound of the cry of defeat; But the sound of singing I hear.”" 
Exodus32:19 Now it happened, as soon as Moses came near the camp, that he saw the calf and the dancing; and Moses’ anger burned, and he threw the tablets from his hands and shattered them at the foot of the mountain." 
Exodus32:20 Then he took the calf which they had made and burned it with fire and ground it to powder and scattered it over the surface of the water and made the sons of Israel drink it. 
Exodus32:21 Then Moses said to Aaron, “What did this people do to you, that you have brought such great sin upon them?”" 
Exodus32:22 And Aaron said, “Do not let the anger of my lord burn; you know the people yourself, that they are prone to evil." 
Exodus32:23 Indeed they said to me, ‘Make gods for us who will go before us; for this Moses, the man who brought us up from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.’" 
Exodus32:24 And I said to them, ‘Whoever has any gold, let them tear it off.’ So they gave it to me, and I threw it into the fire, and out came this calf.”" 
Exodus32:25 Now Moses saw that the people were out of control—for Aaron had let them get out of control to be a derision among their enemies— 
Exodus32:26 so Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, “Whoever is for Yahweh, come to me!” And all the sons of Levi gathered together to him." 
Exodus32:27 And he said to them, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Every man among you put his sword upon his thigh, and go back and forth from gate to gate in the camp, and kill every man his brother and every man his friend and every man his neighbor.’”" 
Exodus32:28 So the sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses, and about three thousand men of the people fell that day." 
Exodus32:29 Then Moses said, “Be ordained today to Yahweh—for every man has been against his son and against his brother—in order that He may bestow a blessing upon you today.”" 
Exodus32:30 Now it happened on the next day, that Moses said to the people, “You yourselves have committed a great sin; but now I am going up to Yahweh, perhaps I can make atonement for your sin.”" 
Exodus32:31 Then Moses returned to Yahweh and said, “Alas, this people has committed a great sin, and they have made gods of gold for themselves." 
Exodus32:32 But now, if You will forgive their sin—but if not, please blot me out from Your book which You have written!”" 
Exodus32:33 And Yahweh said to Moses, “Whoever has sinned against Me, I will blot him out of My book." 
Exodus32:34 But now go, guide the people where I told you. Behold, My angel shall go before you; nevertheless in the day when I punish, I will punish them for their sin.”" 
Exodus32:35 Then Yahweh smote the people because of what they did with the calf which Aaron had made. 
Exodus33:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, “Go! Go up from here, you and the people whom you have brought up from the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, ‘To your seed I will give it.’" 
Exodus33:2 And I will send an angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite." 
Exodus33:3 Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey; for I will not go up in your midst because you are a stiff-necked people, lest I consume you on the way.”" 
Exodus33:4 Then the people heard this sad word and went into mourning; and none of them put on his ornaments. 
Exodus33:5 So Yahweh said to Moses, “Say to the sons of Israel, ‘You are a stiff-necked people; should I go up in your midst for one moment, I would consume you. So now, put off your ornaments from you, that I may know what I shall do with you.’”" 
Exodus33:6 So the sons of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments, from Mount Horeb onward." 
Exodus33:7 Now Moses used to take the tent and pitch it outside the camp, a good distance from the camp, and he called it the tent of meeting. And everyone who sought Yahweh would go out to the tent of meeting which was outside the camp." 
Exodus33:8 And it happened whenever Moses went out to the tent, that all the people would arise and stand, each at the entrance of his tent, and gaze after Moses until he entered the tent." 
Exodus33:9 And it happened whenever Moses entered the tent, that the pillar of cloud would descend and stand at the entrance of the tent; and Yahweh would speak with Moses." 
Exodus33:10 And all the people would see the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance of the tent. And all the people would arise and worship, each at the entrance of his tent." 
Exodus33:11 Thus Yahweh used to speak to Moses face to face, just as a man speaks to his friend. Then Moses would return to the camp, and his attendant Joshua the son of Nun, a young man, would not depart from the tent." 
Exodus33:11 Thus Yahweh used to speak to Moses face to face, just as a man speaks to his friend. Then Moses would return to the camp, and his attendant Joshua the son of Nun, a young man, would not depart from the tent." 
Exodus33:12 Then Moses said to Yahweh, “See, You say to me, ‘Bring up this people!’ But You Yourself have not let me know whom You will send with me. Moreover, You have said, ‘I have known you by name, and you have also found favor in My sight.’" 
Exodus33:13 So now, I pray You, if I have found favor in Your sight, let me know Your ways that I may know You, so that I may find favor in Your sight. See also, that this nation is Your people.”" 
Exodus33:14 And He said, “My presence shall go with you, and I will give you rest.”" 
Exodus33:15 Then he said to Him, “If Your presence does not go with us, do not lead us up from here." 
Exodus33:16 Indeed, how then can it be known that I have found favor in Your sight, I and Your people? Is it not by Your going with us, so that we, I and Your people, may be distinguished from all the other people who are upon the face of the earth?”" 
Exodus33:17 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “I will also do this thing of which you have spoken; for you have found favor in My sight, and I have known you by name.”" 
Exodus33:18 Then Moses said, “I pray You, show me Your glory!”" 
Exodus33:19 And He said, “I Myself will make all My goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of Yahweh before you; and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will show compassion on whom I will show compassion.”" 
Exodus33:20 But He said, “You cannot see My face, for no man can see Me and live!”" 
Exodus33:21 Then Yahweh said, “Behold, there is a place by Me, and you shall stand there on the rock;" 
Exodus33:22 and it will come about, while My glory is passing by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock and cover you with My hand until I have passed by." 
Exodus33:23 Then I will remove My hand, and you shall see My back, but My face shall not be seen.”" 
Exodus34:1 Now Yahweh said to Moses, “Carve out for yourself two stone tablets like the former ones, and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the former tablets which you shattered." 
Exodus34:2 So be prepared by morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to Me on the top of the mountain." 
Exodus34:3 And no man is to come up with you, nor let any man be seen anywhere on the mountain; even the flocks and the herds may not graze in front of that mountain.”" 
Exodus34:4 So he carved out two stone tablets like the former ones, and Moses rose up early in the morning and went up to Mount Sinai, as Yahweh had commanded him, and he took two stone tablets in his hand." 
Exodus34:5 Then Yahweh descended in the cloud and stood there with him, and He called upon the name of Yahweh." 
Exodus34:6 Then Yahweh passed by in front of him and called out, “Yahweh, Yahweh God, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in lovingkindness and truth;" 
Exodus34:7 who keeps lovingkindness for thousands, who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin; yet He will by no means leave the guilty unpunished, visiting the iniquity of fathers on the children and on the grandchildren to the third and fourth generations.”" 
Exodus34:8 And Moses made haste to bow low toward the earth and worship. 
Exodus34:9 And he said, “If now I have found favor in Your sight, O Lord, I pray, let the Lord go along in our midst, even though they are a stiff-necked people, and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us as Your own inheritance.”" 
Exodus34:10 Then God said, “Behold, I am going to cut a covenant. Before all your people I will do wondrous deeds which have not been created in all the earth nor among any of the nations; and all the people among whom you live will see the working of Yahweh, for it is a fearful thing that I am going to do with you." 
Exodus34:11 “Be sure to keep what I am commanding you this day: behold, I am going to drive out the Amorite before you, and the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite." 
Exodus34:12 Beware lest you cut a covenant with the inhabitants of the land into which you are going, lest it become a snare in your midst." 
Exodus34:13 But rather, you are to tear down their altars and shatter their sacred pillars and cut down their Asherim" 
Exodus34:14 —for you shall not worship any other god, for Yahweh, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God—" 
Exodus34:15 lest you cut a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they play the harlot with their gods and sacrifice to their gods, and one of them invite you to eat of his sacrifice," 
Exodus34:16 and you take some of his daughters for your sons, and his daughters play the harlot with their gods and cause your sons also to play the harlot with their gods." 
Exodus34:17 You shall make for yourself no molten gods. 
Exodus34:18 “You shall keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread. For seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, which I commanded you, at the appointed time in the month of Abib, for in the month of Abib you came out of Egypt." 
Exodus34:19 “The first offspring from every womb belongs to Me, even of all your male livestock, the first offspring from cattle and sheep." 
Exodus34:20 And you shall redeem with a lamb the first offspring from a donkey; and if you do not redeem it, then you shall break its neck. You shall redeem all the firstborn of your sons. None shall appear before Me empty-handed." 
Exodus34:21 “You shall work six days, but on the seventh day you shall rest; even during plowing time and harvest you shall rest." 
Exodus34:22 And you shall celebrate the Feast of Weeks, that is, the first fruits of the wheat harvest, and the Feast of Ingathering at the turn of the year." 
Exodus34:23 Three times a year all your males are to appear before the Lord Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Exodus34:24 For I will dispossess nations before you and enlarge your borders, and no man shall covet your land when you go up three times a year to appear before Yahweh your God." 
Exodus34:25 “You shall not offer the blood of My sacrifice with leavened bread, and the sacrifice of the Feast of the Passover shall not be left over until morning." 
Exodus34:26 “You shall bring the very first of the first fruits of your ground into the house of Yahweh your God. “You shall not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.” 
Exodus34:27 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Write down these words, for in accordance with these words I have cut a covenant with you and with Israel.”" 
Exodus34:28 So he was there with Yahweh forty days and forty nights; he did not eat bread or drink water. And he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments." 
Exodus34:29 Now it happened when Moses was coming down from Mount Sinai (and the two tablets of the testimony were in Moses’ hand as he was coming down from the mountain), that Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone because of his speaking with Him." 
Exodus34:30 Then Aaron and all the sons of Israel saw Moses, and behold, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him." 
Exodus34:31 Then Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the rulers in the congregation returned to him; and Moses spoke to them." 
Exodus34:32 And afterward all the sons of Israel came near, and he commanded them everything that Yahweh had spoken to him on Mount Sinai." 
Exodus34:33 Then Moses finished speaking with them and put a veil over his face. 
Exodus34:34 But whenever Moses went in before Yahweh to speak with Him, he would take off the veil until he came out; and then he would come out and speak to the sons of Israel what he had been commanded," 
Exodus34:35 and the sons of Israel would see the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses’ face shone. So Moses would return the veil over his face until he went in to speak with Him." 
Exodus35:1 Then Moses assembled all the congregation of the sons of Israel and said to them, “These are the things that Yahweh has commanded you to do:" 
Exodus35:2 “Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a holy day, a sabbath of complete rest to Yahweh; whoever does any work on it shall be put to death." 
Exodus35:3 You shall not kindle a fire in any of your places of habitation on the sabbath day.” 
Exodus35:4 And Moses spoke to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, saying, “This is the thing which Yahweh has commanded, saying," 
Exodus35:5 ‘Take from among you a contribution to Yahweh; whoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it as a contribution to Yahweh: gold, silver, and bronze," 
Exodus35:6 and blue, purple, and scarlet material, fine linen, goats’ hair," 
Exodus35:7 and rams’ skins dyed red, and porpoise skins, and acacia wood," 
Exodus35:8 and oil for lighting, and spices for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense," 
Exodus35:9 and onyx stones and setting stones for the ephod and for the breastpiece. 
Exodus35:10 ‘And let everyone wise at heart among you come and make all that Yahweh has commanded: 
Exodus35:11 the tabernacle, its tent and its covering, its clasps and its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its bases;" 
Exodus35:12 the ark and its poles, the mercy seat, and the curtain of the screen;" 
Exodus35:13 the table and its poles, and all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence;" 
Exodus35:14 the lampstand also for the light and its utensils and its lamps and the oil for the light; 
Exodus35:15 and the altar of incense and its poles, and the anointing oil and the fragrant incense, and the screen for the doorway at the entrance of the tabernacle;" 
Exodus35:16 the altar of burnt offering with its bronze grating, its poles, and all its utensils, the laver and its stand;" 
Exodus35:17 the hangings of the court, its pillars and its bases, and the screen for the gate of the court;" 
Exodus35:18 the pegs of the tabernacle and the pegs of the court and their cords; 
Exodus35:19 the woven garments for ministering in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons, to minister as priests.’”" 
Exodus35:20 Then all the congregation of the sons of Israel went out from Moses’ presence. 
Exodus35:21 And everyone whose heart stirred him and everyone whose spirit was willing came and brought the contribution to Yahweh for the work of the tent of meeting and for all its service and for the holy garments. 
Exodus35:22 Then all whose hearts were willing, both men and women, came and brought brooches and earrings and signet rings and bracelets, all articles of gold; so did every man who waved it as a wave offering of gold to Yahweh." 
Exodus35:23 And every man, who had in his possession blue and purple and scarlet material and fine linen and goats’ hair and rams’ skins dyed red and porpoise skins, brought them." 
Exodus35:24 Everyone who could raise up a contribution of silver and bronze brought the contribution to Yahweh; and every man who had in his possession acacia wood for any work of the service brought it. 
Exodus35:25 All the women wise at heart spun with their hands and brought what they had spun, in blue and purple and scarlet material and in fine linen." 
Exodus35:26 And all the women whose heart stirred with wisdom spun the goats’ hair. 
Exodus35:27 And the rulers brought the onyx stones and the stones for setting for the ephod and for the breastpiece; 
Exodus35:28 and the spice and the oil for the light and for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense. 
Exodus35:29 The sons of Israel—all the men and women whose heart was willing to bring material for all the work, which Yahweh had commanded through the hand of Moses to do—brought a freewill offering to Yahweh." 
Exodus35:30 Then Moses said to the sons of Israel, “See, Yahweh has called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah." 
Exodus35:31 And He has filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, in discernment, and in knowledge, and in all craftsmanship;" 
Exodus35:32 to devise designs for working in gold and in silver and in bronze," 
Exodus35:33 and in the cutting of stones for settings and in the carving of wood, so as to do well in every work of thoughtful design." 
Exodus35:34 He also has put in his heart to teach, both he and Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan." 
Exodus35:35 He has filled them with wisdom in their heart to do every work of an engraver and of a designer and of an embroiderer, in blue and in purple and in scarlet material and in fine linen, and of a weaver, as those who do every work and make designs." 
Exodus36:1 “Now Bezalel and Oholiab and every person wise at heart, to whom Yahweh has given wisdom and discernment to know how to do all the work of the service of constructing the sanctuary, shall do in accordance with all that Yahweh has commanded.”" 
Exodus36:2 Then Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab and every person wise at heart to whom Yahweh had given wisdom, everyone whose heart stirred him, to come to the work to do it." 
Exodus36:3 And they received from Moses the entire contribution which the sons of Israel had brought to do the work in the service of the sanctuary. And they still continued bringing to him freewill offerings every morning. 
Exodus36:4 And all the wise men who were doing all the work of the sanctuary came, each from the work which he was doing," 
Exodus36:5 and they said to Moses, “The people are bringing much more than enough for the service of the work which Yahweh commanded us to do.”" 
Exodus36:6 So Moses commanded and a proclamation was passed throughout the camp, saying, “Let no man or woman any longer do the work for the contributions of the sanctuary.” Thus the people were restrained from bringing any more." 
Exodus36:7 Indeed, the material they had was sufficient and more than enough for all the work, to do it." 
Exodus36:8 And all those wise at heart among those who were doing the work made the tabernacle with ten curtains; of fine twisted linen and blue and purple and scarlet material, with cherubim, the work of a skillful designer, Bezalel made them." 
Exodus36:9 The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits and the width of each curtain four cubits; all the curtains had the same measurements. 
Exodus36:10 He joined five curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he joined to one another." 
Exodus36:11 He made loops of blue on the edge of the outermost curtain in the first set; he did likewise on the edge of the curtain that was outermost in the second set. 
Exodus36:12 He made fifty loops in the one curtain, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was in the second set; the loops were opposite each other." 
Exodus36:13 He made fifty clasps of gold and joined the curtains to one another with the clasps, so the tabernacle was one unit." 
Exodus36:14 Then he made curtains of goats’ hair for a tent over the tabernacle; he made eleven curtains in all. 
Exodus36:15 The length of each curtain was thirty cubits and four cubits the width of each curtain; the eleven curtains had the same measurements. 
Exodus36:16 He joined five curtains by themselves and the other six curtains by themselves. 
Exodus36:17 Moreover, he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was outermost in the first set, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was outermost in the second set." 
Exodus36:18 He made fifty clasps of bronze to join the tent together so that it would be a unit. 
Exodus36:19 He made a covering for the tent of rams’ skins dyed red and a covering of porpoise skins above. 
Exodus36:20 Then he made the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing upright." 
Exodus36:21 Ten cubits was the length of each board and one and a half cubits the width of each board. 
Exodus36:22 There were two tenons for each board, fitted to one another; thus he did for all the boards of the tabernacle." 
Exodus36:23 And he made the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side; 
Exodus36:24 and he made forty bases of silver under the twenty boards; two bases under one board for its two tenons and two bases under another board for its two tenons. 
Exodus36:25 Then for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, he made twenty boards," 
Exodus36:26 and their forty bases of silver; two bases under one board and two bases under another board. 
Exodus36:27 For the rear of the tabernacle, to the west, he made six boards." 
Exodus36:28 And he made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle at the rear. 
Exodus36:29 And they were separated beneath, but were together at their completion at the top, at the first ring; thus he did with both of them for the two corners." 
Exodus36:30 And there were eight boards with their bases of silver, sixteen bases, two bases under every board." 
Exodus36:31 Then he made bars of acacia wood, five for the boards of one side of the tabernacle," 
Exodus36:32 and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the rear side to the west." 
Exodus36:33 And he made the middle bar to pass through in the center of the boards from end to end. 
Exodus36:34 He also overlaid the boards with gold and made their rings of gold as holders for the bars and overlaid the bars with gold. 
Exodus36:35 Moreover, he made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet material and fine twisted linen; he made it with cherubim, the work of a skillful designer." 
Exodus36:36 And he made four pillars of acacia for it and overlaid them with gold, with their hooks of gold; and he cast four bases of silver for them." 
Exodus36:37 And he made a screen for the doorway of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet material and fine twisted linen, the work of a weaver;" 
Exodus36:38 and he made its five pillars with their hooks, and he overlaid their tops and their bands with gold; but their five bases were of bronze." 
Exodus37:1 And Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood; its length was two and a half cubits, and its width one and a half cubits, and its height one and a half cubits;" 
Exodus37:2 and he overlaid it with pure gold inside and out, and made a gold molding for it all around." 
Exodus37:3 He cast four rings of gold for it on its four feet; even two rings on one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it." 
Exodus37:4 He made poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold. 
Exodus37:5 He put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark to carry it. 
Exodus37:6 He made a mercy seat of pure gold, two and a half cubits long and one and a half cubits wide." 
Exodus37:7 He made two cherubim of gold; he made them of hammered work at the two ends of the mercy seat; 
Exodus37:8 one cherub at the one end and one cherub at the other end; from one piece he made the mercy seat with the cherubim at its two ends. 
Exodus37:9 The cherubim had their wings spread upward, covering the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces toward each other; the faces of the cherubim were toward the mercy seat." 
Exodus37:10 Then he made the table of acacia wood, two cubits long and a cubit wide and one and a half cubits high." 
Exodus37:11 He overlaid it with pure gold and made a gold molding for it all around. 
Exodus37:12 He made a rim for it of a handbreadth all around and made a gold molding for its rim all around. 
Exodus37:13 He cast four gold rings for it and put the rings on the four corners that were on its four feet. 
Exodus37:14 Close to the rim were the rings, the holders for the poles to carry the table." 
Exodus37:15 He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold, to carry the table." 
Exodus37:16 He made the utensils which were on the table, its dishes and its pans and its offering bowls and its jars, with which to pour out drink offerings, of pure gold." 
Exodus37:17 Then he made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand of hammered work, its base and its shaft; its cups, its bulbs, and its flowers were of the same piece." 
Exodus37:18 There were six branches going out of its sides; three branches of the lampstand from the one side of it and three branches of the lampstand from the other side of it; 
Exodus37:19 three cups shaped like almond blossoms, a bulb and a flower in one branch, and three cups shaped like almond blossoms, a bulb and a flower in the other branch—so for the six branches coming out of the lampstand." 
Exodus37:20 In the lampstand there were four cups shaped like almond blossoms, its bulbs and its flowers;" 
Exodus37:21 and a bulb was under the first pair of branches coming out of it, and a bulb under the second pair of branches coming out of it, and a bulb under the third pair of branches coming out of it, for the six branches coming out of the lampstand." 
Exodus37:22 Their bulbs and their branches were of one piece with it; the whole of it was a single hammered work of pure gold. 
Exodus37:23 He made its seven lamps with its tongs and its trays of pure gold. 
Exodus37:24 He made it and all its utensils from a talent of pure gold. 
Exodus37:25 Then he made the altar of incense of acacia wood: a cubit long and a cubit wide, square, and two cubits high; its horns were of one piece with it." 
Exodus37:26 He overlaid it with pure gold, its top and its sides all around, and its horns; and he made a gold molding for it all around." 
Exodus37:27 He made two golden rings for it under its molding, on its two sides—on opposite sides—as holders for poles with which to carry it." 
Exodus37:28 He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold. 
Exodus37:29 And he made the holy anointing oil and the pure, fragrant incense of spices, the work of a perfumer." 
Exodus38:1 Then he made the altar of burnt offering of acacia wood, five cubits long, and five cubits wide, square, and three cubits high." 
Exodus38:2 He made its horns on its four corners, its horns being of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with bronze." 
Exodus38:3 He made all the utensils of the altar, the pots and the shovels and the bowls, the flesh hooks and the firepans; he made all its utensils of bronze." 
Exodus38:4 He made for the altar a grating of a network of bronze beneath, under its ledge, reaching halfway down." 
Exodus38:5 He cast four rings on the four ends of the bronze grating as holders for the poles. 
Exodus38:6 He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze. 
Exodus38:7 He inserted the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar, with which to carry it. He made it hollow with planks." 
Exodus38:8 Moreover, he made the laver of bronze with its base of bronze, from the mirrors of the serving women who served at the doorway of the tent of meeting." 
Exodus38:9 Then he made the court: for the south side the hangings of the court were of fine twisted linen, one hundred cubits;" 
Exodus38:10 their twenty pillars, and their twenty bases, made of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver." 
Exodus38:11 For the north side there were one hundred cubits; their twenty pillars and their twenty bases were of bronze, the hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver." 
Exodus38:12 For the west side there were hangings of fifty cubits with their ten pillars and their ten bases; the hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver. 
Exodus38:13 For the east side toward the sunrise fifty cubits. 
Exodus38:14 The hangings for the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and their three bases," 
Exodus38:15 and so for the other side. On both sides of the gate of the court were hangings of fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and their three bases." 
Exodus38:16 All the hangings of the court all around were of fine twisted linen. 
Exodus38:17 The bases for the pillars were of bronze, the hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver; and the overlaying of their tops were of silver, and all the pillars of the court were furnished with silver bands." 
Exodus38:18 The screen of the gate of the court was the work of the weaver, of blue and purple and scarlet material and fine twisted linen. And the length was twenty cubits and the height was five cubits, corresponding to the hangings of the court." 
Exodus38:19 Their four pillars and their four bases were of bronze; their hooks were of silver, and the overlaying of their tops and their bands were of silver." 
Exodus38:20 All the pegs of the tabernacle and of the court all around were of bronze. 
Exodus38:21 These are the things numbered for the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the testimony, as they were numbered according to the command of Moses, for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest." 
Exodus38:22 Now Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus38:23 With him was Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, a craftsman and a skillful designer and a weaver in blue and in purple and in scarlet material and fine linen." 
Exodus38:24 All the gold that was used for the work, in all the work of the sanctuary, even the gold of the wave offering, was 29 talents and 730 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary." 
Exodus38:25 The silver of those of the congregation who were numbered was 100 talents and 1,775 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary;" 
Exodus38:26 a beka a head (that is, half a shekel according to the shekel of the sanctuary), for each one who passed over to those who were numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for 603,550 men." 
Exodus38:27 One hundred talents of silver were for casting the bases of the sanctuary and the bases of the veil; one hundred bases for one hundred talents, a talent for a base." 
Exodus38:28 Of the 1,775 shekels, he made hooks for the pillars and overlaid their tops and made bands for them." 
Exodus38:29 The bronze of the wave offering was 70 talents and 2,400 shekels." 
Exodus38:30 With it he made the bases to the doorway of the tent of meeting, and the bronze altar and its bronze grating, and all the utensils of the altar," 
Exodus38:31 and the bases of the court all around and the bases of the gate of the court, and all the pegs of the tabernacle and all the pegs of the court all around." 
Exodus39:1 Moreover, from the blue and purple and scarlet material, they made finely woven garments for ministering in the holy place as well as the holy garments which were for Aaron, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:2 He made the ephod of gold, and of blue and purple and scarlet material, and fine twisted linen." 
Exodus39:3 Then they hammered out gold sheets and cut them into threads to be woven in with the blue and the purple and the scarlet material and the fine linen, the work of a skillful designer." 
Exodus39:4 They made joining shoulder pieces for the ephod; it was joined at its two upper ends. 
Exodus39:5 The skillfully woven band which was on it was like its workmanship, of the same material: of gold, and of blue and purple and scarlet material, and fine twisted linen, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:6 They made the onyx stones, set all around in filigree settings of gold; they were engraved like the engravings of a signet, according to the names of the sons of Israel." 
Exodus39:7 And he placed them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod, as stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:8 He made the breastpiece, the work of a skillful designer, like the workmanship of the ephod: of gold, and of blue and purple and scarlet material, and fine twisted linen." 
Exodus39:9 It was square; they made the breastpiece, having been folded double, a span long and a span wide when folded double." 
Exodus39:10 And they mounted four rows of stones on it. The first row was a row of ruby, topaz, and emerald;" 
Exodus39:11 and the second row, a turquoise, a sapphire, and a diamond;" 
Exodus39:12 and the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;" 
Exodus39:13 and the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. They were set in their filigree settings with gold filigree." 
Exodus39:14 The stones were corresponding to the names of the sons of Israel; they were twelve, corresponding to their names, engraved with the engravings of a signet, each with its name for the twelve tribes." 
Exodus39:15 They made on the breastpiece chains of a twisted work of cords in pure gold. 
Exodus39:16 They made two gold filigree settings and two gold rings, and put the two rings on the two ends of the breastpiece." 
Exodus39:17 Then they put the two gold cords in the two rings at the ends of the breastpiece. 
Exodus39:18 They put the other two ends of the two cords on the two filigree settings and put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front of it. 
Exodus39:19 They made two gold rings and placed them on the two ends of the breastpiece, on its inner edge which was next to the ephod." 
Exodus39:20 Furthermore, they made two gold rings and placed them on the bottom of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod, on the front of it, close to the place where it joined, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod." 
Exodus39:21 They bound the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a blue cord, so that it would be on the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastpiece would not come loose from the ephod, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:22 Then he made the robe of the ephod of woven work entirely of blue; 
Exodus39:23 and the opening of the robe was at the top in the center, as the opening of a coat of mail, with a binding all around its opening, so that it would not be torn." 
Exodus39:24 They made pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet material and twisted linen on the hem of the robe. 
Exodus39:25 They also made bells of pure gold and put the bells between the pomegranates all around on the hem of the robe," 
Exodus39:26 alternating a bell and a pomegranate all around on the hem of the robe for the ministry, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:27 They made the tunics of finely woven linen for Aaron and his sons," 
Exodus39:28 and the turban of fine linen, and the headdresses of the caps of fine linen, and the linen undergarments of fine twisted linen," 
Exodus39:29 and the sash of fine twisted linen, and blue and purple and scarlet material, the work of the weaver, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:30 They made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold and wrote upon it with engraved writing as found on a signet, “Holy to Yahweh.”" 
Exodus39:31 They fastened a blue cord to it, to fasten it on the turban above, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:32 Thus all the service of constructing the tabernacle of the tent of meeting was completed; and the sons of Israel did according to all that Yahweh had commanded Moses; so they did. 
Exodus39:33 They brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its furnishings: its clasps, its boards, its bars, and its pillars and its bases;" 
Exodus39:34 and the covering of rams’ skins dyed red, and the covering of porpoise skins, and the screening veil;" 
Exodus39:35 the ark of the testimony and its poles and the mercy seat; 
Exodus39:36 the table, all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence;" 
Exodus39:37 the pure gold lampstand, with its arrangement of lamps and all its utensils, and the oil for the light;" 
Exodus39:38 and the gold altar, and the anointing oil and the fragrant incense, and the veil for the doorway of the tent;" 
Exodus39:39 the bronze altar and its bronze grating, its poles and all its utensils, the laver and its stand;" 
Exodus39:40 the hangings for the court, its pillars and its bases, and the screen for the gate of the court, its cords and its pegs, and all the equipment for the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of meeting;" 
Exodus39:41 the woven garments for ministering in the holy place and the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons, to minister as priests." 
Exodus39:42 Thus, according to all that Yahweh had commanded Moses, so the sons of Israel did in all their service." 
Exodus39:43 And Moses saw all the work, and behold, they had done it; just as Yahweh had commanded, so they had done. Then Moses blessed them." 
Exodus40:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Exodus40:2 “On the first day of the first month you shall set up the tabernacle of the tent of meeting. 
Exodus40:3 You shall place the ark of the testimony there, and you shall screen the ark with the veil." 
Exodus40:4 You shall bring in the table and arrange what belongs on it; and you shall bring in the lampstand and mount its lamps. 
Exodus40:5 Moreover, you shall set the gold altar of incense before the ark of the testimony and set up the veil for the doorway to the tabernacle." 
Exodus40:6 You shall set the altar of burnt offering in front of the doorway of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting. 
Exodus40:7 You shall set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it. 
Exodus40:8 You shall set up the court all around and hang up the screen for the gateway of the court. 
Exodus40:9 Then you shall take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it and set it apart as holy and all its furnishings; and it shall be holy. 
Exodus40:10 You shall anoint the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and set the altar apart as holy, and the altar shall be most holy." 
Exodus40:11 You shall anoint the laver and its stand, and set it apart as holy." 
Exodus40:12 Then you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the doorway of the tent of meeting and wash them with water. 
Exodus40:13 You shall put the holy garments on Aaron and anoint him and set him apart as holy, that he may minister as a priest to Me." 
Exodus40:14 You shall bring his sons and put tunics on them; 
Exodus40:15 and you shall anoint them even as you have anointed their father, that they may minister as priests to Me; and their anointing will be for them for a perpetual priesthood throughout their generations.”" 
Exodus40:16 Thus Moses did; according to all that Yahweh had commanded him, so he did." 
Exodus40:17 Now it happened, in the first month of the second year, on the first day of the month, the tabernacle was erected." 
Exodus40:18 Moses erected the tabernacle and laid its bases and set up its boards and inserted its bars and erected its pillars. 
Exodus40:19 He spread the tent over the tabernacle and placed the covering of the tent on top of it, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus40:20 Then he took the testimony and put it into the ark and attached the poles to the ark and put the mercy seat on top of the ark. 
Exodus40:21 He brought the ark into the tabernacle and placed the veil of the screen and screened off the ark of the testimony, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus40:22 Then he put the table in the tent of meeting on the north side of the tabernacle, outside the veil." 
Exodus40:23 He set the arrangement of bread in order on it before Yahweh, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus40:24 Then he placed the lampstand in the tent of meeting, opposite the table, on the south side of the tabernacle." 
Exodus40:25 He lighted the lamps before Yahweh, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus40:26 Then he placed the gold altar in the tent of meeting in front of the veil; 
Exodus40:27 and he burned fragrant incense on it, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus40:28 Then he placed the screen at the doorway of the tabernacle. 
Exodus40:29 He placed the altar of burnt offering before the doorway of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and he offered on it the burnt offering and the meal offering, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus40:30 He placed the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it for washing. 
Exodus40:31 From it Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet. 
Exodus40:32 When they entered the tent of meeting, and when they approached the altar, they washed, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Exodus40:33 He erected the court all around the tabernacle and the altar, and he put up the screen for the gateway of the court. Thus Moses finished the work." 
Exodus40:34 Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of Yahweh filled the tabernacle." 
Exodus40:35 And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had dwelt on it, and the glory of Yahweh filled the tabernacle." 
Exodus40:36 Now throughout all their journeys whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the sons of Israel would set out;" 
Exodus40:37 but if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out until the day when it was taken up." 
Exodus40:38 For throughout all their journeys, the cloud of Yahweh was on the tabernacle by day, and there was fire in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel." 
Leviticus1:1 Then Yahweh called to Moses and spoke to him from the tent of meeting, saying," 
Leviticus1:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When any man from among you brings an offering near to Yahweh, you shall bring your offering of animals from the herd or the flock." 
Leviticus1:3 If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall bring it near, a male without blemish; he shall bring it near to the doorway of the tent of meeting, that he may be accepted before Yahweh." 
Leviticus1:4 And he shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering, that it may be accepted for him to make atonement on his behalf." 
Leviticus1:5 Then he shall slaughter the young bull before Yahweh; and Aaron’s sons the priests shall bring near the blood and splash the blood around on the altar that is at the doorway of the tent of meeting. 
Leviticus1:6 And he shall then skin the burnt offering and cut it into its pieces. 
Leviticus1:7 And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the altar and arrange wood on the fire. 
Leviticus1:8 Then Aaron’s sons the priests shall arrange the pieces, the head, and the suet over the wood which is on the fire that is on the altar." 
Leviticus1:9 Its entrails, however, and its legs he shall wash with water. And the priest shall offer up in smoke all of it on the altar for a burnt offering, an offering by fire of a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Leviticus1:10 ‘But if his offering is from the flock, of the sheep or of the goats, for a burnt offering, he shall bring near a male without blemish." 
Leviticus1:11 And he shall slaughter it on the side of the altar northward before Yahweh, and Aaron’s sons the priests shall splash its blood around on the altar." 
Leviticus1:12 He shall then cut it into its pieces with its head and its suet, and the priest shall arrange them on the wood which is on the fire that is on the altar." 
Leviticus1:13 The entrails, however, and the legs he shall wash with water. And the priest shall bring all of it near and offer it up in smoke on the altar; it is a burnt offering, an offering by fire of a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Leviticus1:14 ‘But if his offering to Yahweh is a burnt offering of birds, then he shall bring near his offering from the turtledoves or from young pigeons." 
Leviticus1:15 And the priest shall bring it near to the altar and wring off its head and offer it up in smoke on the altar; and its blood is to be drained out on the side of the altar. 
Leviticus1:16 He shall also take away its crop with its feathers and cast it beside the altar eastward, to the place of the ashes." 
Leviticus1:17 Then he shall tear it by its wings, but he shall not separate it. And the priest shall offer it up in smoke on the altar on the wood which is on the fire; it is a burnt offering, an offering by fire of a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Leviticus2:1 ‘Now when anyone brings near a grain offering as an offering to Yahweh, his offering shall be of fine flour, and he shall pour oil on it and put frankincense on it." 
Leviticus2:2 He shall then bring it to Aaron’s sons the priests; and he shall take from it his handful of its fine flour and of its oil with all of its frankincense. And the priest shall offer it up in smoke as its memorial portion on the altar, an offering by fire of a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Leviticus2:3 And the remainder of the grain offering belongs to Aaron and his sons: a thing most holy of the offerings to Yahweh by fire. 
Leviticus2:4 ‘Now when you bring near an offering of a grain offering baked in an oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil or unleavened wafers spread with oil." 
Leviticus2:5 And if your offering is a grain offering made on the griddle, it shall be of fine flour, unleavened, mixed with oil;" 
Leviticus2:6 you shall break it into bits and pour oil on it; it is a grain offering. 
Leviticus2:7 Now if your offering is a grain offering made in a pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil." 
Leviticus2:8 And you will bring in the grain offering which is made of these things to Yahweh, and it shall be brought near to the priest, and he shall bring it to the altar." 
Leviticus2:9 The priest then shall raise up from the grain offering its memorial portion, and he shall offer it up in smoke on the altar as an offering by fire of a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Leviticus2:10 And the remainder of the grain offering belongs to Aaron and his sons: a thing most holy of the offerings to Yahweh by fire. 
Leviticus2:11 ‘No grain offering, which you bring near to Yahweh, shall be made with leaven, for you shall not offer up in smoke any leaven or any honey as an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Leviticus2:12 As an offering of first fruits you shall bring them near to Yahweh, but they shall not ascend for a soothing aroma on the altar." 
Leviticus2:13 Every grain offering of yours, moreover, you shall season with salt, so that the salt of the covenant of your God shall not be lacking from your grain offering; with all your offerings you shall bring salt near." 
Leviticus2:14 ‘Also if you bring near a grain offering of early ripened things to Yahweh, you shall bring near fresh heads of grain roasted in the fire, grits of new growth, for the grain offering of your early ripened things." 
Leviticus2:15 You shall then put oil on it and place frankincense on it; it is a grain offering. 
Leviticus2:16 And the priest shall offer up in smoke its memorial portion, part of its grits and its oil with all its frankincense as an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Leviticus3:1 ‘Now if his offering is a sacrifice of peace offerings, if he is going to bring near one from the herd, whether male or female, he shall bring it near without blemish before Yahweh." 
Leviticus3:2 Then he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and slaughter it at the doorway of the tent of meeting, and Aaron’s sons the priests shall splash the blood around on the altar." 
Leviticus3:3 From the sacrifice of the peace offerings he shall bring an offering by fire near to Yahweh, the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails," 
Leviticus3:4 and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the lobe of the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys." 
Leviticus3:5 Then Aaron’s sons shall offer it up in smoke on the altar on the burnt offering, which is on the wood that is on the fire; it is an offering by fire of a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Leviticus3:6 But if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offerings to Yahweh is from the flock, he shall bring it near, male or female, without blemish." 
Leviticus3:7 If he is going to bring near a lamb for his offering, then he shall bring it near before Yahweh," 
Leviticus3:8 and he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and slaughter it before the tent of meeting, and Aaron’s sons shall splash its blood around on the altar." 
Leviticus3:9 And from the sacrifice of peace offerings he shall bring near as an offering by fire to Yahweh its fat, the entire fat tail which he shall remove close to the backbone, and the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails," 
Leviticus3:10 and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the lobe of the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys." 
Leviticus3:11 Then the priest shall offer it up in smoke on the altar as food, an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Leviticus3:12 ‘Moreover, if his offering is a goat, then he shall bring it near before Yahweh," 
Leviticus3:13 and he shall lay his hand on its head and slaughter it before the tent of meeting, and the sons of Aaron shall splash its blood around on the altar." 
Leviticus3:14 And from it he shall bring near his offering as an offering by fire to Yahweh the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails," 
Leviticus3:15 and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the lobe of the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys." 
Leviticus3:16 And the priest shall offer them up in smoke on the altar as food, an offering by fire for a soothing aroma; all fat is Yahweh’s." 
Leviticus3:17 It is a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your places of habitation: you shall not eat any fat or any blood.’” 
Leviticus4:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus4:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘If a person sins unintentionally in any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and he does any one of them," 
Leviticus4:3 if the anointed priest sins so as to bring guilt on the people, then let him bring near to Yahweh a bull from the herd without blemish as a sin offering for the sin he has committed." 
Leviticus4:4 Then he shall bring the bull to the doorway of the tent of meeting before Yahweh, and he shall lay his hand on the head of the bull and slaughter the bull before Yahweh." 
Leviticus4:5 Then the anointed priest shall take some of the blood of the bull and bring it to the tent of meeting," 
Leviticus4:6 and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle some of the blood seven times before Yahweh in front of the veil of the sanctuary. 
Leviticus4:7 The priest shall also put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of fragrant incense which is before Yahweh in the tent of meeting; and all the blood of the bull he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering which is at the doorway of the tent of meeting. 
Leviticus4:8 Then he shall raise up from it all the fat of the bull of the sin offering: the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat which is on the entrails," 
Leviticus4:9 and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the lobe of the liver, which he shall remove with the kidneys" 
Leviticus4:10 (just as it is raised up from the ox of the sacrifice of peace offerings), and the priest shall offer them up in smoke on the altar of burnt offering." 
Leviticus4:11 But the hide of the bull and all its flesh with its head and its legs and its entrails and its refuse," 
Leviticus4:12 that is, all the rest of the bull, he shall bring out to a clean place outside the camp where the ashes are poured out, and he shall burn it on wood with fire; where the ashes are poured out it shall be burned." 
Leviticus4:13 ‘Now if the whole congregation of Israel commits error, and the matter is hidden from the sight of the assembly, and they commit any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and they become guilty;" 
Leviticus4:14 when the sin which they have committed becomes known, then the assembly shall bring near a bull from the herd for a sin offering and bring it before the tent of meeting." 
Leviticus4:15 Then the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before Yahweh, and the bull shall be slaughtered before Yahweh." 
Leviticus4:16 Then the anointed priest shall bring some of the blood of the bull to the tent of meeting; 
Leviticus4:17 and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle it seven times before Yahweh in front of the veil. 
Leviticus4:18 And he shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar which is before Yahweh in the tent of meeting; and all the blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering which is at the doorway of the tent of meeting. 
Leviticus4:19 He shall then raise up all its fat from it and offer it up in smoke on the altar. 
Leviticus4:20 He shall also do with the bull just as he did with the bull of the sin offering; thus he shall do with it. So the priest shall make atonement for them, and they will be forgiven." 
Leviticus4:21 Then he shall bring out the bull to a place outside the camp and burn it as he burned the first bull; it is the sin offering for the assembly. 
Leviticus4:22 ‘When a leader sins and unintentionally does any one of all the things which Yahweh his God has commanded not to be done, and he becomes guilty," 
Leviticus4:23 or if his sin which he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring for his offering a goat, a male without blemish." 
Leviticus4:24 Then he shall lay his hand on the head of the male goat and slaughter it in the place where they slaughter the burnt offering before Yahweh; it is a sin offering. 
Leviticus4:25 Then the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering. 
Leviticus4:26 And all its fat he shall offer up in smoke on the altar as in the case of the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings. Thus the priest shall make atonement for him in regard to his sin, and he will be forgiven." 
Leviticus4:27 ‘Now if anyone of the common people sins unintentionally in doing any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and becomes guilty," 
Leviticus4:28 or if his sin which he has committed is made known to him, then he shall bring for his offering a goat, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has committed." 
Leviticus4:29 And he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and slaughter the sin offering at the place of the burnt offering. 
Leviticus4:30 And the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and all the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar. 
Leviticus4:31 Then he shall remove all its fat, just as the fat was removed from the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall offer it up in smoke on the altar for a soothing aroma to Yahweh. Thus the priest shall make atonement for him, and he will be forgiven." 
Leviticus4:32 ‘But if he brings a lamb as his offering for a sin offering, he shall bring it, a female without blemish." 
Leviticus4:33 And he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and slaughter it for a sin offering in the place where they slay the burnt offering. 
Leviticus4:34 And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and all the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar." 
Leviticus4:35 Then he shall remove all its fat, just as the fat of the lamb is removed from the sacrifice of the peace offerings, and the priest shall offer them up in smoke on the altar, on the offerings by fire to Yahweh. Thus the priest shall make atonement for him in regard to his sin which he has committed, and he will be forgiven." 
Leviticus5:1 ‘Now if a person sins after he hears a public oath to testify when he is a witness, whether he has seen or otherwise known, if he does not tell it, then he will bear his guilt." 
Leviticus5:2 Or a person who touches any unclean thing, whether a carcass of an unclean beast or the carcass of unclean cattle or a carcass of unclean swarming things—though it is hidden from him, yet he is unclean—will be guilty." 
Leviticus5:3 Or if he touches human uncleanness, of whatever sort his uncleanness may be with which he becomes unclean, and it is hidden from him, and then he comes to know it, he will be guilty." 
Leviticus5:4 Or if a person swears thoughtlessly with his lips to do evil or to do good, in whatever matter a man may speak thoughtlessly with a sworn oath, and it is hidden from him, and then he comes to know it, he will be guilty in one of these." 
Leviticus5:5 So it shall be, when he becomes guilty in one of these, that he shall confess that in which he has sinned." 
Leviticus5:6 He shall also bring his guilt offering to Yahweh for his sin which he has committed, a female from the flock, a lamb or a goat, as a sin offering. So the priest shall make atonement on his behalf for his sin." 
Leviticus5:7 ‘But if he cannot afford a lamb, then he shall bring to Yahweh his guilt offering for that in which he has sinned, two turtledoves or two young pigeons, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering." 
Leviticus5:8 And he shall bring them to the priest, who shall bring near first that which is for the sin offering and shall nip its head at the front of its neck, but he shall not separate it." 
Leviticus5:9 He shall also sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering on the side of the altar, while the rest of the blood shall be drained out at the base of the altar: it is a sin offering." 
Leviticus5:10 The second he shall then prepare as a burnt offering according to the legal judgment. So the priest shall make atonement on his behalf for his sin which he has committed, and it will be forgiven him." 
Leviticus5:11 ‘But if his means are insufficient for two turtledoves or two young pigeons, then for his offering for that which he has sinned, he shall bring the tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; he shall not place oil on it or put frankincense on it, for it is a sin offering." 
Leviticus5:12 He shall then bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take his handful of it as its memorial portion and offer it up in smoke on the altar, with the offerings of Yahweh by fire: it is a sin offering." 
Leviticus5:13 So the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin which he has committed from one of these, and it will be forgiven him; then the rest shall become the priest’s, like the grain offering.’”" 
Leviticus5:14 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus5:15 “If a person acts unfaithfully and sins unintentionally against the holy things of Yahweh, then he shall bring his guilt offering to Yahweh: a ram without blemish from the flock, according to your valuation in silver by shekels, in terms of the shekel of the sanctuary, for a guilt offering." 
Leviticus5:16 And he shall make restitution for that which he has sinned against the holy thing, and he shall add to it a fifth part of it and give it to the priest. The priest shall then make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering, and it will be forgiven him." 
Leviticus5:17 “Now if a person sins and does any one of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, but he was unaware, still he is guilty and shall bear his punishment." 
Leviticus5:18 He is then to bring to the priest a ram without blemish from the flock, according to your valuation, for a guilt offering. So the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his error in which he sinned unintentionally and did not know it, and it will be forgiven him." 
Leviticus5:19 It is a guilt offering; he was certainly guilty before Yahweh.” 
Leviticus6:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus6:2 “If a person sins and acts unfaithfully against Yahweh and deals falsely with his companion in regard to a deposit or a security entrusted to him or through robbery, or if he has extorted from his companion," 
Leviticus6:3 or has found what was lost and dealt falsely about it and sworn falsely, so that he sins in regard to any one of the things a man may do;" 
Leviticus6:4 then it shall be, when he sins and becomes guilty, that he shall return what he took by robbery or what he got by extortion, or the deposit which was entrusted to him or the lost thing which he found," 
Leviticus6:5 or anything about which he swore falsely; he shall make restitution for it in full and add to it one-fifth more. He shall give it to the one to whom it belongs on the day he presents his guilt offering. 
Leviticus6:6 Then he shall bring to the priest his guilt offering to Yahweh, a ram without blemish from the flock, according to your valuation, for a guilt offering," 
Leviticus6:7 and the priest shall make atonement for him before Yahweh, and he will be forgiven for any one of the things which he may have done to incur guilt.”" 
Leviticus6:8 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus6:9 “Command Aaron and his sons, saying, ‘This is the law for the burnt offering: the burnt offering itself shall remain on the hearth on the altar all night until the morning, and the fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it." 
Leviticus6:10 And the priest shall put on his linen robe, and he shall put on undergarments next to his flesh; and he shall raise up the ashes to which the fire reduces the burnt offering on the altar and place them beside the altar." 
Leviticus6:11 Then he shall take off his garments and put on other garments and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place. 
Leviticus6:12 And the fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it. It shall not go out, but the priest shall burn wood on it every morning; and he shall lay out the burnt offering on it and offer up in smoke the fat portions of the peace offerings on it." 
Leviticus6:13 Fire shall be kept burning continually on the altar; it shall not go out. 
Leviticus6:14 ‘Now this is the law of the grain offering: the sons of Aaron shall bring it near before Yahweh in front of the altar. 
Leviticus6:15 Then one of them shall raise up from it a handful of the fine flour of the grain offering, with its oil and all the frankincense that is on the grain offering, and he shall offer it up in smoke on the altar, a soothing aroma, as its memorial offering to Yahweh." 
Leviticus6:16 What is left of it Aaron and his sons shall eat. It shall be eaten as unleavened cakes in a holy place; they shall eat it in the court of the tent of meeting. 
Leviticus6:17 It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their share from My offerings by fire; it is most holy, like the sin offering and the guilt offering." 
Leviticus6:18 Every male among the sons of Aaron may eat it; it is a perpetual statute throughout your generations, from the offerings by fire to Yahweh. Whoever touches them will be set apart as holy.’”" 
Leviticus6:19 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus6:20 “This is the offering which Aaron and his sons shall bring near to Yahweh on the day when he is anointed; the tenth of an ephah of fine flour as a regular grain offering, half of it in the morning and half of it in the evening." 
Leviticus6:21 It shall be prepared with oil on a griddle. When it is well stirred, you shall bring it. You shall bring near the grain offering in baked pieces as a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Leviticus6:22 And the anointed priest, who will be in his place among his sons, shall offer it. By a perpetual statute it shall be entirely offered up in smoke to Yahweh." 
Leviticus6:23 So every grain offering of the priest shall be burned entirely. It shall not be eaten.” 
Leviticus6:24 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus6:25 “Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, ‘This is the law of the sin offering: in the place where the burnt offering is slaughtered, the sin offering shall be slaughtered before Yahweh; it is most holy." 
Leviticus6:26 The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. It shall be eaten in a holy place, in the court of the tent of meeting." 
Leviticus6:27 Anyone who touches its flesh will be set apart as holy; and when any of its blood sprinkles on a garment, in a holy place you shall wash what was sprinkled on." 
Leviticus6:28 Also the earthenware vessel in which it was boiled shall be broken; and if it was boiled in a bronze vessel, then it shall be scoured and rinsed in water." 
Leviticus6:29 And every male among the priests may eat of it; it is most holy. 
Leviticus6:30 But no sin offering, of which any of the blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the holy place, shall be eaten; it shall be burned with fire." 
Leviticus7:1 ‘Now this is the law of the guilt offering; it is most holy. 
Leviticus7:2 In the place where they slaughter the burnt offering they are to slaughter the guilt offering, and he shall splash its blood around on the altar." 
Leviticus7:3 Then he shall bring near from it all its fat: the fat tail and the fat that covers the entrails," 
Leviticus7:4 and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the lobe on the liver he shall remove with the kidneys." 
Leviticus7:5 And the priest shall offer them up in smoke on the altar as an offering by fire to Yahweh; it is a guilt offering. 
Leviticus7:6 Every male among the priests may eat of it. It shall be eaten in a holy place; it is most holy. 
Leviticus7:7 The guilt offering is like the sin offering, there is one law for them; the priest who makes atonement with it shall have it." 
Leviticus7:8 Also the priest who brings near any man’s burnt offering, that priest shall have for himself the skin of the burnt offering which he has brought near." 
Leviticus7:9 Likewise, every grain offering that is baked in the oven and everything prepared in a pan or on a griddle shall belong to the priest who brings it near." 
Leviticus7:10 And every grain offering, mixed with oil or dry, shall belong to all the sons of Aaron, to all alike." 
Leviticus7:11 ‘Now this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings which shall be brought near to Yahweh. 
Leviticus7:12 If he brings it near for thanksgiving, then along with the sacrifice of thanksgiving he shall bring near unleavened cakes mixed with oil and unleavened wafers spread with oil and cakes of well stirred fine flour mixed with oil." 
Leviticus7:13 With the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving, he shall bring near his offering with cakes of leavened bread." 
Leviticus7:14 Of this he shall bring near, one of every offering as a contribution to Yahweh; it shall belong to the priest who splashes the blood of the peace offerings." 
Leviticus7:15 ‘Now as for the flesh of the sacrifice of his thanksgiving peace offerings, it shall be eaten on the day of his offering; he shall not leave any of it over until morning." 
Leviticus7:16 But if the sacrifice of his offering is a votive or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day that he brings near his sacrifice, and on the next day what is left of it may be eaten;" 
Leviticus7:17 but what is left over from the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned with fire. 
Leviticus7:18 So if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings should ever be eaten on the third day, he who brings it near will not be accepted, and it will not be counted to his benefit. It shall be an offensive thing, and the person who eats of it will bear his own iniquity." 
Leviticus7:19 ‘Also the flesh that touches anything unclean shall not be eaten; it shall be burned with fire. As for other flesh, anyone who is clean may eat such flesh." 
Leviticus7:20 But the person who eats the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings which belong to Yahweh, in his uncleanness, that person shall be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus7:21 When anyone touches anything unclean, whether human uncleanness or an unclean animal or any unclean detestable thing, and eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings which belong to Yahweh, that person shall be cut off from his people.’”" 
Leviticus7:22 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus7:23 “Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘You shall not eat any fat from an ox, a sheep, or a goat." 
Leviticus7:24 Also the fat of an animal which dies and the fat of an animal torn by beasts may be put to any other use, but you must certainly not eat it." 
Leviticus7:25 For whoever eats the fat of the animal from which an offering by fire is brought near to Yahweh, even the person who eats shall be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus7:26 And you shall not eat any blood, either of bird or animal, in any of your places of habitation." 
Leviticus7:27 Any person who eats any blood, even that person shall be cut off from his people.’”" 
Leviticus7:28 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus7:29 “Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘He who brings the sacrifice of his peace offerings near to Yahweh shall bring his offering to Yahweh from the sacrifice of his peace offerings." 
Leviticus7:30 His own hands are to bring offerings by fire to Yahweh. He shall bring the fat with the breast, that the breast may be waved as a wave offering before Yahweh." 
Leviticus7:31 And the priest shall offer up the fat in smoke on the altar, but the breast shall belong to Aaron and his sons." 
Leviticus7:32 And you shall give the right thigh to the priest as a contribution from the sacrifices of your peace offerings. 
Leviticus7:33 The one among the sons of Aaron who brings near the blood of the peace offerings and the fat, the right thigh shall be his as his portion." 
Leviticus7:34 For I have taken the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the contribution from the sons of Israel from the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and I have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons as a perpetual statute taken from the sons of Israel." 
Leviticus7:35 ‘This is the share for Aaron and the share for his sons from the offerings by fire to Yahweh, in that day when he brought them near to minister as priests to Yahweh." 
Leviticus7:36 These Yahweh had commanded to be given them from the sons of Israel in the day that He anointed them. It is a perpetual statute throughout their generations.’” 
Leviticus7:37 This is the law of the burnt offering, the grain offering and the sin offering and the guilt offering and the ordination offering and the sacrifice of peace offerings," 
Leviticus7:38 which Yahweh commanded Moses at Mount Sinai in the day that He commanded the sons of Israel to bring their offerings near to Yahweh in the wilderness of Sinai. 
Leviticus8:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus8:2 “Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments and the anointing oil and the bull of the sin offering and the two rams and the basket of unleavened bread," 
Leviticus8:3 and assemble all the congregation at the doorway of the tent of meeting.” 
Leviticus8:4 So Moses did just as Yahweh commanded him. Then the congregation was assembled at the doorway of the tent of meeting," 
Leviticus8:5 and Moses said to the congregation, “This is the thing which Yahweh has commanded to do.”" 
Leviticus8:6 Then Moses had Aaron and his sons come near and washed them with water. 
Leviticus8:7 And he put the tunic on him and girded him with the sash and clothed him with the robe and put the ephod on him; and he girded him with the skillfully woven band of the ephod, with which he tied it to him." 
Leviticus8:8 He then placed the breastpiece on him, and in the breastpiece he put the Urim and the Thummim." 
Leviticus8:9 He also placed the turban on his head, and on the turban, at its front, he placed the golden plate, the holy crown, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Leviticus8:10 Moses then took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it and set them apart as holy. 
Leviticus8:11 And he sprinkled some of it on the altar seven times and anointed the altar and all its utensils and the laver and its stand, to set them apart as holy." 
Leviticus8:12 Then he poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron’s head and anointed him, to set him apart as holy." 
Leviticus8:13 Next Moses brought Aaron’s sons near and clothed them with tunics and girded them with sashes and bound caps on them, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Leviticus8:14 Then he brought the bull of the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering." 
Leviticus8:15 Next Moses slaughtered it and took the blood and with his finger put some of it around on the horns of the altar and purified the altar. Then he poured out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar and set it apart as holy, to make atonement for it." 
Leviticus8:16 He also took all the fat that was on the entrails, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys and their fat; and Moses offered it up in smoke on the altar." 
Leviticus8:17 But the bull and its hide and its flesh and its refuse he burned in the fire outside the camp, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Leviticus8:18 Then he brought near the ram of the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram." 
Leviticus8:19 Then Moses slaughtered it and splashed the blood around on the altar. 
Leviticus8:20 And he cut the ram into its pieces. Then Moses offered up the head and the pieces and the suet in smoke. 
Leviticus8:21 And he washed the entrails and the legs with water. Then Moses offered up the whole ram in smoke on the altar. It was a burnt offering for a soothing aroma; it was an offering by fire to Yahweh, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Leviticus8:22 Then he brought near the second ram, the ram of ordination, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram." 
Leviticus8:23 And Moses slaughtered it and took some of its blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron’s right ear and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot. 
Leviticus8:24 He also brought Aaron’s sons near; and Moses put some of the blood on the lobe of their right ear and on the thumb of their right hand and on the big toe of their right foot. Moses then splashed the rest of the blood around on the altar. 
Leviticus8:25 And he took the fat, and the fat tail, and all the fat that was on the entrails, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys and their fat, and the right thigh." 
Leviticus8:26 From the basket of unleavened bread that was before Yahweh, he took one unleavened cake and one cake of bread mixed with oil and one wafer, and he placed them on the portions of fat and on the right thigh." 
Leviticus8:27 He then put all these on the hands of Aaron and on the hands of his sons, and waved them as a wave offering before Yahweh." 
Leviticus8:28 Then Moses took them from their hands and offered them up in smoke on the altar with the burnt offering. They were an ordination offering for a soothing aroma; it was an offering by fire to Yahweh. 
Leviticus8:29 Moses also took the breast and waved it as a wave offering before Yahweh; it was Moses’ portion of the ram of ordination, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Leviticus8:30 So Moses took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood which was on the altar and sprinkled it on Aaron, on his garments, on his sons, and on the garments of his sons with him; and he set Aaron apart as holy, his garments and his sons and the garments of his sons with him." 
Leviticus8:31 Then Moses said to Aaron and to his sons, “Boil the flesh at the doorway of the tent of meeting, and eat it there together with the bread which is in the basket of the ordination offering, just as I commanded, saying, ‘Aaron and his sons shall eat it.’" 
Leviticus8:32 And the remainder of the flesh and of the bread you shall burn in the fire. 
Leviticus8:33 And you shall not go outside the doorway of the tent of meeting for seven days, until the day that the period of your ordination is fulfilled; for he will ordain you through seven days." 
Leviticus8:34 Yahweh has commanded to do as has been done this day, to make atonement on your behalf." 
Leviticus8:35 At the doorway of the tent of meeting, moreover, you shall remain day and night for seven days and keep the charge of Yahweh, so that you will not die, for so I have been commanded.”" 
Leviticus8:36 Thus Aaron and his sons did all the things which Yahweh had commanded through Moses. 
Leviticus9:1 Now it happened on the eighth day that Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel; 
Leviticus9:2 and he said to Aaron, “Take for yourself a calf, a bull, for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, both without blemish, and bring them near before Yahweh." 
Leviticus9:3 Then to the sons of Israel you shall speak, saying, ‘Take a male goat for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb, both one year old, without blemish, for a burnt offering," 
Leviticus9:4 and an ox and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before Yahweh, and a grain offering mixed with oil; for today Yahweh will appear to you.’”" 
Leviticus9:5 So they took what Moses had commanded to the front of the tent of meeting, and the whole congregation came near and stood before Yahweh." 
Leviticus9:6 And Moses said, “This is the thing which Yahweh has commanded you to do, that the glory of Yahweh may appear to you.”" 
Leviticus9:7 Moses then said to Aaron, “Come near to the altar and offer your sin offering and your burnt offering, that you may make atonement for yourself and for the people; then offer the offering for the people, that you may make atonement for them, just as Yahweh has commanded.”" 
Leviticus9:8 So Aaron came near to the altar and slaughtered the calf of the sin offering which was for himself. 
Leviticus9:9 Then Aaron’s sons brought the blood near to him; and he dipped his finger in the blood and put some on the horns of the altar and poured out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar. 
Leviticus9:10 The fat and the kidneys and the lobe of the liver of the sin offering he then offered up in smoke on the altar just as Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
Leviticus9:11 The flesh and the skin, however, he burned with fire outside the camp." 
Leviticus9:12 Then he slaughtered the burnt offering; and Aaron’s sons handed the blood to him, and he splashed it around on the altar." 
Leviticus9:13 And they handed the burnt offering to him in pieces, with the head, and he offered them up in smoke on the altar." 
Leviticus9:14 He also washed the entrails and the legs and offered them up in smoke with the burnt offering on the altar. 
Leviticus9:15 Then he brought near the people’s offering and took the goat of the sin offering which was for the people and slaughtered it and offered it for sin, like the first." 
Leviticus9:16 He also brought near the burnt offering and offered it according to the legal judgment. 
Leviticus9:17 Next he brought near the grain offering and filled his hand with some of it and offered it up in smoke on the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning." 
Leviticus9:18 Then he slaughtered the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings which was for the people; and Aaron’s sons handed the blood to him, and he splashed it around on the altar." 
Leviticus9:19 As for the portions of fat from the ox and from the ram, the fat tail and the fat covering and the kidneys and the lobe of the liver," 
Leviticus9:20 they now placed the portions of fat on the breasts; and he offered them up in smoke on the altar. 
Leviticus9:21 But the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved as a wave offering before Yahweh, just as Moses had commanded." 
Leviticus9:22 Then Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people and blessed them, and he stepped down after offering the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace offerings." 
Leviticus9:23 And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting. Then they came out and blessed the people. And the glory of Yahweh appeared to all the people. 
Leviticus9:24 Then fire came out from before Yahweh and consumed the burnt offering and the portions of fat on the altar. And all the people saw it and shouted and fell on their faces. 
Leviticus10:1 Then Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took their respective firepans and put fire in them. Then they placed incense on it and offered strange fire before Yahweh, which He had not commanded them." 
Leviticus10:2 And fire came out from the presence of Yahweh and consumed them, and they died before Yahweh." 
Leviticus10:3 Then Moses said to Aaron, “It is what Yahweh spoke, saying, ‘By those who come near Me I will be treated as holy, And before all the people I will be glorified.’” So Aaron kept silent." 
Leviticus10:4 Then Moses called to Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Aaron’s uncle Uzziel, and said to them, “Come near, carry your relatives away from the front of the sanctuary to the outside of the camp.”" 
Leviticus10:5 So they came near and carried them still in their tunics to the outside of the camp, as Moses had said." 
Leviticus10:6 Then Moses said to Aaron and to his sons Eleazar and Ithamar, “Do not uncover your heads nor tear your clothes, so that you will not die and that He will not become wrathful against all the congregation. But your relatives, the whole house of Israel, shall weep over the burning which Yahweh has brought about." 
Leviticus10:7 You shall not even go out from the doorway of the tent of meeting, lest you die; for the anointing oil of Yahweh is upon you.” So they did according to the word of Moses." 
Leviticus10:8 Yahweh then spoke to Aaron, saying," 
Leviticus10:9 “Do not drink wine or strong drink, neither you nor your sons with you, when you come into the tent of meeting, so that you will not die—it is a perpetual statute throughout your generations—" 
Leviticus10:10 and so as to separate between the holy and the profane, and between the unclean and the clean," 
Leviticus10:11 and so as to instruct the sons of Israel in all the statutes which Yahweh has spoken to them through Moses.” 
Leviticus10:12 Then Moses spoke to Aaron and to his remaining sons, Eleazar and Ithamar, “Take the remaining grain offering from the offerings to Yahweh by fire and eat it unleavened beside the altar, for it is most holy." 
Leviticus10:13 And you shall eat it in a holy place because it is a statute for you and a statute for your sons taken out of the offerings of Yahweh by fire; for thus I have been commanded. 
Leviticus10:14 The breast of the wave offering, however, and the thigh of the contribution offering you may eat in a clean place, you and your sons and your daughters with you; for they have been given as a statute for you and a statute for your sons taken out of the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the sons of Israel." 
Leviticus10:15 The thigh contributed by raising up and the breast offered by waving they shall bring along with the offerings by fire of the portions of fat, to wave as a wave offering before Yahweh; so it shall be a perpetual statute for you and your sons with you, just as Yahweh has commanded.”" 
Leviticus10:16 But Moses searched carefully for the goat of the sin offering, and behold, it had been burned up! So he was angry with Aaron’s remaining sons Eleazar and Ithamar, saying," 
Leviticus10:17 “Why did you not eat the sin offering at the holy place? For it is most holy, and He gave it to you to bear away the guilt of the congregation, to make atonement for them before Yahweh." 
Leviticus10:18 Behold, since its blood had not been brought inside, into the sanctuary, you should certainly have eaten it in the sanctuary, just as I commanded.”" 
Leviticus10:19 But Aaron spoke to Moses, “Behold, this very day they brought near their sin offering and their burnt offering before Yahweh. Then things like these happened to me. So if I had eaten a sin offering today, would it have been good in the sight of Yahweh?”" 
Leviticus10:20 So Moses heard this, and it was good in his sight." 
Leviticus11:1 Yahweh spoke again to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them," 
Leviticus11:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘These are the creatures which you may eat from all the animals that are on the earth." 
Leviticus11:3 Whatever divides a hoof, thus making split hoofs, and chews the cud, among the animals, that you may eat." 
Leviticus11:4 Nevertheless, you shall not eat of these, among those which chew the cud or among those which divide the hoof: the camel, for though it chews cud, it does not divide the hoof; it is unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:5 Likewise, the shaphan, for though it chews cud, it does not divide the hoof; it is unclean to you;" 
Leviticus11:6 the rabbit also, for though it chews cud, it does not divide the hoof; it is unclean to you;" 
Leviticus11:7 and the pig, for though it divides the hoof, thus making a split hoof, it does not chew cud; it is unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:8 You shall not eat of their flesh, and you shall not touch their carcasses; they are unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:9 ‘These you may eat, whatever is in the water: all that have fins and scales, those in the water, in the seas, or in the rivers, you may eat." 
Leviticus11:10 But whatever is in the seas and in the rivers that does not have fins and scales among all the swarming life of the water, and among all the living creatures that are in the water, they are detestable things to you," 
Leviticus11:11 and they shall be detestable to you; you may not eat of their flesh, and their carcasses you shall detest." 
Leviticus11:12 Whatever in the water does not have fins and scales is detestable to you. 
Leviticus11:13 ‘These, moreover, you shall detest among the birds; they shall not be eaten; they are detestable: the eagle and the vulture and the buzzard," 
Leviticus11:14 and the kite and the falcon in its kind," 
Leviticus11:15 every raven in its kind," 
Leviticus11:16 and the ostrich and the owl and the gull and the hawk in its kind," 
Leviticus11:17 and the little owl and the cormorant and the great owl," 
Leviticus11:18 and the white owl and the pelican and the carrion vulture," 
Leviticus11:19 and the stork, the heron in its kinds, and the hoopoe, and the bat." 
Leviticus11:20 ‘All the swarming things that fly and that walk on all fours are detestable to you. 
Leviticus11:21 Yet these you may eat among all the swarming things that fly and that walk on all fours: those which have above their feet jointed legs with which to jump on the earth. 
Leviticus11:22 These of them you may eat: the locust in its kinds and the devastating locust in its kinds and the cricket in its kinds and the grasshopper in its kinds. 
Leviticus11:23 But all other swarming things that fly and that are four-footed are detestable to you. 
Leviticus11:24 ‘By these, moreover, you will be made unclean: whoever touches their carcasses becomes unclean until evening," 
Leviticus11:25 and whoever picks up any of their carcasses shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus11:26 Concerning all the animals which divide the hoof but do not make a split hoof or which do not chew cud, they are unclean to you: whoever touches them becomes unclean." 
Leviticus11:27 Also whatever walks on its paws, among all the creatures that walk on all fours, are unclean to you; whoever touches their carcasses becomes unclean until evening," 
Leviticus11:28 and the one who picks up their carcasses shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening; they are unclean to you. 
Leviticus11:29 ‘Now these are to you the unclean among the swarming things which swarm on the earth: the mole and the mouse and the great lizard in its kinds," 
Leviticus11:30 and the gecko and the crocodile and the lizard and the sand reptile and the chameleon. 
Leviticus11:31 These are to you the unclean among all the swarming things; whoever touches them when they are dead becomes unclean until evening. 
Leviticus11:32 Also anything on which one of them may fall when they are dead becomes unclean, including any wooden article or clothing or a skin or a sack—any article by which work is done—it shall be put in the water and be unclean until evening, then it becomes clean." 
Leviticus11:33 As for any earthenware vessel into which one of them may fall, whatever is in it becomes unclean, and you shall break the vessel." 
Leviticus11:34 Any of the food which may be eaten, on which water comes, shall become unclean, and any liquid which may be drunk in every vessel shall become unclean." 
Leviticus11:35 Everything, moreover, on which part of their carcass may fall becomes unclean; an oven or a stove shall be smashed; they are unclean and shall continue as unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:36 Nevertheless a spring or a cistern collecting water shall be clean, though the one who touches their carcass shall be unclean." 
Leviticus11:37 And if a part of their carcass falls on any seed for sowing which is to be sown, it is clean." 
Leviticus11:38 Though if water is put on the seed and a part of their carcass falls on it, it is unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:39 ‘Also if one of the animals dies which you have for food, the one who touches its carcass becomes unclean until evening." 
Leviticus11:40 He too, who eats some of its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening, and the one who picks up its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus11:41 ‘Now every swarming thing that swarms on the earth is detestable; it shall not be eaten. 
Leviticus11:42 Whatever goes on its belly, and whatever goes on all fours, whatever has many feet, in respect to every swarming thing that swarms on the earth, you shall not eat them, for they are detestable." 
Leviticus11:43 Do not render yourselves detestable through any of the swarming things that swarm; and you shall not make yourselves unclean with them so that you become unclean. 
Leviticus11:44 For I am Yahweh your God. Therefore, set yourselves apart as holy and be holy, for I am holy. And you shall not make yourselves unclean with any of the swarming things that move on the earth." 
Leviticus11:45 For I am Yahweh who brought you up from the land of Egypt to be your God; thus you shall be holy, for I am holy.’”" 
Leviticus11:46 This is the law regarding the animal and the bird and every living thing that moves in the waters and everything that swarms on the earth," 
Leviticus11:47 to separate between the unclean and the clean, and between the edible creature and the creature which is not to be eaten." 
Leviticus12:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus12:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel, saying: ‘When a woman gives birth and bears a male child, then she shall be unclean for seven days, as in the days of her menstruation she shall be unclean." 
Leviticus12:3 Now on the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised. 
Leviticus12:4 Then she shall remain in the blood of her cleansing for thirty-three days; she shall not touch any holy thing; and she shall not enter the sanctuary until the days of her cleansing are fulfilled. 
Leviticus12:5 But if she bears a female child, then she shall be unclean for two weeks, as in her menstruation; and she shall remain in the blood of her cleansing for sixty-six days." 
Leviticus12:6 ‘When the days of her cleansing are fulfilled, for a son or for a daughter, she shall bring to the priest at the doorway of the tent of meeting a one year old lamb for a burnt offering and a young pigeon or a turtledove for a sin offering." 
Leviticus12:7 Then he shall bring it near before Yahweh and make atonement for her, and she shall be cleansed from the flow of her blood. This is the law for her who bears a child, whether a male or a female." 
Leviticus12:8 But if she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take two turtledoves or two young pigeons, the one for a burnt offering and the other for a sin offering; and the priest shall make atonement for her, and she will be clean.’”" 
Leviticus13:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying," 
Leviticus13:2 “When a man has on the skin of his body a swelling or a scab or a bright spot, and it becomes an infection of leprosy on the skin of his body, then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest or to one of his sons the priests." 
Leviticus13:3 Then the priest shall look at the mark on the skin of the body, and if the hair in the infection has turned white and the infection appears to be deeper than the skin of his body, it is an infection of leprosy; when the priest has looked at him, he shall pronounce him unclean." 
Leviticus13:4 But if the bright spot is white on the skin of his body, and it does not appear to be deeper than the skin, and the hair on it has not turned white, then the priest shall isolate him who has the infection for seven days." 
Leviticus13:5 Then the priest shall look at him on the seventh day, and if in his eyes the infection has not changed and the infection has not spread on the skin, then the priest shall isolate him for seven more days." 
Leviticus13:6 And the priest shall look at him again on the seventh day, and if the infection has faded and the mark has not spread on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean; it is only a scab. And he shall wash his clothes and be clean." 
Leviticus13:7 “But if the scab spreads farther on the skin after he has shown himself to the priest for his cleansing, he shall appear again to the priest." 
Leviticus13:8 And the priest shall look, and if the scab has spread on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is leprosy." 
Leviticus13:9 “When the infection of leprosy is on a man, then he shall be brought to the priest." 
Leviticus13:10 The priest shall then look, and if there is a white swelling in the skin, and it has turned the hair white, and there is raw flesh still alive in the swelling," 
Leviticus13:11 it is a chronic leprosy on the skin of his body, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean; he shall not isolate him, for he is unclean." 
Leviticus13:12 But if the leprosy breaks out farther on the skin, and the leprosy covers all the skin of him who has the infection from his head even to his feet, as far as the priest can see," 
Leviticus13:13 then the priest shall look, and behold, if the leprosy has covered all his body, he shall pronounce clean him who has the infection; it has all turned white, and he is clean." 
Leviticus13:14 But whenever raw flesh appears on him, he shall be unclean." 
Leviticus13:15 And the priest shall look at the raw flesh, and he shall pronounce him unclean; the raw flesh is unclean; it is leprosy." 
Leviticus13:16 Or if the raw flesh turns again and is changed to white, then he shall come to the priest," 
Leviticus13:17 and the priest shall look at him, and behold, if the infection has turned to white, then the priest shall pronounce clean him who has the infection; he is clean." 
Leviticus13:18 “When the body has a boil on its skin and it is healed," 
Leviticus13:19 and in the place of the boil there is a white swelling or a reddish-white bright spot, then it shall be shown to the priest;" 
Leviticus13:20 and the priest shall look, and behold, if it appears to be lower than the skin, and the hair on it has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is the infection of leprosy; it has broken out in the boil." 
Leviticus13:21 But if the priest looks at it, and behold, there are no white hairs in it, and it is not lower than the skin and is faded, then the priest shall isolate him for seven days;" 
Leviticus13:22 and if it spreads farther on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is an infection." 
Leviticus13:23 But if the bright spot remains in its place and does not spread, it is only the scar of the boil; and the priest shall pronounce him clean." 
Leviticus13:24 “Or if the body sustains in its skin a burn by fire, and the raw flesh of the burn becomes a bright spot, reddish-white, or white," 
Leviticus13:25 then the priest shall look at it. And if the hair in the bright spot has turned white and it appears to be deeper than the skin, it is leprosy; it has broken out in the burn. Therefore, the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is an infection of leprosy." 
Leviticus13:26 But if the priest looks at it, and behold, there is no white hair in the bright spot, and it is no deeper than the skin but is faded, then the priest shall isolate him for seven days;" 
Leviticus13:27 and the priest shall look at him on the seventh day. If it spreads farther in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is an infection of leprosy." 
Leviticus13:28 But if the bright spot remains in its place and has not spread in the skin but is faded, it is the swelling from the burn; and the priest shall pronounce him clean, for it is only the scar of the burn." 
Leviticus13:29 “Now if a man or woman has an infection on the head or on the beard," 
Leviticus13:30 then the priest shall look at the infection, and if it appears to be deeper than the skin, and there is thin yellowish hair in it, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a scale; it is leprosy of the head or of the beard." 
Leviticus13:31 But if the priest looks at the infection of the scale, and behold, it appears to be no deeper than the skin, and there is no black hair in it, then the priest shall isolate the person with the scaly infection for seven days." 
Leviticus13:32 Now on the seventh day the priest shall look at the infection, and if the scale has not spread, and there is no yellowish hair in it, and the appearance of the scale is no deeper than the skin," 
Leviticus13:33 then he shall shave himself, but he shall not shave the scale; and the priest shall isolate the person with the scale seven more days." 
Leviticus13:34 Then on the seventh day the priest shall look at the scale, and if the scale has not spread in the skin and it appears to be no deeper than the skin, the priest shall pronounce him clean; and he shall wash his clothes and be clean." 
Leviticus13:35 But if the scale spreads farther in the skin after his cleansing," 
Leviticus13:36 then the priest shall look at him, and if the scale has spread in the skin, the priest need not seek for the yellowish hair; he is unclean." 
Leviticus13:37 If in his sight the scale has remained, however, and black hair has grown in it, the scale has healed, he is clean; and the priest shall pronounce him clean." 
Leviticus13:38 “When a man or a woman has bright spots on the skin of the body, even white bright spots," 
Leviticus13:39 then the priest shall look, and if the bright spots on the skin of their bodies are a faded white, it is eczema that has broken out on the skin; he is clean." 
Leviticus13:40 “Now if a man loses the hair of his head, he is bald; he is clean." 
Leviticus13:41 And if his head becomes bald at the front and sides, he is bald on the forehead; he is clean." 
Leviticus13:42 But if on the bald head or the bald forehead, there occurs a reddish-white infection, it is leprosy breaking out on his bald head or on his bald forehead." 
Leviticus13:43 Then the priest shall look at him; and if the swelling of the infection is reddish-white on his bald head or on his bald forehead, like the appearance of leprosy in the skin of the body," 
Leviticus13:44 he is a leprous man; he is unclean. The priest shall surely pronounce him unclean; his infection is on his head. 
Leviticus13:45 “As for the leper who has the infection, his clothes shall be torn, and the hair of his head shall be uncovered, and he shall cover his mustache and call out, ‘Unclean! Unclean!’" 
Leviticus13:46 He shall remain unclean all the days during which he has the infection; he is unclean. He shall live alone; his place of habitation shall be outside the camp. 
Leviticus13:47 “When a garment has a mark of leprosy in it, whether it is a wool garment or a linen garment," 
Leviticus13:48 whether in warp or woof, of linen or of wool, whether in leather or in any article made of leather," 
Leviticus13:49 if the mark is greenish or reddish in the garment or in the leather or in the warp or in the woof or in any article of leather, it is a leprous mark and shall be shown to the priest." 
Leviticus13:50 Then the priest shall look at the mark and shall isolate the article with the mark for seven days. 
Leviticus13:51 He shall then look at the mark on the seventh day; if the mark has spread in the garment, whether in the warp or in the woof or in the leather, whatever the purpose for which the leather is used, the mark is a leprous malignancy; it is unclean." 
Leviticus13:52 So he shall burn the garment, whether the warp or the woof, in wool or in linen, or any article of leather in which the mark occurs, for it is a leprous malignancy; it shall be burned in the fire." 
Leviticus13:53 “But if the priest shall look, and indeed the mark has not spread in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof or in any article of leather," 
Leviticus13:54 then the priest shall command them to wash the thing in which the mark occurs, and he shall isolate it for seven more days." 
Leviticus13:55 After the article with the mark has been washed, the priest shall again look, and if the mark has not changed its appearance, even though the mark has not spread, it is unclean; you shall burn it in the fire, whether an eating away has produced bareness on the top or on the front of it." 
Leviticus13:56 “Then if the priest looks, and if the mark has faded after it has been washed, then he shall tear it out of the garment or out of the leather, whether from the warp or from the woof;" 
Leviticus13:57 and if it appears again in the garment, whether in the warp or in the woof or in any article of leather, it is an outbreak; you shall burn the article with the mark in the fire." 
Leviticus13:58 Now the garment, whether the warp or the woof or any article of leather from which the mark has departed when you washed it, shall then be washed a second time and will be clean.”" 
Leviticus13:59 This is the law for the mark of leprosy in a garment of wool or linen, whether in the warp or in the woof or in any article of leather, for pronouncing it clean or unclean." 
Leviticus14:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus14:2 “This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing. Now he shall be brought to the priest," 
Leviticus14:3 and the priest shall go out to the outside of the camp. Thus the priest shall look, and if the infection of leprosy has been healed in the leper," 
Leviticus14:4 then the priest shall give a command to take two live clean birds and cedar wood and a scarlet string and hyssop for the one who is to be cleansed. 
Leviticus14:5 The priest shall also give a command to slaughter the one bird in an earthenware vessel over running water. 
Leviticus14:6 As for the live bird, he shall take it together with the cedar wood and the scarlet string and the hyssop, and he shall dip them and the live bird in the blood of the bird that was slaughtered over the running water." 
Leviticus14:7 He shall then sprinkle seven times the one who is to be cleansed from the leprosy and shall pronounce him clean, and he shall let the live bird go free over the open field." 
Leviticus14:8 The one to be cleansed shall then wash his clothes and shave off all his hair and bathe in water and be clean. Now afterward, he may enter the camp, but he shall stay outside his tent for seven days." 
Leviticus14:9 And it will be on the seventh day that he shall shave off all his hair: he shall shave his head and his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair. He shall then wash his clothes and bathe his body in water and be clean." 
Leviticus14:10 “Now on the eighth day he shall take two male lambs without blemish, and a yearling ewe lamb without blemish, and three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering, and one log of oil;" 
Leviticus14:11 and the priest who pronounces him clean shall present the man to be cleansed as well as these things before Yahweh at the doorway of the tent of meeting. 
Leviticus14:12 Then the priest shall take the one male lamb and bring it near for a guilt offering, with the log of oil, and wave them as a wave offering before Yahweh." 
Leviticus14:13 Next he shall slaughter the male lamb in the place where they slaughter the sin offering and the burnt offering, at the place of the sanctuary—for the guilt offering, like the sin offering, belongs to the priest; it is most holy." 
Leviticus14:14 The priest shall then take some of the blood of the guilt offering, and the priest shall put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot." 
Leviticus14:15 The priest shall also take some of the log of oil and pour it into his left palm; 
Leviticus14:16 the priest shall then dip his right-hand finger into the oil that is in his left palm, and with his finger sprinkle some of the oil seven times before Yahweh." 
Leviticus14:17 Of the remaining oil which is in his palm, the priest shall put some on the right ear lobe of the one to be cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot, on the blood of the guilt offering;" 
Leviticus14:18 but the rest of the oil that is in the priest’s palm, he shall put on the head of the one to be cleansed. So the priest shall make atonement on his behalf before Yahweh." 
Leviticus14:19 The priest shall next offer the sin offering and make atonement for the one to be cleansed from his uncleanness. Then afterward, he shall slaughter the burnt offering." 
Leviticus14:20 And the priest shall offer up the burnt offering and the grain offering on the altar. Thus the priest shall make atonement for him, and he will be clean." 
Leviticus14:21 “But if he is poor and his means are insufficient, then he is to take one male lamb for a guilt offering as a wave offering to make atonement for him, and one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering, and a log of oil," 
Leviticus14:22 and two turtledoves or two young pigeons which are within his means, the one shall be a sin offering and the other a burnt offering." 
Leviticus14:23 Then the eighth day he shall bring them for his cleansing to the priest, at the doorway of the tent of meeting, before Yahweh." 
Leviticus14:24 And the priest shall take the lamb of the guilt offering and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them as a wave offering before Yahweh." 
Leviticus14:25 Next he shall slaughter the lamb of the guilt offering; and the priest shall take some of the blood of the guilt offering and put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot. 
Leviticus14:26 The priest shall also pour some of the oil into his left palm; 
Leviticus14:27 and with his right-hand finger the priest shall sprinkle some of the oil that is in his left palm seven times before Yahweh. 
Leviticus14:28 The priest shall then put some of the oil that is in his palm on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot, on the place of the blood of the guilt offering." 
Leviticus14:29 Moreover, the rest of the oil that is in the priest’s palm he shall put on the head of the one to be cleansed, to make atonement on his behalf before Yahweh." 
Leviticus14:30 He shall then offer one of the turtledoves or young pigeons, which are within his means." 
Leviticus14:31 He shall offer what he can afford, the one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering, together with the grain offering. So the priest shall make atonement before Yahweh on behalf of the one to be cleansed." 
Leviticus14:32 This is the law for him in whom there is an infection of leprosy, whose means are limited for his cleansing.”" 
Leviticus14:33 Yahweh further spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying:" 
Leviticus14:34 “When you enter the land of Canaan, which I am giving you for a possession, and I put a mark of leprosy on a house in the land of your possession," 
Leviticus14:35 then the one who owns the house shall come and tell the priest, saying, ‘Something like a mark of leprosy has become visible to me in the house.’" 
Leviticus14:36 The priest shall then command that they empty the house before the priest goes in to look at the mark, so that everything in the house need not become unclean; and afterward the priest shall go in to look at the house." 
Leviticus14:37 So he shall look at the mark, and if the mark on the walls of the house has greenish or reddish depressions and appears deeper than the surface of the wall," 
Leviticus14:38 then the priest shall come out of the house, to the doorway, and put the house under isolation for seven days." 
Leviticus14:39 And the priest shall return on the seventh day and look again. If the mark has indeed spread in the walls of the house," 
Leviticus14:40 then the priest shall command them to tear out the stones with the mark in them and throw them away at an unclean place outside the city. 
Leviticus14:41 And he shall have the house scraped all around inside, and they shall pour out the plaster that they scrape off at an unclean place outside the city." 
Leviticus14:42 Then they shall take other stones and replace those stones, and he shall take other plaster and replaster the house." 
Leviticus14:43 “If, however, the mark breaks out again in the house after he has torn out the stones and scraped the house, and after it has been replastered," 
Leviticus14:44 then the priest shall come in and look again. If he sees that the mark has indeed spread in the house, it is a leprous malignancy in the house; it is unclean." 
Leviticus14:45 He shall therefore tear down the house, its stones and its timbers and all the plaster of the house, and he shall take them outside the city to an unclean place." 
Leviticus14:46 Moreover, whoever goes into the house during the time that he has put it under isolation becomes unclean until evening." 
Leviticus14:47 Likewise, whoever lies down in the house shall wash his clothes, and whoever eats in the house shall wash his clothes." 
Leviticus14:48 “If, on the other hand, the priest comes in and looks again, and the mark has not indeed spread in the house after the house has been replastered, then the priest shall pronounce the house clean because the mark has not reappeared." 
Leviticus14:49 To cleanse the house then, he shall take two birds and cedar wood and a scarlet string and hyssop," 
Leviticus14:50 and he shall slaughter the one bird in an earthenware vessel over running water. 
Leviticus14:51 Then he shall take the cedar wood and the hyssop and the scarlet string, with the live bird, and he shall dip them in the blood of the slaughtered bird as well as in the running water, and he shall sprinkle the house seven times." 
Leviticus14:52 He shall thus cleanse the house with the blood of the bird and with the running water, along with the live bird and with the cedar wood and with the hyssop and with the scarlet string." 
Leviticus14:53 However, he shall let the live bird go free outside the city into the open field. So he shall make atonement for the house, and it will be clean.”" 
Leviticus14:54 This is the law for any mark of leprosy—even for a scale," 
Leviticus14:55 and for the leprous garment or house," 
Leviticus14:56 and for a swelling and for a scab and for a bright spot— 
Leviticus14:57 to instruct when they are unclean and when they are clean. This is the law of leprosy. 
Leviticus15:1 Yahweh also spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying," 
Leviticus15:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When any man has a discharge from his body, his discharge is unclean." 
Leviticus15:3 This, moreover, shall be his uncleanness in his discharge: it is his uncleanness whether his body allows its discharge to flow or whether his body obstructs its discharge." 
Leviticus15:4 Every bed on which the person with the discharge lies becomes unclean, and everything on which he sits becomes unclean." 
Leviticus15:5 Anyone, moreover, who touches his bed shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening;" 
Leviticus15:6 and whoever sits on the thing on which the man with the discharge has been sitting shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:7 Also whoever touches the person with the discharge shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:8 Or if the man with the discharge spits on one who is clean, he too shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:9 Every saddle on which the person with the discharge rides becomes unclean. 
Leviticus15:10 Whoever then touches any of the things which were under him shall be unclean until evening, and he who carries them shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:11 Likewise, whomever the one with the discharge touches without having rinsed his hands in water shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:12 However, an earthenware vessel which the person with the discharge touches shall be broken, and every wooden vessel shall be rinsed in water." 
Leviticus15:13 ‘Now when the man with the discharge becomes cleansed from his discharge, then he shall count off for himself seven days for his cleansing; he shall then wash his clothes and bathe his body in running water and will become clean." 
Leviticus15:14 Then on the eighth day he shall take for himself two turtledoves or two young pigeons and come before Yahweh to the doorway of the tent of meeting and give them to the priest; 
Leviticus15:15 and the priest shall offer them, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. So the priest shall make atonement on his behalf before Yahweh because of his discharge." 
Leviticus15:16 ‘Now if a man has a seminal emission, he shall bathe all his body in water and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:17 As for any garment or any leather on which there is seminal emission, it shall be washed with water and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:18 If there is a woman with whom a man lies so that there is a seminal emission, they shall both bathe in water and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:19 ‘If a woman has a discharge, and her discharge in her body is blood, she shall continue in her menstrual impurity for seven days; and whoever touches her shall be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:20 Everything also on which she lies during her menstrual impurity shall be unclean, and everything on which she sits shall be unclean." 
Leviticus15:21 And anyone who touches her bed shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:22 And whoever touches any thing on which she sits shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:23 Whether it be on the bed or on the thing on which she is sitting, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:24 If a man actually lies with her so that her menstrual impurity is on him, he shall be unclean seven days, and every bed on which he lies shall be unclean." 
Leviticus15:25 ‘Now if a woman has a discharge of her blood many days, not at the period of her menstrual impurity, or if she has a discharge beyond that period, all the days of her unclean discharge she shall continue as though in her menstrual impurity; she is unclean." 
Leviticus15:26 Any bed on which she lies all the days of her discharge shall be to her like her bed at menstruation; and every thing on which she sits shall be unclean, like her uncleanness from her menstrual impurity." 
Leviticus15:27 Likewise, whoever touches them shall be unclean and shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:28 Now if she becomes clean from her discharge, she shall count off for herself seven days; and afterward she will be clean." 
Leviticus15:29 Then on the eighth day she shall take for herself two turtledoves or two young pigeons and bring them in to the priest, to the doorway of the tent of meeting." 
Leviticus15:30 And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. So the priest shall make atonement on her behalf before Yahweh because of her unclean discharge.’ 
Leviticus15:31 “Thus you shall keep the sons of Israel separated from their uncleanness, so that they will not die in their uncleanness by making My tabernacle that is among them unclean.”" 
Leviticus15:32 This is the law for the one with a discharge, and for the man who has a seminal emission so that he is unclean by it," 
Leviticus15:33 and for the woman who is ill because of menstrual impurity, and for the one who has a discharge, whether a male or a female, or a man who lies with an unclean woman." 
Leviticus16:1 Now Yahweh spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they came near the presence of Yahweh and died." 
Leviticus16:2 And Yahweh said to Moses: “Tell your brother Aaron that he shall not enter at any time into the holy place inside the veil, before the mercy seat which is on the ark, so that he will not die; for I will appear in the cloud over the mercy seat." 
Leviticus16:3 Aaron shall enter the holy place with this: with a bull from the herd for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus16:4 He shall put on the holy linen tunic, and the linen undergarments shall be next to his body, and he shall be girded with the linen sash and attired with the linen turban (these are holy garments). Then he shall bathe his body in water and put them on." 
Leviticus16:5 And he shall take from the congregation of the sons of Israel two male goats for a sin offering and one ram for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus16:6 Then Aaron shall bring near the bull for the sin offering which is for himself, that he may make atonement for himself and for his household." 
Leviticus16:7 And he shall take the two goats and present them before Yahweh at the doorway of the tent of meeting. 
Leviticus16:8 And Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats, one lot for Yahweh and the other lot for the scapegoat." 
Leviticus16:9 Then Aaron shall bring near the goat on which the lot for Yahweh fell, and he shall offer it as a sin offering." 
Leviticus16:10 But the goat on which the lot for the scapegoat fell shall be presented alive before Yahweh, to make atonement upon it, to send it out into the wilderness as the scapegoat." 
Leviticus16:11 “Then Aaron shall bring near the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and make atonement for himself and for his household, and he shall slaughter the bull of the sin offering which is for himself." 
Leviticus16:12 And he shall take a firepan full of coals of fire from upon the altar before Yahweh and two handfuls of finely ground fragrant incense, and bring it inside the veil." 
Leviticus16:13 And he shall put the incense on the fire before Yahweh, that the cloud of incense may cover the mercy seat that is on the ark of the testimony, so that he will not die." 
Leviticus16:14 Moreover, he shall take some of the blood of the bull and sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy seat on the east side; also in front of the mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times." 
Leviticus16:15 “Then he shall slaughter the goat of the sin offering which is for the people and bring its blood inside the veil and do with its blood as he did with the blood of the bull. And he shall sprinkle it on the mercy seat and in front of the mercy seat. 
Leviticus16:16 So he shall make atonement for the holy place because of the uncleanness of the sons of Israel and because of their transgressions in regard to all their sins; and thus he shall do for the tent of meeting which abides with them in the midst of their uncleanness. 
Leviticus16:17 Now when he goes in to make atonement in the holy place, no one shall be in the tent of meeting until he comes out, that he may make atonement for himself and for his household and for all the assembly of Israel." 
Leviticus16:18 Then he shall go out to the altar that is before Yahweh and make atonement for it. And he shall take some of the blood of the bull and of the blood of the goat, and put it on the horns of the altar on all sides." 
Leviticus16:19 With his finger he shall sprinkle some of the blood on it seven times and cleanse it and set it apart as holy from the uncleanness of the sons of Israel. 
Leviticus16:20 “And when he finishes making atonement for the holy place and the tent of meeting and the altar, he shall bring near the live goat." 
Leviticus16:21 Then Aaron shall lay both of his hands on the head of the live goat, and confess over it all the iniquities of the sons of Israel and all their transgressions in regard to all their sins; and he shall lay them on the head of the goat and send it out into the wilderness by the hand of a man ready to do this." 
Leviticus16:22 And the goat shall bear on itself all their iniquities to an isolated land; and he shall send out the goat in the wilderness. 
Leviticus16:23 “Then Aaron shall come into the tent of meeting and take off the linen garments which he put on when he went into the holy place and shall leave them there. 
Leviticus16:24 And he shall bathe his body with water in a holy place and put on his clothes and come forth, and offer his burnt offering and the burnt offering of the people and make atonement for himself and for the people." 
Leviticus16:25 Then he shall offer up in smoke the fat of the sin offering on the altar. 
Leviticus16:26 And the one who sent the goat out as the scapegoat shall wash his clothes and bathe his body with water; then afterward he shall come into the camp. 
Leviticus16:27 But the bull of the sin offering and the goat of the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy place, shall be taken outside the camp, and they shall burn their hides, their flesh, and their refuse in the fire." 
Leviticus16:28 Then the one who burns them shall wash his clothes and bathe his body with water, and afterward he shall come into the camp." 
Leviticus16:29 “And this shall be a perpetual statute for you: in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall humble your souls and not do any work, whether the native or the sojourner who sojourns among you;" 
Leviticus16:30 for it is on this day that atonement shall be made for you to cleanse you; you will be clean from all your sins before Yahweh. 
Leviticus16:31 It is to be a sabbath of solemn rest for you, that you may humble your souls; it is a perpetual statute." 
Leviticus16:32 So the priest who is anointed and ordained to minister as a priest in his father’s place shall make atonement: he shall thus put on the linen garments, the holy garments," 
Leviticus16:33 and make atonement for the holy sanctuary, and he shall make atonement for the tent of meeting and for the altar. He shall also make atonement for the priests and for all the people of the assembly." 
Leviticus16:34 Now you shall have this as a perpetual statute, to make atonement for the sons of Israel for all their sins once every year.” And just as Yahweh had commanded Moses, so he did." 
Leviticus17:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus17:2 “Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘This is what Yahweh has commanded, saying," 
Leviticus17:3 “Any man from the house of Israel who slaughters an ox or a lamb or a goat in the camp, or who slaughters it outside the camp," 
Leviticus17:4 and has not brought it to the doorway of the tent of meeting to bring it near as an offering to Yahweh before the tabernacle of Yahweh, it will be counted as bloodguiltiness to that man. He has shed blood, and that man shall be cut off from among his people." 
Leviticus17:5 The reason is so that the sons of Israel may bring their sacrifices which they were sacrificing in the open field, that they may bring them in to Yahweh, at the doorway of the tent of meeting to the priest, and sacrifice them as sacrifices of peace offerings to Yahweh." 
Leviticus17:6 And the priest shall splash the blood on the altar of Yahweh at the doorway of the tent of meeting and offer up the fat in smoke as a soothing aroma to Yahweh. 
Leviticus17:7 And they shall no longer sacrifice their sacrifices to the goat demons with which they play the harlot. This shall be a perpetual statute to them throughout their generations.”’ 
Leviticus17:8 “Then you shall say to them, ‘Any man from the house of Israel, or from the sojourners who sojourn among them, who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice," 
Leviticus17:9 and does not bring it to the doorway of the tent of meeting to offer it to Yahweh, that man also shall be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus17:10 ‘And any man from the house of Israel, or from the sojourners who sojourn among them, who eats any blood, I will set My face against that person who eats blood and will cut him off from among his people." 
Leviticus17:11 For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls; for it is the blood that makes atonement by the life.’" 
Leviticus17:12 Therefore I said to the sons of Israel, ‘No person among you may eat blood, and no sojourner who sojourns among you may eat blood.’" 
Leviticus17:13 So any man from the sons of Israel, or from the sojourners who sojourn among them, who in hunting catches a beast or a bird which may be eaten, shall pour out its blood and cover it with earth." 
Leviticus17:14 “For as for the life of all flesh, its blood is identified with its life. Therefore I said to the sons of Israel, ‘You are not to eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is its blood; whoever eats it shall be cut off.’" 
Leviticus17:15 And when any person eats an animal which dies or is torn by beasts, whether he is a native or a sojourner, he shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and remain unclean until evening; then he will become clean." 
Leviticus17:16 But if he does not wash them or bathe his body, then he shall bear his guilt.”" 
Leviticus18:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus18:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘I am Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus18:3 You shall not do according to what is done in the land of Egypt where you lived, nor are you to do according to what is done in the land of Canaan where I am bringing you; you shall not walk in their statutes." 
Leviticus18:4 You are to do My judgments and keep My statutes, to walk in them; I am Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus18:5 So you shall keep My statutes and My judgments, which if a man does them, he shall live by them; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus18:6 ‘None of you shall approach any blood relative of his to uncover nakedness; I am Yahweh. 
Leviticus18:7 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, that is, the nakedness of your mother. She is your mother; you are not to uncover her nakedness." 
Leviticus18:8 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife; it is your father’s nakedness. 
Leviticus18:9 The nakedness of your sister, either your father’s daughter or your mother’s daughter, whether born at home or born outside, their nakedness you shall not uncover." 
Leviticus18:10 The nakedness of your son’s daughter or your daughter’s daughter, their nakedness you shall not uncover; for their nakedness is yours." 
Leviticus18:11 The nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, born to your father, she is your sister; you shall not uncover her nakedness." 
Leviticus18:12 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s sister; she is your father’s blood relative. 
Leviticus18:13 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister, for she is your mother’s blood relative." 
Leviticus18:14 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s brother; you shall not approach his wife; she is your aunt. 
Leviticus18:15 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son’s wife; you shall not uncover her nakedness. 
Leviticus18:16 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother’s wife; it is your brother’s nakedness. 
Leviticus18:17 You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and of her daughter, nor shall you take her son’s daughter or her daughter’s daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are blood relatives. It is lewdness." 
Leviticus18:18 And you shall not marry a woman in addition to her sister as a rival while she is alive, to uncover her nakedness." 
Leviticus18:19 ‘Also you shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness during her menstrual impurity. 
Leviticus18:20 And you shall not lie sexually with your neighbor’s wife, to be defiled with her." 
Leviticus18:21 And you shall not give any of your seed to pass them over to Molech, nor shall you profane the name of your God; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus18:22 And you shall not lie with a male as one lies with a female; it is an abomination. 
Leviticus18:23 Also you shall not lie with any animal to be defiled with it, nor shall any woman stand before an animal to mate with it; it is a perversion." 
Leviticus18:24 ‘So do not defile yourselves by any of these things; for by all these the nations which I am casting out before you have become defiled. 
Leviticus18:25 So the land has become defiled, and I have brought its punishment upon it. And the land has vomited out its inhabitants." 
Leviticus18:26 But as for you, you shall keep My statutes and My judgments and shall not do any of these abominations, neither the native nor the sojourner who sojourns among you" 
Leviticus18:27 (for the men of the land who have been before you have done all these abominations, and the land has become defiled);" 
Leviticus18:28 so that the land will not vomit you out, should you defile it, as it has vomited out the nation which has been before you." 
Leviticus18:29 For whoever does any of these abominations, those persons who do so shall be cut off from among their people." 
Leviticus18:30 Thus you are to keep My charge, that you do not do any of the abominable statutes which have been done before you, so as not to defile yourselves with them; I am Yahweh your God.’”" 
Leviticus19:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying:" 
Leviticus19:2 “Speak to all the congregation of the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘You shall be holy, for I, Yahweh your God, am holy." 
Leviticus19:3 Every one of you shall fear his mother and his father, and you shall keep My sabbaths; I am Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus19:4 Do not turn to idols or make for yourselves molten gods; I am Yahweh your God. 
Leviticus19:5 ‘Now when you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to Yahweh, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted." 
Leviticus19:6 It shall be eaten the same day you offer it and the next day; but what remains until the third day shall be burned with fire. 
Leviticus19:7 So if it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an offense; it will not be accepted." 
Leviticus19:8 And everyone who eats it will bear his iniquity, for he has profaned the holy thing of Yahweh; and that person shall be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus19:9 ‘Now when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap to the very corners of your field, nor shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest." 
Leviticus19:10 Nor shall you glean your vineyard, nor shall you gather the fallen fruit of your vineyard; you shall leave them for the afflicted and for the sojourner. I am Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus19:11 ‘You shall not steal, nor deal falsely, nor lie to one another." 
Leviticus19:12 And you shall not swear falsely by My name, so as to profane the name of your God; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus19:13 ‘You shall not oppress your neighbor nor rob him. The wages of a hired man shall not remain with you overnight until morning. 
Leviticus19:14 You shall not curse a deaf man nor place a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall fear your God; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus19:15 ‘You shall do no injustice in judgment; you shall not be partial to the poor nor defer to the great, but you shall judge your neighbor in righteousness." 
Leviticus19:16 You shall not go about as a slanderer among your people, and you shall not stand against the life of your neighbor; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus19:17 ‘You shall not hate your brother in your heart; you may surely reprove your neighbor, and so not bear sin because of him." 
Leviticus19:18 You shall not take vengeance, and you shall not keep your anger against the sons of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus19:19 ‘You are to keep My statutes. You shall not breed together two kinds of your cattle; you shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed nor wear a garment upon you of two kinds of material mixed together. 
Leviticus19:20 ‘Now if a man lies sexually with a woman who is a slave assigned to another man, but who has in no way been redeemed nor given her freedom, there shall be punishment; they shall not, however, be put to death because she was not free." 
Leviticus19:21 And he shall bring his guilt offering to Yahweh to the doorway of the tent of meeting, a ram for a guilt offering." 
Leviticus19:22 The priest shall also make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering before Yahweh for his sin which he has committed, and the sin which he has committed will be forgiven him." 
Leviticus19:23 ‘When you enter the land and plant all kinds of trees for food, then you shall designate their fruit as forbidden. Three years it shall be forbidden to you; it shall not be eaten." 
Leviticus19:24 But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy, an offering of praise to Yahweh." 
Leviticus19:25 Now in the fifth year you shall eat of its fruit, that its produce may increase for you; I am Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus19:26 ‘You shall not eat anything with the blood nor interpret omens or soothsaying. 
Leviticus19:27 You shall not round off the side-growth of your heads nor harm the edges of your beard. 
Leviticus19:28 And you shall not make any cuts in your body for the dead nor make any tattoo marks on yourselves: I am Yahweh. 
Leviticus19:29 ‘Do not profane your daughter by making her a harlot, so that the land will not fall to harlotry and the land become full of lewdness." 
Leviticus19:30 You shall keep My sabbaths and fear My sanctuary; I am Yahweh. 
Leviticus19:31 ‘Do not turn to mediums or spiritists; do not seek them out to be defiled by them. I am Yahweh your God. 
Leviticus19:32 ‘You shall rise up before the gray-haired and honor the aged, and you shall fear your God; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus19:33 ‘And when a sojourner sojourns with you in your land, you shall not mistreat him." 
Leviticus19:34 The sojourner who sojourns with you shall be to you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt; I am Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus19:35 ‘You shall do no wrong in judgment, in measurement of weight, or in volume." 
Leviticus19:36 You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin; I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out from the land of Egypt." 
Leviticus19:37 You shall thus keep all My statutes and all My judgments and do them; I am Yahweh.’” 
Leviticus20:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus20:2 “You shall also say to the sons of Israel: ‘Any man from the sons of Israel or from the sojourners sojourning in Israel who gives any of his seed to Molech shall surely be put to death; the people of the land shall stone him with stones. 
Leviticus20:3 I will also set My face against that man and will cut him off from among his people because he has given some of those who are his seed to Molech, so as to defile My sanctuary and to profane My holy name." 
Leviticus20:4 If the people of the land, however, should ever turn a blind eye to that man when he gives any of those who are his seed to Molech, so as not to put him to death," 
Leviticus20:5 then I Myself will set My face against that man and against his family, and I will cut off from among their people both him and all those who play the harlot after him, in playing the harlot after Molech." 
Leviticus20:6 ‘As for the person who turns to mediums and to spiritists, to play the harlot after them, I will also set My face against that person and will cut him off from among his people." 
Leviticus20:7 Therefore, you shall set yourselves apart as holy and be holy, for I am Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus20:8 And you shall keep My statutes and do them; I am Yahweh who makes you holy. 
Leviticus20:9 ‘If there is anyone who curses his father or his mother, he shall surely be put to death; he has cursed his father or his mother. His bloodguiltiness is upon him." 
Leviticus20:10 ‘If there is a man who commits adultery with another man’s wife, one who commits adultery with his friend’s wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death." 
Leviticus20:11 If there is a man who lies with his father’s wife, he has uncovered his father’s nakedness; both of them shall surely be put to death. Their bloodguiltiness is upon them." 
Leviticus20:12 If there is a man who lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death; they have committed perversion. Their bloodguiltiness is upon them." 
Leviticus20:13 If there is a man who lies with a male as those who lie with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination; they shall surely be put to death. Their bloodguiltiness is upon them." 
Leviticus20:14 If there is a man who marries a woman and her mother, it is lewdness; both he and they shall be burned with fire so that there will be no lewdness in your midst." 
Leviticus20:15 If there is a man who lies with an animal, he shall surely be put to death; you shall also kill the animal." 
Leviticus20:16 If there is a woman who approaches any animal to mate with it, you shall kill the woman and the animal; they shall surely be put to death. Their bloodguiltiness is upon them." 
Leviticus20:17 ‘If there is a man who takes his sister, his father’s daughter, or his mother’s daughter, so that he sees her nakedness and she sees his nakedness, it is a disgrace; and they shall be cut off in the sight of the sons of their people. He has uncovered his sister’s nakedness; he bears his guilt." 
Leviticus20:18 If there is a man who lies with a menstruous woman and uncovers her nakedness, he has laid bare her flow, and she has uncovered the flow of her blood; thus both of them shall be cut off from among their people." 
Leviticus20:19 You shall also not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister or of your father’s sister, for such a one has made naked his blood relative; they will bear their guilt." 
Leviticus20:20 If there is a man who lies with his aunt, he has uncovered his uncle’s nakedness; they will bear their sin. They will die childless." 
Leviticus20:21 If there is a man who takes his brother’s wife, it is an impure act; he has uncovered his brother’s nakedness. They will be childless." 
Leviticus20:22 ‘You shall therefore keep all My statutes and all My judgments and do them, so that the land to which I am bringing you to inhabit will not vomit you out." 
Leviticus20:23 Moreover, you shall not walk in the statutes of the nation which I will cast out before you, for they did all these things, and therefore I have loathed them." 
Leviticus20:24 Hence I have said to you, “You yourselves shall possess their land, and I Myself will give it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey.” I am Yahweh your God, who has separated you from the peoples." 
Leviticus20:25 You are therefore to separate between the clean animal and the unclean, and between the unclean bird and the clean; and you shall not make yourselves detestable by animal or by bird or by anything that creeps on the ground, which I have separated for you as unclean." 
Leviticus20:26 Thus you shall be holy to Me, for I Yahweh am holy; and I have separated you from the peoples to be Mine." 
Leviticus20:27 ‘Now a man or a woman who is a medium or a spiritist shall surely be put to death. They shall be stoned with stones. Their bloodguiltiness is upon them.’” 
Leviticus21:1 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say to them: ‘No one shall defile himself for a dead person among his people," 
Leviticus21:2 except for his blood relatives who are nearest to him, his mother and his father and his son and his daughter and his brother," 
Leviticus21:3 also for his virgin sister, who is near to him because she has had no husband; for her he may defile himself." 
Leviticus21:4 He shall not defile himself as a relative by marriage among his people, and so profane himself." 
Leviticus21:5 They shall not make any baldness on their heads nor shave off the edges of their beards nor make any cuts in their flesh. 
Leviticus21:6 They shall be holy to their God and not profane the name of their God, for they bring near the offerings to Yahweh by fire, the food of their God; so they shall be holy." 
Leviticus21:7 They shall not take a woman who is profaned by harlotry, nor shall they take a woman divorced from her husband; for he is holy to his God." 
Leviticus21:8 Therefore, you shall set him apart as holy, for he brings near the food of your God; he shall be holy to you; for I Yahweh, who makes you holy, am holy." 
Leviticus21:9 Also the daughter of any priest, if she profanes herself by harlotry, she profanes her father; she shall be burned with fire." 
Leviticus21:10 ‘And the priest who is the highest among his brothers, on whose head the anointing oil has been poured and who has been ordained to wear the garments, shall not uncover his head nor tear his clothes;" 
Leviticus21:11 nor shall he approach any dead person nor defile himself even for his father or his mother; 
Leviticus21:12 nor shall he go out of the sanctuary nor profane the sanctuary of his God, for the dedication of the anointing oil of his God is on him; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus21:13 And he shall take a wife in her virginity. 
Leviticus21:14 A widow or a divorced woman or one who is profaned by harlotry, these he may not take; but rather he shall take a virgin of his own people as a wife," 
Leviticus21:15 so that he will not profane his seed among his people; for I am Yahweh who makes him holy.’” 
Leviticus21:16 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus21:17 “Speak to Aaron, saying, ‘No man of your seed throughout their generations who has a defect shall come near to offer the food of his God." 
Leviticus21:18 For no one who has a defect shall come near: a blind man or a lame man or he who has a disfigured face or any deformed limb," 
Leviticus21:19 or a man who has a broken foot or broken hand," 
Leviticus21:20 or a hunchback or a dwarf, or one who has a defect in his eye or eczema or scabs or crushed testicles." 
Leviticus21:21 No man among the seed of Aaron the priest who has a defect shall approach to bring near the offerings to Yahweh by fire; since he has a defect, he shall not approach to bring near the food of his God." 
Leviticus21:22 He may eat the food of his God, both of the most holy and of the holy," 
Leviticus21:23 only he shall not go in to the veil or approach the altar because he has a defect, so that he will not profane My sanctuaries. For I am Yahweh who makes them holy.’”" 
Leviticus21:24 So Moses spoke to Aaron and to his sons and to all the sons of Israel. 
Leviticus22:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus22:2 “Tell Aaron and his sons to be careful with the holy gifts of the sons of Israel, which they set apart to Me as holy, so as not to profane My holy name; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus22:3 Say to them, ‘If any man among all your seed throughout your generations comes near to the holy gifts which the sons of Israel set apart as holy to Yahweh, and he has an uncleanness, that person shall be cut off from before Me; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus22:4 No man of the seed of Aaron, who is a leper or who has a discharge, may eat of the holy gifts until he is clean. And if one touches anything made unclean by a corpse, or if a man has a seminal emission," 
Leviticus22:5 or if a man touches any teeming things by which he is made unclean or any man by whom he is made unclean, whatever his uncleanness," 
Leviticus22:6 a person who touches any such thing shall be unclean until evening and shall not eat of the holy gifts unless he has bathed his body in water. 
Leviticus22:7 But the sun will set, and he will be clean. And afterward he shall eat of the holy gifts, for it is his food." 
Leviticus22:8 He shall not eat an animal which dies or is torn by beasts, becoming unclean by it; I am Yahweh." 
Leviticus22:9 They shall therefore keep My charge so that they will not bear sin because of it and die thereby because they profane it; I am Yahweh who makes them holy. 
Leviticus22:10 ‘No layman, however, is to eat the holy gift; a foreign resident with the priest or a hired man shall not eat of the holy gift." 
Leviticus22:11 But if a priest buys a person as his property with his money, that one may eat of it, and those who are born in his house may eat of his food." 
Leviticus22:12 If a priest’s daughter is married to a layman, she shall not eat of the contribution of the holy gifts." 
Leviticus22:13 But if a priest’s daughter becomes a widow or divorced, and has no seed, and returns to her father’s house as in her youth, she shall eat of her father’s food; but no layman shall eat of it." 
Leviticus22:14 But if a man eats a holy gift unintentionally, then he shall add to it a fifth of it and shall give the holy gift to the priest." 
Leviticus22:15 They shall not profane the holy gifts of the sons of Israel which they raise up to Yahweh," 
Leviticus22:16 and so cause them to bear punishment for guilt by eating their holy gifts; for I am Yahweh who makes them holy.’” 
Leviticus22:17 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus22:18 “Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘Any man of the house of Israel or of the sojourners in Israel who brings near his offering, whether it is any of their votive or any of their freewill offerings, which they bring near to Yahweh for a burnt offering—" 
Leviticus22:19 for you to be accepted—it must be a male without blemish from the cattle, the sheep, or the goats." 
Leviticus22:20 Whatever has a defect, you shall not bring it near, for it will not be accepted for you." 
Leviticus22:21 And when a man brings a sacrifice of peace offerings near to Yahweh to fulfill a special vow or for a freewill offering, of the herd or of the flock, it must be without blemish to be accepted; there shall be no defect in it." 
Leviticus22:22 Those that are blind or fractured or maimed or have a running sore or eczema or scabs, you shall not bring near to Yahweh nor make of them an offering by fire on the altar to Yahweh." 
Leviticus22:23 Now in respect to an ox or a lamb which has an overgrown or stunted member, you may offer it for a freewill offering, but for a votive offering it will not be accepted." 
Leviticus22:24 Also anything with its testicles bruised or crushed or torn or cut, you shall not bring near to Yahweh, and you shall not do thus in your land," 
Leviticus22:25 nor shall you bring near any such thing from the hand of a foreigner for offering as the food of your God; for their corruption is in them, they have a defect; they shall not be accepted for you.’”" 
Leviticus22:26 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus22:27 “When an ox or a sheep or a goat is born, it shall remain seven days with its mother, and from the eighth day on it shall be accepted as a sacrifice of an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Leviticus22:28 But, whether it is an ox or a sheep, you shall not slaughter both it and its young in one day." 
Leviticus22:29 And when you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to Yahweh, you shall sacrifice it so that you may be accepted." 
Leviticus22:30 It shall be eaten on the same day; you shall leave none of it until morning; I am Yahweh. 
Leviticus22:31 So you shall keep My commandments and do them; I am Yahweh. 
Leviticus22:32 “And you shall not profane My holy name, but I will be treated as holy among the sons of Israel; I am Yahweh who makes you holy," 
Leviticus22:33 who brought you out from the land of Egypt to be your God; I am Yahweh.” 
Leviticus23:1 And Yahweh spoke again to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus23:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘The appointed times of Yahweh which you shall proclaim as holy convocations—My appointed times are these:" 
Leviticus23:3 ‘For six days work may be done, but on the seventh day there is a sabbath of complete rest, a holy convocation. You shall not do any work; it is a sabbath to Yahweh in all your places of habitation." 
Leviticus23:4 ‘These are the appointed times of Yahweh, holy convocations which you shall proclaim at the times appointed for them." 
Leviticus23:5 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at twilight is the Passover of Yahweh." 
Leviticus23:6 Then on the fifteenth day of the same month there is the Feast of Unleavened Bread to Yahweh; for seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. 
Leviticus23:7 On the first day you shall have a holy convocation; you shall not do any laborious work. 
Leviticus23:8 But for seven days you shall bring near an offering by fire to Yahweh. On the seventh day is a holy convocation; you shall not do any laborious work.’” 
Leviticus23:9 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus23:10 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When you enter the land which I am going to give to you and reap its harvest, then you shall bring in the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest." 
Leviticus23:11 And he shall wave the sheaf before Yahweh for you to be accepted; on the day after the sabbath the priest shall wave it. 
Leviticus23:12 Now on the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb one year old without blemish for a burnt offering to Yahweh." 
Leviticus23:13 Its grain offering shall then be two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil, an offering by fire to Yahweh for a soothing aroma, with its drink offering, a fourth of a hin of wine." 
Leviticus23:14 Until this same day, until you have brought in the offering of your God, you shall eat neither bread nor roasted grain nor new growth. It is to be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your places of habitation." 
Leviticus23:15 ‘You shall also count for yourselves from the day after the sabbath, from the day when you brought in the sheaf of the wave offering; there shall be seven complete sabbaths." 
Leviticus23:16 You shall count fifty days to the day after the seventh sabbath; then you shall bring a new grain offering near to Yahweh. 
Leviticus23:17 You shall bring in from your places of habitation two loaves of bread for a wave offering, made of two-tenths of an ephah; they shall be of a fine flour, baked with leaven as first fruits to Yahweh." 
Leviticus23:18 Along with the bread you shall bring near seven one year old male lambs without blemish and a bull from the herd and two rams; they shall be a burnt offering to Yahweh, with their grain offering and their drink offerings, an offering by fire of a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Leviticus23:19 You shall also offer one male goat for a sin offering and two male lambs one year old for a sacrifice of peace offerings. 
Leviticus23:20 The priest shall then wave them with the bread of the first fruits for a wave offering with two lambs before Yahweh; they shall be holy to Yahweh for the priest. 
Leviticus23:21 On this same day you shall make a proclamation as well; it shall be a holy convocation for you. You shall do no laborious work. It is to be a perpetual statute in all your places of habitation throughout your generations. 
Leviticus23:22 ‘When you reap the harvest of your land, moreover, you shall not reap to the very corners of your field nor gather the gleaning of your harvest; you are to leave them for the afflicted and the sojourner. I am Yahweh your God.’”" 
Leviticus23:23 Again Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus23:24 “Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘In the seventh month on the first of the month you shall have a rest, a memorial by blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation." 
Leviticus23:25 You shall not do any laborious work, but you shall bring an offering by fire near to Yahweh.’”" 
Leviticus23:26 And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus23:27 “On exactly the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement; it shall be a holy convocation for you, and you shall humble your souls and bring an offering by fire near to Yahweh." 
Leviticus23:28 And you shall not do any work on this same day, for it is a day of atonement, to make atonement on your behalf before Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus23:29 If there is any person who will not humble himself on this same day, he shall be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus23:30 And as for any person who does any work on this same day, that person I will cause to perish from among his people." 
Leviticus23:31 You shall do no work at all. It is to be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your places of habitation. 
Leviticus23:32 It is to be a sabbath of complete rest to you, and you shall humble your souls; on the ninth of the month at evening, from evening until evening you shall keep your sabbath.”" 
Leviticus23:33 Again Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus23:34 “Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘On the fifteenth of this seventh month is the Feast of Booths for seven days to Yahweh." 
Leviticus23:35 On the first day is a holy convocation; you shall do no laborious work of any kind. 
Leviticus23:36 For seven days you shall bring an offering by fire near to Yahweh. On the eighth day you shall have a holy convocation and bring an offering by fire near to Yahweh; it is a solemn assembly. You shall do no laborious work. 
Leviticus23:37 ‘These are the appointed times of Yahweh which you shall proclaim as holy convocations, to bring offerings by fire near to Yahweh—burnt offerings and grain offerings, sacrifices and drink offerings, each day’s matter on its own day—" 
Leviticus23:38 besides those of the sabbaths of Yahweh and besides your gifts and besides all your votive and freewill offerings, which you give to Yahweh." 
Leviticus23:39 ‘On exactly the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the produce of the land, you shall celebrate the feast of Yahweh for seven days, with a rest on the first day and a rest on the eighth day." 
Leviticus23:40 And on the first day you shall take for yourselves the foliage of beautiful trees, palm branches and boughs of leafy trees and willows of the brook, and you shall be glad before Yahweh your God for seven days." 
Leviticus23:41 You shall thus celebrate it as a feast to Yahweh for seven days in the year. It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations; you shall celebrate it in the seventh month. 
Leviticus23:42 You shall live in booths for seven days; all the native-born in Israel shall live in booths," 
Leviticus23:43 so that your generations may know that I had the sons of Israel live in booths when I brought them out from the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.’” 
Leviticus23:44 So Moses spoke to the sons of Israel the appointed times of Yahweh. 
Leviticus24:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus24:2 “Command the sons of Israel that they bring to you clear oil from beaten olives for the light, to make a lamp burn continually." 
Leviticus24:3 Outside the veil of testimony in the tent of meeting, Aaron shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Yahweh continually; it shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations." 
Leviticus24:4 He shall keep the lamps in order on the pure gold lampstand before Yahweh continually. 
Leviticus24:5 “Then you shall take fine flour and bake twelve cakes with it; two-tenths of an ephah shall be in each cake. 
Leviticus24:6 And you shall set them in two rows, six to a row, on the pure gold table before Yahweh." 
Leviticus24:7 And you shall put pure frankincense on each row that it may be a memorial portion for the bread, even an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Leviticus24:8 Every sabbath day he shall set it in order before Yahweh continually; it is an everlasting covenant for the sons of Israel. 
Leviticus24:9 And it shall be for Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat it in a holy place; for it is most holy to him from the offerings to Yahweh by fire, his portion forever.”" 
Leviticus24:10 Now the son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the sons of Israel; and the Israelite woman’s son and a man of Israel struggled with each other in the camp." 
Leviticus24:11 And the son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name and cursed. So they brought him to Moses. (Now his mother’s name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.)" 
Leviticus24:12 And they put him in custody so that the command of Yahweh might be made clear to them. 
Leviticus24:13 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus24:14 “Bring the one who has cursed outside the camp, and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head; then let all the congregation stone him." 
Leviticus24:15 And you shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘If anyone curses his God, then he will bear his sin." 
Leviticus24:16 Moreover, the one who blasphemes the name of Yahweh shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall certainly stone him. The sojourner as well as the native, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death." 
Leviticus24:17 ‘If a man strikes down the life of any human being, he shall surely be put to death." 
Leviticus24:18 And the one who strikes down the life of an animal shall make restitution for it, life for life." 
Leviticus24:19 If a man injures his neighbor, just as he has done, so it shall be done to him:" 
Leviticus24:20 fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; just as he has injured a man, so it shall be inflicted on him." 
Leviticus24:21 Thus the one who strikes down an animal shall make restitution for it, but the one who strikes down a man shall be put to death." 
Leviticus24:22 There shall be one standard of judgment for you; it shall be for the sojourner as well as the native, for I am Yahweh your God.’”" 
Leviticus24:23 Then Moses spoke to the sons of Israel, and they brought the one who had cursed outside the camp and stoned him with stones. Thus the sons of Israel did, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Leviticus25:1 Yahweh then spoke to Moses at Mount Sinai, saying," 
Leviticus25:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When you come into the land which I am giving to you, then the land shall have a sabbath to Yahweh." 
Leviticus25:3 Six years you shall sow your field, and six years you shall prune your vineyard and gather in its produce," 
Leviticus25:4 but during the seventh year the land shall have a sabbath rest, a sabbath to Yahweh; you shall not sow your field nor prune your vineyard." 
Leviticus25:5 What grows of its own accord from your harvest you shall not reap, and your grapes of untrimmed vines you shall not gather; the land shall have a sabbatical year." 
Leviticus25:6 And the sabbath produce of the land shall be for food; for you and your male and female slaves and your hired man and your foreign resident, those who sojourn with you." 
Leviticus25:7 Even your cattle and the beasts that are in your land shall have all its produce to eat. 
Leviticus25:8 ‘You are also to count off seven sabbaths of years for yourself, seven times seven years, so that you have the time of the seven sabbaths of years, namely, forty-nine years." 
Leviticus25:9 You shall then sound a ram’s horn abroad on the tenth day of the seventh month; on the day of atonement you shall sound a horn all through your land. 
Leviticus25:10 You shall thus set apart as holy the fiftieth year and proclaim a release through the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you, and each of you shall return to his own possession of land, and each of you shall return to his family." 
Leviticus25:11 You shall have the fiftieth year as a jubilee; you shall not sow; you shall not reap what grows of its own accord; you shall not gather in from its untrimmed vines. 
Leviticus25:12 For it is a jubilee; it shall be holy to you. You shall eat its produce out of the field. 
Leviticus25:13 ‘On this year of jubilee, each of you shall return to his own possession of land." 
Leviticus25:14 If you make a sale, moreover, to your companion or buy from your friend’s hand, you shall not mistreat one another." 
Leviticus25:15 Corresponding to the number of years after the jubilee, you shall buy from your companion; he is to sell to you according to the number of years of produce." 
Leviticus25:16 In proportion to the extent of the years you shall increase its price, and in proportion to the fewness of the years you shall diminish its price, for it is the number of crops it produces that he is selling to you." 
Leviticus25:17 So you shall not mistreat one another, but you shall fear your God; for I am Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus25:18 ‘You shall thus observe My statutes and keep My judgments, so as to do them, that you may live securely on the land." 
Leviticus25:19 Then the land will yield its fruit, so that you can eat your fill and live securely on it." 
Leviticus25:20 But if you say, “What are we going to eat on the seventh year if we do not sow or gather in our produce?”" 
Leviticus25:21 then I will command My blessing for you in the sixth year that it will bring forth the produce for three years. 
Leviticus25:22 So you shall sow the eighth year and eat old things from that produce, eating the old until the ninth year when its produce comes in." 
Leviticus25:23 ‘The land, moreover, shall not be sold permanently, for the land is Mine; for you are but sojourners and foreign residents with Me." 
Leviticus25:24 Thus for every piece of land of your possession, you shall provide for the redemption of the land." 
Leviticus25:25 ‘If a brother of yours becomes so poor he has to sell part of his possession of land, then his nearest kinsman redeemer is to come and redeem what his brother has sold." 
Leviticus25:26 Or in case a man has no kinsman redeemer, but recovers his means and finds sufficient payment for its redemption," 
Leviticus25:27 then he shall calculate the years since its sale and return the balance to the man to whom he sold it, and so return to his possession of land." 
Leviticus25:28 But if he has not found sufficient means to return it to himself, then what he has sold shall remain in the hands of its purchaser until the year of jubilee; but at the jubilee it shall revert, that he may return to his possession of land." 
Leviticus25:29 ‘Likewise, if a man sells a house for habitation in a walled city, then his redemption right remains valid until a full year from its sale; his right of redemption lasts a full year." 
Leviticus25:30 But if it is not redeemed for him within the space of a full year, then the house that is in the walled city passes permanently to its purchaser throughout his generations; it does not revert in the jubilee." 
Leviticus25:31 The houses of the villages, however, which have no surrounding wall, shall be considered as open fields; they have redemption rights and revert in the jubilee." 
Leviticus25:32 As for cities of the Levites, the Levites have a permanent right of redemption for the houses of the cities which are their possession." 
Leviticus25:33 What, therefore, belongs to the Levites may be redeemed, and a house sale in the city of their possession reverts in the jubilee, for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the sons of Israel." 
Leviticus25:34 But pasture fields of their cities shall not be sold, for that is their perpetual possession." 
Leviticus25:35 ‘Now if a brother of yours becomes poor and his means with regard to you falter, then you are to sustain him, like a sojourner or a foreign resident, that he may live with you." 
Leviticus25:36 Do not take usurious interest from him, but fear your God, that your brother may live with you." 
Leviticus25:37 You shall not give him your silver at interest nor your food for gain. 
Leviticus25:38 I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God." 
Leviticus25:39 ‘If a brother of yours becomes so poor with regard to you that he sells himself to you, you shall not subject him to a slave’s service." 
Leviticus25:40 He shall be with you as a hired man, as if he were a foreign resident; he shall serve with you until the year of jubilee." 
Leviticus25:41 He shall then go out from you, he and his sons with him, and shall return to his family, that he may return to the possession of the land of his fathers." 
Leviticus25:42 For they are My slaves whom I brought out from the land of Egypt; they shall not be sold in a slave sale. 
Leviticus25:43 You shall not have dominion over him with brutality, but you shall fear your God." 
Leviticus25:44 As for your male and female slaves whom you may have—you may acquire male and female slaves from the nations that are around you. 
Leviticus25:45 And also you may acquire from the sons of the foreign residents who sojourn among you, from them and their families who are with you; as for those whom they have begotten in your land, they also may become your possession." 
Leviticus25:46 You may even give them as an inheritance to your sons after you, to receive as a possession; you can use them as permanent slaves. But in respect to your brothers, the sons of Israel, you shall not have dominion over one another with brutality." 
Leviticus25:47 ‘Now if the means of a sojourner or of a foreign resident with you becomes sufficient, and a brother of yours becomes so poor with regard to him as to sell himself to a sojourner who resides with you or to the descendants of a sojourner’s family," 
Leviticus25:48 then he shall have redemption right after he has been sold. One of his brothers may redeem him," 
Leviticus25:49 or his uncle or his uncle’s son may redeem him, or one of his blood relatives from his family may redeem him; or if he prospers, he may redeem himself." 
Leviticus25:50 He then with his purchaser shall calculate from the year when he sold himself to him up to the year of jubilee; and the price of his sale shall correspond to the number of years. It is like the days of a hired man that he shall be with him. 
Leviticus25:51 If there are still many years, he shall return part of his purchase price in proportion to them for his own redemption;" 
Leviticus25:52 and if few years remain until the year of jubilee, he shall so calculate with him. In proportion to his years he shall return the amount for his redemption." 
Leviticus25:53 Like a man hired year by year he shall be with him; he shall not have dominion over him with brutality in your sight. 
Leviticus25:54 Even if he is not redeemed by these means, he shall still go out in the year of jubilee, he and his sons with him." 
Leviticus25:55 For the sons of Israel are My slaves; they are My slaves whom I brought out from the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God. 
Leviticus26:1 ‘You shall not make for yourselves idols, nor shall you set up for yourselves a graven image or a sacred pillar, nor shall you place a carved stone in your land to bow down to it; for I am Yahweh your God." 
Leviticus26:2 You shall keep My sabbaths and fear My sanctuary; I am Yahweh. 
Leviticus26:3 If you walk in My statutes and keep My commandments so as to do them," 
Leviticus26:4 then I shall give you rains in their season, so that the land will give forth its produce and the trees of the field will give forth their fruit." 
Leviticus26:5 Indeed, your threshing will last for you until grape gathering, and grape gathering will last until sowing time. You will thus eat your food to the full and live securely in your land." 
Leviticus26:6 I shall also give you peace in the land so that you may lie down, with no one making you tremble. I shall also eliminate wild beasts from the land, and no sword will pass through your land." 
Leviticus26:7 But you will pursue your enemies, and they will fall before you by the sword;" 
Leviticus26:8 and five of you will pursue one hundred, and one hundred of you will pursue ten thousand, and your enemies will fall before you by the sword." 
Leviticus26:9 So I will turn toward you and make you fruitful and multiply you, and I will confirm My covenant with you." 
Leviticus26:10 And you will eat the old supply and clear out the old because of the new. 
Leviticus26:11 Moreover, I will make My dwelling among you, and My soul will not loathe you." 
Leviticus26:12 I will also walk among you and be your God, and you shall be My people." 
Leviticus26:13 I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt so that you would not be their slaves, and I broke the bars of your yoke and made you walk erect." 
Leviticus26:14 ‘But if you do not obey Me and do not do all these commandments," 
Leviticus26:15 if, instead, you reject My statutes, and if your soul loathes My judgments so as not to do all My commandments and so break My covenant," 
Leviticus26:16 I, in turn, will do this to you: I will appoint over you a sudden terror, consumption and fever that will waste away the eyes and cause the soul to pine away; also, you will sow your seed uselessly, for your enemies will eat it up." 
Leviticus26:17 And I will set My face against you so that you will be defeated before your enemies; and those who hate you will have dominion over you, and you will flee when no one is pursuing you." 
Leviticus26:18 If also after these things you do not obey Me, then I will discipline you seven times more for your sins." 
Leviticus26:19 I will also break down your pride of strength; I will also give your sky over to become like iron and your earth like bronze. 
Leviticus26:20 And your power will be spent uselessly, for your land will not give forth its produce and the trees of the land will not give forth their fruit." 
Leviticus26:21 ‘If then, you walk in hostility against Me and are unwilling to obey Me, I will increase the plague on you seven times according to your sins." 
Leviticus26:22 And I will send out among you the beasts of the field, which will bereave you of your children and cut down your cattle and reduce your number so that your roads lie desolate." 
Leviticus26:23 ‘And if by these things you do not accept My discipline, but walk in hostility against Me," 
Leviticus26:24 then I will walk in hostility against you; and I, even I, will strike you seven times for your sins." 
Leviticus26:25 I will also bring upon you a sword which will execute vengeance for the covenant; and when you gather together into your cities, I will send pestilence among you so that you shall be given over into enemy hands." 
Leviticus26:26 When I break your staff of bread, ten women will bake your bread in one oven, and they will bring back your bread by rationed weight so that you will eat and not become full." 
Leviticus26:27 ‘Yet, if in spite of this you do not obey Me, but walk in hostility against Me," 
Leviticus26:28 then I will walk in wrathful hostility against you, and I, even I, will discipline you seven times for your sins." 
Leviticus26:29 Further, you will eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters you will eat." 
Leviticus26:30 I then will destroy your high places and cut down your incense altars and give your corpses to lie on the corpses of your idols, for My soul shall loathe you." 
Leviticus26:31 And I will give your cities over as a waste and will make your sanctuaries desolate, and I will not smell your soothing aromas." 
Leviticus26:32 And I will make the land desolate, so that your enemies who inhabit it will themselves feel desolate because of it." 
Leviticus26:33 You, however, I will scatter among the nations and will draw out a sword after you, as your land becomes desolate and your cities become waste." 
Leviticus26:34 ‘Then the land will make up for its sabbaths all the days of the desolation, and you will be in your enemies’ land; then the land will rest and make up for its sabbaths." 
Leviticus26:35 All the days of its desolation it will observe the rest which it did not observe on your sabbaths, while you were living on it." 
Leviticus26:36 As for those of you who may remain, I will also bring weakness into their hearts in the lands of their enemies. And the sound of a driven leaf will pursue them, and even when no one is pursuing they will flee as though from the sword, and they will fall." 
Leviticus26:37 They will therefore stumble over each other as if running from the sword, although no one is pursuing; and you will have no strength to stand up before your enemies." 
Leviticus26:38 But you will perish among the nations, and your enemies’ land will consume you." 
Leviticus26:39 So those of you who may remain will rot away in their iniquity in the lands of your enemies; and also in the iniquities of their fathers they will rot away with them. 
Leviticus26:40 ‘If they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers, in their unfaithfulness which they committed against Me, and also how they walked in hostility against Me—" 
Leviticus26:41 I also was walking in hostility against them, to bring them into the land of their enemies—or if their uncircumcised heart becomes humbled so that they then make up for their iniquity," 
Leviticus26:42 then I will remember My covenant with Jacob, and I will remember also My covenant with Isaac and My covenant with Abraham as well, and I will remember the land." 
Leviticus26:43 For the land will be forsaken by them and will make up for its sabbaths while it is made desolate without them. They, meanwhile, will be making up for their iniquity because they rejected My judgments and their soul loathed My statutes." 
Leviticus26:44 Yet in spite of this, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, nor will I so loathe them as to bring an end to them, breaking My covenant with them; for I am Yahweh their God." 
Leviticus26:45 But I will remember for them the covenant with their ancestors, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God. I am Yahweh.’”" 
Leviticus26:46 These are the statutes and judgments and laws which Yahweh has given to be between Himself and the sons of Israel by the hand of Moses at Mount Sinai. 
Leviticus27:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Leviticus27:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When a man makes a difficult vow, he shall be valued according to your valuation of persons belonging to Yahweh." 
Leviticus27:3 If your valuation is of the male from twenty years even to sixty years old, then your valuation shall be fifty shekels of silver, according to the shekel of the sanctuary." 
Leviticus27:4 Or if it is a female, then your valuation shall be thirty shekels." 
Leviticus27:5 If it be from five years even to twenty years old then your valuation for the male shall be twenty shekels and for the female ten shekels. 
Leviticus27:6 But if they are from a month even up to five years old, then your valuation shall be five shekels of silver for the male, and for the female your valuation shall be three shekels of silver." 
Leviticus27:7 If they are from sixty years old and upward, if it is a male, then your valuation shall be fifteen shekels, and for the female ten shekels." 
Leviticus27:8 But if he is poorer than your valuation, then he shall be presented before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according to the means of the one who vowed, the priest shall value him." 
Leviticus27:9 ‘Now if it is an animal of the kind which men can bring near as an offering to Yahweh, any such that one gives to Yahweh shall be holy." 
Leviticus27:10 He shall not replace it or exchange it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good; or if he does exchange animal for animal, then both it and its substitute shall become holy." 
Leviticus27:11 If, however, it is any unclean animal of the kind which men do not bring near as an offering to Yahweh, then he shall present the animal before the priest." 
Leviticus27:12 And the priest shall value it as either good or bad; as you, the priest, value it, so it shall be." 
Leviticus27:13 But if he should ever wish to redeem it, then he shall add one-fifth of it to your valuation." 
Leviticus27:14 ‘Now if a man sets his house apart as holy to Yahweh, then the priest shall value it as either good or bad; as the priest values it, so it shall stand." 
Leviticus27:15 Yet if the one who sets it apart as holy should wish to redeem his house, then he shall add one-fifth of your valuation price to it, so that it may be his." 
Leviticus27:16 ‘Again, if a man sets apart as holy to Yahweh a portion of the fields of his own possession, then your valuation shall be proportionate to the seed needed for it: a homer of barley seed at fifty shekels of silver." 
Leviticus27:17 If he sets apart his field as holy from the year of jubilee, according to your valuation it shall stand." 
Leviticus27:18 If he sets apart his field as holy after the jubilee, however, then the priest shall calculate the price for him proportionate to the years that are left until the year of jubilee; and it shall be deducted from your valuation." 
Leviticus27:19 If the one who sets it apart as holy should ever wish to redeem the field, then he shall add one-fifth of your valuation price to it so that it may stand as his own." 
Leviticus27:20 Yet if he will not redeem the field, but has sold the field to another man, it may no longer be redeemed;" 
Leviticus27:21 and it will be that when it reverts in the jubilee, the field shall be holy to Yahweh, like a field that is devoted; it shall be for the priest as his possession." 
Leviticus27:22 Or if he sets apart as holy to Yahweh a field which he has bought, which is not a portion of the field of his own possession," 
Leviticus27:23 then the priest shall calculate for him the amount of your valuation up to the year of jubilee; and he shall on that day give your valuation as holy to Yahweh. 
Leviticus27:24 In the year of jubilee the field shall return to the one from whom he bought it, to whom the possession of the land belongs." 
Leviticus27:25 Every valuation of yours, moreover, shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary. The shekel shall be twenty gerahs." 
Leviticus27:26 ‘However, a firstborn among animals, which as a firstborn belongs to Yahweh, no man may set it apart as holy; whether ox or sheep, it is Yahweh’s." 
Leviticus27:27 But if it is among the unclean animals, then he shall ransom it according to your valuation and add to it one-fifth of it; and if it is not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your valuation." 
Leviticus27:28 ‘Nevertheless, anything which a man devotes to Yahweh out of all that he has, of man or animal or of the fields of his own possession, shall not be sold or redeemed. Anything devoted to destruction is most holy to Yahweh." 
Leviticus27:29 No one who may have been devoted among men shall be ransomed; he shall surely be put to death. 
Leviticus27:30 ‘Thus all the tithe of the land, of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the tree, belongs to Yahweh; it is holy to Yahweh." 
Leviticus27:31 If, therefore, a man wishes to redeem part of his tithe, he shall add to it one-fifth of it." 
Leviticus27:32 For every tenth part of herd or flock, whatever passes under the rod, the tenth one shall be holy to Yahweh." 
Leviticus27:33 He shall not inquire whether it is good or bad, nor shall he exchange it; or if he does exchange it, then both it and its substitute shall become holy. It shall not be redeemed.’”" 
Leviticus27:34 These are the commandments which Yahweh commanded Moses for the sons of Israel at Mount Sinai. 
Numbers1:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first of the second month, in the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying," 
Numbers1:2 “Take a census of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, every male, head by head" 
Numbers1:3 from twenty years old and upward, whoever is able to go out to war in Israel, you and Aaron shall number them by their armies." 
Numbers1:4 With you, moreover, there shall be a man of each tribe, each one head of his father’s household." 
Numbers1:5 These then are the names of the men who shall stand with you: of Reuben, Elizur the son of Shedeur;" 
Numbers1:6 of Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai;" 
Numbers1:7 of Judah, Nahshon the son of Amminadab;" 
Numbers1:8 of Issachar, Nethanel the son of Zuar;" 
Numbers1:9 of Zebulun, Eliab the son of Helon;" 
Numbers1:10 of the sons of Joseph: of Ephraim, Elishama the son of Ammihud; of Manasseh, Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur;" 
Numbers1:11 of Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni;" 
Numbers1:12 of Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai;" 
Numbers1:13 of Asher, Pagiel the son of Ochran;" 
Numbers1:14 of Gad, Eliasaph the son of Deuel;" 
Numbers1:15 of Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan." 
Numbers1:16 These are they who were called upon by the congregation, the leaders of their fathers’ tribes; they were the heads of divisions of Israel.”" 
Numbers1:17 So Moses and Aaron took these men who had been designated by name," 
Numbers1:18 and they assembled all the congregation together on the first of the second month. Then they registered by genealogy in their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, head by head," 
Numbers1:19 just as Yahweh had commanded Moses. So he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai. 
Numbers1:20 Now the sons of Reuben, Israel’s firstborn, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:21 their numbered men of the tribe of Reuben were 46,500." 
Numbers1:22 Of the sons of Simeon, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, their numbered men, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:23 their numbered men of the tribe of Simeon were 59,300." 
Numbers1:24 Of the sons of Gad, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:25 their numbered men of the tribe of Gad were 45,650." 
Numbers1:26 Of the sons of Judah, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:27 their numbered men of the tribe of Judah were 74,600." 
Numbers1:28 Of the sons of Issachar, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:29 their numbered men of the tribe of Issachar were 54,400." 
Numbers1:30 Of the sons of Zebulun, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:31 their numbered men of the tribe of Zebulun were 57,400." 
Numbers1:32 Of the sons of Joseph, namely, of the sons of Ephraim, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:33 their numbered men of the tribe of Ephraim were 40,500." 
Numbers1:34 Of the sons of Manasseh, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:35 their numbered men of the tribe of Manasseh were 32,200." 
Numbers1:36 Of the sons of Benjamin, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:37 their numbered men of the tribe of Benjamin were 35,400." 
Numbers1:38 Of the sons of Dan, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:39 their numbered men of the tribe of Dan were 62,700." 
Numbers1:40 Of the sons of Asher, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:41 their numbered men of the tribe of Asher were 41,500." 
Numbers1:42 Of the sons of Naphtali, their genealogical registration by their families, by their fathers’ households, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war," 
Numbers1:43 their numbered men of the tribe of Naphtali were 53,400." 
Numbers1:44 These are the ones who were numbered, whom Moses and Aaron numbered, with the leaders of Israel, twelve men, each of whom was of his father’s household." 
Numbers1:45 So all the numbered men of the sons of Israel by their fathers’ households, from twenty years old and upward, whoever was able to go out to war in Israel," 
Numbers1:46 even all the numbered men were 603,550." 
Numbers1:47 The Levites, however, were not numbered among them by their fathers’ tribe." 
Numbers1:48 Yahweh had spoken to Moses, saying," 
Numbers1:49 “Only the tribe of Levi you shall not number, nor shall you take their census among the sons of Israel." 
Numbers1:50 But you shall appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the testimony and over all its furnishings and over all that belongs to it. They shall carry the tabernacle and all its furnishings, and they shall attend to it; they shall also camp around the tabernacle." 
Numbers1:51 So when the tabernacle is to set out, the Levites shall take it down; and when the tabernacle encamps, the Levites shall set it up. But the layman who comes near shall be put to death." 
Numbers1:52 And the sons of Israel shall camp, each man by his own camp, and each man by his own standard, according to their armies." 
Numbers1:53 But the Levites shall camp around the tabernacle of the testimony so that there will be no wrath on the congregation of the sons of Israel. So the Levites shall keep charge of the tabernacle of the testimony.” 
Numbers1:54 Thus the sons of Israel did; according to all which Yahweh had commanded Moses, so they did." 
Numbers2:1 Now Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying," 
Numbers2:2 “The sons of Israel shall camp, each by his own standard, with the banners of their fathers’ households; they shall camp around the tent of meeting at a distance." 
Numbers2:3 Now those who camp on the east side toward the sunrise shall be of the standard of the camp of Judah, by their armies, and the leader of the sons of Judah: Nahshon the son of Amminadab," 
Numbers2:4 and his army, even their numbered men, 74,600." 
Numbers2:5 Those who camp next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar, and the leader of the sons of Issachar: Nethanel the son of Zuar," 
Numbers2:6 and his army, even his numbered men, 54,400." 
Numbers2:7 Then the tribe of Zebulun, and the leader of the sons of Zebulun: Eliab the son of Helon," 
Numbers2:8 and his army, even his numbered men, 57,400." 
Numbers2:9 The total of the numbered men of the camp of Judah: 186,400, by their armies. They shall set out first." 
Numbers2:10 “On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben by their armies, and the leader of the sons of Reuben: Elizur the son of Shedeur," 
Numbers2:11 and his army, even his numbered men, 46,500." 
Numbers2:12 And those who camp next to him shall be the tribe of Simeon, and the leader of the sons of Simeon: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai," 
Numbers2:13 and his army, even their numbered men, 59,300." 
Numbers2:14 Then the tribe of Gad, and the leader of the sons of Gad: Eliasaph the son of Deuel," 
Numbers2:15 and his army, even their numbered men, 45,650." 
Numbers2:16 The total of the numbered men of the camp of Reuben: 151,450 by their armies. And they shall set out second." 
Numbers2:17 “Then the tent of meeting shall set out with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps; just as they camp, so they shall set out, every man in his place by their standards." 
Numbers2:18 “On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim by their armies, and the leader of the sons of Ephraim: Elishama the son of Ammihud," 
Numbers2:19 and his army, even their numbered men, 40,500." 
Numbers2:20 Next to him shall be the tribe of Manasseh, and the leader of the sons of Manasseh: Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur," 
Numbers2:21 and his army, even their numbered men, 32,200." 
Numbers2:22 Then the tribe of Benjamin, and the leader of the sons of Benjamin: Abidan the son of Gideoni," 
Numbers2:23 and his army, even their numbered men, 35,400." 
Numbers2:24 The total of the numbered men of the camp of Ephraim: 108,100, by their armies. And they shall set out third." 
Numbers2:25 “On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan by their armies, and the leader of the sons of Dan: Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai," 
Numbers2:26 and his army, even their numbered men, 62,700." 
Numbers2:27 Those who camp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher, and the leader of the sons of Asher: Pagiel the son of Ochran," 
Numbers2:28 and his army, even their numbered men, 41,500." 
Numbers2:29 Then the tribe of Naphtali, and the leader of the sons of Naphtali: Ahira the son of Enan," 
Numbers2:30 and his army, even their numbered men, 53,400." 
Numbers2:31 The total of the numbered men of the camp of Dan was 157,600. They shall set out last by their standards.”" 
Numbers2:32 These are the numbered men of the sons of Israel by their fathers’ households; the total of the numbered men of the camps by their armies, 603,550." 
Numbers2:33 The Levites, however, were not numbered among the sons of Israel, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Numbers2:34 Thus the sons of Israel did; according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so they camped by their standards, and so they set out, every one by his family according to his father’s household." 
Numbers3:1 Now these are the generations of Aaron and Moses at the time when Yahweh spoke with Moses on Mount Sinai. 
Numbers3:2 These then are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
Numbers3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the anointed priests, whom he ordained to minister as priests." 
Numbers3:4 But Nadab and Abihu died before Yahweh when they offered strange fire before Yahweh in the wilderness of Sinai; and they had no children. So Eleazar and Ithamar ministered as priests in the lifetime of their father Aaron. 
Numbers3:5 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers3:6 “Bring the tribe of Levi near and have them stand before Aaron the priest, that they may minister to him." 
Numbers3:7 And they shall keep his responsibility and the responsibility for the whole congregation before the tent of meeting, to perform the service of the tabernacle." 
Numbers3:8 They shall also keep all the furnishings of the tent of meeting, along with the responsibility of the sons of Israel, to perform the service of the tabernacle." 
Numbers3:9 You shall thus give the Levites to Aaron and to his sons; they are wholly given to him from among the sons of Israel. 
Numbers3:10 So you shall appoint Aaron and his sons that they may keep their priesthood, but the outsider who comes near shall be put to death.”" 
Numbers3:11 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers3:12 “Now, behold, I have taken the Levites from among the sons of Israel instead of every firstborn, the first offspring of the womb among the sons of Israel. So the Levites shall be Mine." 
Numbers3:13 For all the firstborn are Mine; on the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I sanctified to Myself all the firstborn in Israel, from man to beast. They shall be Mine; I am Yahweh.”" 
Numbers3:14 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying," 
Numbers3:15 “Number the sons of Levi by their fathers’ households, by their families; every male from a month old and upward you shall number.”" 
Numbers3:16 So Moses numbered them according to the word of Yahweh, just as he had been commanded." 
Numbers3:17 These then are the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon and Kohath and Merari. 
Numbers3:18 And these are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei; 
Numbers3:19 and the sons of Kohath by their families: Amram and Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel;" 
Numbers3:20 and the sons of Merari by their families: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their fathers’ households. 
Numbers3:21 Of Gershon was the family of the Libnites and the family of the Shimeites; these were the families of the Gershonites. 
Numbers3:22 Their numbered men, in the numbering of every male from a month old and upward, even their numbered men were 7,500." 
Numbers3:23 The families of the Gershonites were to camp behind the tabernacle westward," 
Numbers3:24 and the leader of the fathers’ households of the Gershonites was Eliasaph the son of Lael. 
Numbers3:25 Now the responsibility of the sons of Gershon in the tent of meeting involved the tabernacle and the tent, its covering, and the screen for the doorway of the tent of meeting," 
Numbers3:26 and the hangings of the court, and the screen for the doorway of the court which is around the tabernacle and the altar, and its cords, according to all the service concerning them." 
Numbers3:27 Of Kohath was the family of the Amramites and the family of the Izharites and the family of the Hebronites and the family of the Uzzielites; these were the families of the Kohathites. 
Numbers3:28 In the numbering of every male from a month old and upward, there were 8,600, keeping the responsibility of the sanctuary." 
Numbers3:29 The families of the sons of Kohath were to camp on the southward side of the tabernacle," 
Numbers3:30 and the leader of the fathers’ households of the Kohathite families was Elizaphan the son of Uzziel. 
Numbers3:31 Now their responsibility involved the ark, the table, the lampstand, the altars, and the utensils of the sanctuary with which they minister, and the screen, and all the service concerning them;" 
Numbers3:32 and Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest was the chief of the leaders of Levi and had the oversight of those who keep the responsibility of the sanctuary. 
Numbers3:33 Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites and the family of the Mushites; these were the families of Merari. 
Numbers3:34 And their numbered men, in the numbering of every male from a month old and upward, were 6,200." 
Numbers3:35 And the leader of the fathers’ households of the families of Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail. They were to camp on the northward side of the tabernacle. 
Numbers3:36 Now the appointed responsibility of the sons of Merari involved the boards of the tabernacle, its bars, its pillars, its bases, all its equipment, and the service concerning them," 
Numbers3:37 and the pillars around the court with their bases and their pegs and their cords. 
Numbers3:38 Now those who were to camp before the tabernacle eastward, before the tent of meeting toward the sunrise, are Moses and Aaron and his sons, keeping the responsibility of the sanctuary for the responsibility of the sons of Israel; but the outsider coming near was to be put to death." 
Numbers3:39 All the numbered men of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron numbered at the command of Yahweh by their families, every male from a month old and upward, were 22,000." 
Numbers3:40 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Number every firstborn male of the sons of Israel from a month old and upward, and make a list of their names." 
Numbers3:41 And you shall take the Levites for Me, I am Yahweh, instead of all the firstborn among the sons of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the cattle of the sons of Israel.”" 
Numbers3:42 So Moses numbered all the firstborn among the sons of Israel, just as Yahweh had commanded him;" 
Numbers3:43 and all the firstborn males by the number of names from a month old and upward, for their numbered men were 22,273." 
Numbers3:44 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers3:45 “Take the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the sons of Israel and the cattle of the Levites. And the Levites shall be Mine; I am Yahweh. 
Numbers3:46 For the redemption price of the 273 of the firstborn of the sons of Israel who are in excess beyond the Levites," 
Numbers3:47 you shall take five shekels apiece, per head; you shall take them in terms of the shekel of the sanctuary (the shekel is twenty gerahs)," 
Numbers3:48 and give the money, the redemption price of those who are in excess among them, to Aaron and to his sons.”" 
Numbers3:49 So Moses took the money of the redemption price from those who were in excess, beyond those redeemed by the Levites;" 
Numbers3:50 from the firstborn of the sons of Israel he took the money in terms of the shekel of the sanctuary, 1,365." 
Numbers3:51 Then Moses gave the money of the redemption price to Aaron and to his sons, at the command of Yahweh, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Numbers4:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying," 
Numbers4:2 “Take a census of the descendants of Kohath from among the sons of Levi, by their families, by their fathers’ households," 
Numbers4:3 from thirty years and upward, even to fifty years old, all who enter the duty of doing the work in the tent of meeting." 
Numbers4:4 This is the service of the sons of Kohath in the tent of meeting, concerning the most holy things." 
Numbers4:5 “And when the camp sets out, Aaron and his sons shall go in and they shall take down the veil of the screen and cover the ark of the testimony with it;" 
Numbers4:6 and they shall put a covering of porpoise skin on it and shall spread over it a cloth of pure blue and shall insert its poles. 
Numbers4:7 Over the table of the bread of the Presence they shall also spread a cloth of blue and put on it the dishes and the pans and the offering bowls and the jars for the drink offering, and the continual bread shall be on it." 
Numbers4:8 And they shall spread over them a cloth of scarlet material and cover the same with a covering of porpoise skin, and they shall insert its poles." 
Numbers4:9 Then they shall take a blue cloth and cover the lampstand for the light, along with its lamps and its tongs, and its trays and all its oil vessels, by which they minister in connection to it;" 
Numbers4:10 and they shall put it and all its utensils in a covering of porpoise skin and shall put it on the carrying bars. 
Numbers4:11 And over the golden altar they shall spread a blue cloth and cover it with a covering of porpoise skin and shall insert its poles; 
Numbers4:12 and they shall take all the utensils of ministry, with which they minister in the sanctuary, and put them in a blue cloth and cover them with a covering of porpoise skin and put them on the carrying bars." 
Numbers4:13 Then they shall take away the ashes from the altar and spread a purple cloth over it. 
Numbers4:14 They shall also put on it all its utensils by which they minister in connection with it: the firepans, the flesh hooks and shovels and the bowls, all the utensils of the altar; and they shall spread a cover of porpoise skin over it and insert its poles." 
Numbers4:15 When Aaron and his sons have finished covering the holy objects and all the furnishings of the sanctuary, when the camp is to set out, after that the sons of Kohath shall come to carry them, so that they will not touch the holy objects and die. These are the things in the tent of meeting which the sons of Kohath are to carry." 
Numbers4:16 “And the assignment of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest is the oil for the light and the fragrant incense and the continual grain offering and the anointing oil—the assignment of all the tabernacle and of all that is in it, with the sanctuary and its furnishings.”" 
Numbers4:17 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying," 
Numbers4:18 “Do not let the tribe of the families of the Kohathites be cut off from among the Levites. 
Numbers4:19 But do this to them that they may live and not die when they approach the most holy objects: Aaron and his sons shall go in and set each of them to his service and to his load; 
Numbers4:20 but they shall not go in to see the holy objects even for a moment, or they will die.”" 
Numbers4:21 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers4:22 “Take a census of the sons of Gershon also, by their fathers’ households, by their families;" 
Numbers4:23 from thirty years and upward to fifty years old, you shall number them; all who enter to perform the duty of performing the service in the tent of meeting." 
Numbers4:24 This is the service of the families of the Gershonites, in serving and in carrying:" 
Numbers4:25 they shall carry the curtains of the tabernacle and the tent of meeting with its covering and the covering of porpoise skin that is on top of it, and the screen for the doorway of the tent of meeting," 
Numbers4:26 and the hangings of the court, and the screen for the doorway of the gate of the court which is around the tabernacle and the altar, and their cords and all the equipment for their service; and all that is to be done, they shall perform." 
Numbers4:27 All the service of the sons of the Gershonites, in all their loads and in all their service, shall be performed at the command of Aaron and his sons; and you shall assign to them as a responsibility all their loads." 
Numbers4:28 This is the service of the families of the sons of the Gershonites in the tent of meeting, and their responsibilities shall be under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest." 
Numbers4:29 “As for the sons of Merari, you shall number them by their families, by their fathers’ households;" 
Numbers4:30 from thirty years and upward even to fifty years old, you shall number them, everyone who enters the duty of performing the service of the tent of meeting." 
Numbers4:31 Now this is the responsibility of their loads, for all their service in the tent of meeting: the boards of the tabernacle and its bars and its pillars and its bases," 
Numbers4:32 and the pillars around the court and their bases and their pegs and their cords, with all their equipment and with all their service; and you shall assign each man by name the items of the responsibility of his load." 
Numbers4:33 This is the service of the families of the sons of Merari, according to all their service in the tent of meeting, under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.”" 
Numbers4:34 So Moses and Aaron and the leaders of the congregation numbered the sons of the Kohathites by their families and by their fathers’ households," 
Numbers4:35 from thirty years and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered the duty of service in the tent of meeting." 
Numbers4:36 Their numbered men by their families were 2,750." 
Numbers4:37 These are the numbered men of the Kohathite families, everyone who was serving in the tent of meeting, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the commandment of Yahweh by the hand of Moses." 
Numbers4:38 The numbered men of the sons of Gershon by their families and by their fathers’ households," 
Numbers4:39 from thirty years and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered the duty of service in the tent of meeting," 
Numbers4:40 their numbered men by their families, by their fathers’ households, were 2,630." 
Numbers4:41 These are the numbered men of the families of the sons of Gershon, everyone who was serving in the tent of meeting, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the commandment of Yahweh." 
Numbers4:42 The numbered men of the families of the sons of Merari by their families, by their fathers’ households," 
Numbers4:43 from thirty years and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered the duty of service in the tent of meeting," 
Numbers4:44 their numbered men by their families were 3,200." 
Numbers4:45 These are the numbered men of the families of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the commandment of Yahweh by the hand of Moses." 
Numbers4:46 All the numbered men of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron and the leaders of Israel numbered, by their families and by their fathers’ households," 
Numbers4:47 from thirty years and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who could enter to perform the work of service and the service of carrying in the tent of meeting," 
Numbers4:48 their numbered men were 8,580." 
Numbers4:49 According to the word of Yahweh by the hand of Moses, they were numbered, everyone by his serving or carrying; thus these were his numbered men, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Numbers5:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers5:2 “Command the sons of Israel that they send away from the camp every leper and everyone having a discharge and everyone who is unclean because of a dead person. 
Numbers5:3 You shall send away both male and female; you shall send them outside the camp so that they will not defile their camp where I dwell in their midst.” 
Numbers5:4 And the sons of Israel did so and sent them outside the camp; just as Yahweh had spoken to Moses, thus the sons of Israel did." 
Numbers5:5 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers5:6 “Speak to the sons of Israel, ‘When a man or woman commits any of the sins of mankind, acting unfaithfully against Yahweh, and that person is guilty," 
Numbers5:7 then he shall confess his sins which he has committed, and he shall make restitution in full for his wrong and add to it one-fifth of it and give it to him whom he has wronged." 
Numbers5:8 But if the man has no kinsman redeemer to whom restitution may be made for the wrong, the restitution which is made for the wrong must go to Yahweh for the priest, besides the ram of atonement, by which atonement is made for him." 
Numbers5:9 Also every contribution pertaining to all the holy gifts of the sons of Israel, which they bring near to the priest, shall be his." 
Numbers5:10 So every man’s holy gifts shall be his; whatever any man gives to the priest, it becomes his.’”" 
Numbers5:11 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers5:12 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘If any man’s wife goes astray and is unfaithful to him," 
Numbers5:13 and a man lies sexually with her, and it is hidden from the eyes of her husband, and she is undetected; but she has defiled herself, and there is no witness against her, and she has not been caught in the act," 
Numbers5:14 if a spirit of jealousy comes over him and he is jealous of his wife and she has defiled herself, or if a spirit of jealousy comes over him and he is jealous of his wife but she has not defiled herself," 
Numbers5:15 the man shall then bring his wife to the priest and shall bring as an offering for her one-tenth of an ephah of barley meal; he shall not pour oil on it nor put frankincense on it, for it is a grain offering of jealousy, a grain offering of remembrance, a reminder of iniquity." 
Numbers5:16 ‘Then the priest shall bring her near and have her stand before Yahweh," 
Numbers5:17 and the priest shall take holy water in an earthenware vessel; and the priest shall take some of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle and put it into the water. 
Numbers5:18 The priest shall then have the woman stand before Yahweh and let the hair of the woman’s head go loose, and he shall place the grain offering of remembrance in her hands, which is the grain offering of jealousy; and in the hand of the priest is to be the water of bitterness that brings curses." 
Numbers5:19 Then the priest shall have her swear an oath and shall say to the woman, “If no man has lain with you, and if you have not gone astray into defilement, being under the authority of your husband, be free from this water of bitterness that brings curses;" 
Numbers5:20 if you, however, have gone astray, being under the authority of your husband, and if you have defiled yourself, and a man other than your husband has lain with you”" 
Numbers5:21 (then the priest shall have the woman swear with the oath of the curse, and the priest shall say to the woman), “Yahweh make you a curse and an oath among your people by Yahweh making your thigh fall away and your abdomen swell;" 
Numbers5:22 and this water that brings curses shall go into your stomach and make your abdomen swell and your thigh fall away.” And the woman shall say, “Amen. Amen.”" 
Numbers5:23 ‘The priest shall then write these curses on a scroll, and he shall wash them off into the water of bitterness." 
Numbers5:24 Then he shall make the woman drink the water of bitterness that brings curses, so that the water which brings a curse will go into her to cause bitterness." 
Numbers5:25 And the priest shall take the grain offering of jealousy from the woman’s hand, and he shall wave the grain offering before Yahweh and bring it near to the altar;" 
Numbers5:26 and the priest shall take a handful of the grain offering as its memorial offering and offer it up in smoke on the altar, and afterward he shall make the woman drink the water." 
Numbers5:27 So he will have her drink the water, and it will be that, if she has defiled herself and has been unfaithful to her husband, that the water which brings curses will go into her to cause bitterness, and her abdomen will swell and her thigh will fall away, and the woman will become a curse among her people." 
Numbers5:28 But if the woman has not defiled herself and is clean, she will then be free and conceive a seed." 
Numbers5:29 ‘This is the law of jealousy: when a wife, being under the authority of her husband, goes astray and defiles herself," 
Numbers5:30 or when a spirit of jealousy comes over a man and he is jealous of his wife, he shall then make the woman stand before Yahweh, and the priest shall apply all this law to her." 
Numbers5:31 Moreover, the man will be free from guilt, but that woman shall bear her guilt.’”" 
Numbers6:1 Again Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers6:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When a man or woman makes a special vow, the vow of a Nazirite, to dedicate himself as a Nazirite to Yahweh," 
Numbers6:3 he shall abstain as a Nazirite from wine and strong drink; he shall drink no vinegar, whether made from wine or strong drink, nor shall he drink any grape juice nor eat fresh or dried grapes." 
Numbers6:4 All the days of his Nazirite vow he shall not eat anything that is produced by the grape vine, from the seeds even to the skin." 
Numbers6:5 ‘All the days of his vow as a Nazirite no razor shall pass over his head. He shall be holy until the days are fulfilled for which he dedicated himself as a Nazirite to Yahweh; he shall let the locks of hair on his head grow long. 
Numbers6:6 ‘All the days of his dedication as a Nazirite to Yahweh he shall not go near to a dead person. 
Numbers6:7 He shall not defile himself for his father or for his mother, for his brother or for his sister, when they die, because the Nazirite vow to his God is on his head." 
Numbers6:8 All the days of his Nazirite vow he is holy to Yahweh. 
Numbers6:9 ‘But if a man dies very suddenly beside him and he defiles the head of hair during his Nazirite vow, then he shall shave his head on the day when he becomes clean; he shall shave it on the seventh day." 
Numbers6:10 Then on the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the priest, to the doorway of the tent of meeting." 
Numbers6:11 And the priest shall offer one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering and make atonement for him concerning his sin because of the dead person. And that same day he shall set apart his head as holy," 
Numbers6:12 and shall dedicate to Yahweh the days of his Nazirite vow and shall bring a male lamb a year old for a guilt offering; but the former days will be void because his Nazirite vow was defiled. 
Numbers6:13 ‘Now this is the law of the Nazirite when the days of his Nazirite vow are fulfilled: he shall bring the offering to the doorway of the tent of meeting. 
Numbers6:14 And he shall bring his offering near to Yahweh: one male lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering and one ewe-lamb a year old without blemish for a sin offering and one ram without blemish for a peace offering," 
Numbers6:15 and a basket of unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil and unleavened wafers spread with oil, along with their grain offering and their drink offering." 
Numbers6:16 Then the priest shall bring them near before Yahweh and shall offer his sin offering and his burnt offering. 
Numbers6:17 He shall also offer with the ram a sacrifice of peace offerings to Yahweh, together with the basket of unleavened cakes; the priest shall likewise offer its grain offering and its drink offering." 
Numbers6:18 The Nazirite shall then shave the head of hair for his Nazirite vow at the doorway of the tent of meeting and take the hair of his head of his Nazirite vow and put it on the fire which is under the sacrifice of peace offerings. 
Numbers6:19 And the priest shall take the ram’s shoulder when it has been boiled, and one unleavened cake out of the basket and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them on the hands of the Nazirite after he has shaved the hair of his Nazirite vow." 
Numbers6:20 Then the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before Yahweh. It is holy for the priest, together with the breast offered by waving and the thigh offered by raising up; and afterward the Nazirite may drink wine.’" 
Numbers6:21 “This is the law of the Nazirite who vows his offering to Yahweh according to his Nazirite vow, in addition to what else he can afford; according to his vow which he takes, so he shall do according to the law of his Nazirite vow.”" 
Numbers6:22 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers6:23 “Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, ‘Thus you shall bless the sons of Israel. You shall say to them:" 
Numbers6:24 Yahweh bless you, and keep you;" 
Numbers6:25 Yahweh make His face shine on you, And be gracious to you;" 
Numbers6:26 Yahweh lift up His face on you, And give you peace.’" 
Numbers6:27 So they shall invoke My name on the sons of Israel, and I then will bless them.”" 
Numbers7:1 Now it happened on the day that Moses had finished setting up the tabernacle, that he anointed it and set it apart as holy with all its furnishings and the altar and all its utensils; he anointed them and set them apart as holy." 
Numbers7:2 Then the leaders of Israel, the heads of their fathers’ households, brought an offering near (they were the leaders of the tribes; they were the ones who were over the numbered men)." 
Numbers7:3 And they brought their offering before Yahweh, six covered carts and twelve oxen, a cart for every two of the leaders and an ox for each one, and they brought them near before the tabernacle." 
Numbers7:4 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers7:5 “Accept these things from them, that they may be used in the service of the tent of meeting, and you shall give them to the Levites, to each man according to his service.”" 
Numbers7:6 So Moses took the carts and the oxen and gave them to the Levites. 
Numbers7:7 Two carts and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their service," 
Numbers7:8 and four carts and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their service, under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest." 
Numbers7:9 But he did not give any to the sons of Kohath because theirs was the service of the holy objects, which they carried on the shoulder." 
Numbers7:10 And the leaders brought near the dedication offering for the altar when it was anointed, so the leaders brought their offering near before the altar." 
Numbers7:11 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Let them bring their offering near, one leader each day, for the dedication of the altar.”" 
Numbers7:12 Now the one who brought his offering near on the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah;" 
Numbers7:13 and his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:14 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:15 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:16 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:17 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab." 
Numbers7:18 On the second day Nethanel the son of Zuar, leader of Issachar, brought an offering near;" 
Numbers7:19 he brought near as his offering one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:20 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:21 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:22 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:23 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Nethanel the son of Zuar." 
Numbers7:24 On the third day it was Eliab the son of Helon, leader of the sons of Zebulun;" 
Numbers7:25 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:26 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:27 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:28 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:29 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon." 
Numbers7:30 On the fourth day it was Elizur the son of Shedeur, leader of the sons of Reuben;" 
Numbers7:31 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:32 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:33 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:34 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:35 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur." 
Numbers7:36 On the fifth day it was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, leader of the sons of Simeon;" 
Numbers7:37 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:38 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:39 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:40 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:41 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai." 
Numbers7:42 On the sixth day it was Eliasaph the son of Deuel, leader of the sons of Gad;" 
Numbers7:43 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:44 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:45 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:46 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:47 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel." 
Numbers7:48 On the seventh day it was Elishama the son of Ammihud, leader of the sons of Ephraim;" 
Numbers7:49 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:50 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:51 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:52 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:53 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud." 
Numbers7:54 On the eighth day it was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, leader of the sons of Manasseh;" 
Numbers7:55 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:56 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:57 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:58 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:59 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur." 
Numbers7:60 On the ninth day it was Abidan the son of Gideoni, leader of the sons of Benjamin;" 
Numbers7:61 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:62 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:63 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:64 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:65 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni." 
Numbers7:66 On the tenth day it was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, leader of the sons of Dan;" 
Numbers7:67 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:68 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:69 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:70 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:71 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers7:72 On the eleventh day it was Pagiel the son of Ochran, leader of the sons of Asher;" 
Numbers7:73 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:74 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:75 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:76 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:77 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ochran." 
Numbers7:78 On the twelfth day it was Ahira the son of Enan, leader of the sons of Naphtali;" 
Numbers7:79 his offering was one silver dish whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver bowl of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;" 
Numbers7:80 one gold pan of 10 shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:81 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb one year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:82 one male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:83 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs one year old. This was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan." 
Numbers7:84 This was the dedication offering for the altar from the leaders of Israel when it was anointed: twelve silver dishes, twelve silver bowls, twelve gold pans," 
Numbers7:85 each silver dish weighing 130 shekels and each bowl 70; all the silver of the utensils was 2,400 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary;" 
Numbers7:86 the twelve gold pans, full of incense, weighing 10 shekels apiece, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, all the gold of the pans 120 shekels;" 
Numbers7:87 all the oxen for the burnt offering twelve bulls, all the rams twelve, the male lambs one year old with their grain offering twelve, and the male goats for a sin offering twelve;" 
Numbers7:88 and all the oxen for the sacrifice of peace offerings 24 bulls, all the rams 60, the male goats 60, the male lambs one year old 60. This was the dedication offering for the altar after it was anointed." 
Numbers7:89 Now when Moses went into the tent of meeting to speak with Him, he heard the voice speaking to him from above the mercy seat that was on the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim, so He spoke to him." 
Numbers8:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers8:2 “Speak to Aaron and say to him, ‘When you mount the lamps, the seven lamps will give light in the front of the lampstand.’”" 
Numbers8:3 Aaron therefore did so; he mounted its lamps at the front of the lampstand, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Numbers8:4 Now this was the workmanship of the lampstand, hammered work of gold; from its base to its flowers it was hammered work; according to the pattern which Yahweh had shown Moses, so he made the lampstand." 
Numbers8:5 Again Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers8:6 “Take the Levites from among the sons of Israel and cleanse them. 
Numbers8:7 Thus you shall do to them, for their cleansing: sprinkle purifying water on them, and let them use a razor over their whole body and wash their clothes, and they will be clean." 
Numbers8:8 Then let them take a bull from the herd with its grain offering, fine flour mixed with oil; and a second bull from the herd you shall take for a sin offering." 
Numbers8:9 So you shall bring the Levites near before the tent of meeting. You shall also assemble the whole congregation of the sons of Israel," 
Numbers8:10 and bring the Levites near before Yahweh; and the sons of Israel shall lay their hands on the Levites. 
Numbers8:11 Aaron then shall present the Levites before Yahweh as a wave offering from the sons of Israel, that they may be qualified to perform the service of Yahweh." 
Numbers8:12 Now the Levites shall lay their hands on the heads of the bulls; then offer the one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering to Yahweh, to make atonement for the Levites." 
Numbers8:13 And you shall have the Levites stand before Aaron and before his sons so as to present them as a wave offering to Yahweh. 
Numbers8:14 “Thus you shall separate the Levites from among the sons of Israel, and the Levites shall be Mine." 
Numbers8:15 Then after that the Levites may go in to serve the tent of meeting. But you shall cleanse them and present them as a wave offering; 
Numbers8:16 for they are wholly given to Me from among the sons of Israel. I have taken them for Myself instead of every first issue of the womb, the firstborn of all the sons of Israel." 
Numbers8:17 For every firstborn among the sons of Israel is Mine, among the men and among the animals; on the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt I sanctified them for Myself." 
Numbers8:18 But I have taken the Levites instead of every firstborn among the sons of Israel. 
Numbers8:19 And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons from among the sons of Israel, to perform the service of the sons of Israel at the tent of meeting and to make atonement on behalf of the sons of Israel, so that there will be no plague among the sons of Israel by their coming near to the sanctuary.”" 
Numbers8:20 Thus did Moses and Aaron and all the congregation of the sons of Israel to the Levites; according to all that Yahweh had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so the sons of Israel did to them." 
Numbers8:21 The Levites, too, purified themselves from sin and washed their clothes; and Aaron presented them as a wave offering before Yahweh. Aaron also made atonement for them to cleanse them." 
Numbers8:22 Then after that the Levites went in to perform their service in the tent of meeting before Aaron and before his sons; just as Yahweh had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so they did to them." 
Numbers8:23 Now Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers8:24 “This is what applies to the Levites: from twenty-five years old and upward they shall enter to perform their duty in the service of the tent of meeting. 
Numbers8:25 But at the age of fifty years they shall retire from their duty in the service and not serve anymore. 
Numbers8:26 They may, however, minister to their brothers in the tent of meeting in order to keep up their responsibility, but they themselves shall perform no service. Thus you shall deal with the Levites concerning their responsibilities.”" 
Numbers9:1 Thus Yahweh spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying," 
Numbers9:2 “Now, let the sons of Israel observe the Passover at its appointed time." 
Numbers9:3 On the fourteenth day of this month, at twilight, you shall observe it at its appointed time; you shall observe it according to all its statutes and according to all its judgments.”" 
Numbers9:4 So Moses told the sons of Israel to celebrate the Passover. 
Numbers9:5 And they celebrated the Passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at twilight, in the wilderness of Sinai; according to all that Yahweh had commanded Moses, so the sons of Israel did." 
Numbers9:6 But there were some men who were unclean because of a dead person, so that they could not celebrate Passover on that day; so they came near before Moses and Aaron on that day." 
Numbers9:7 And those men said to him, “We are unclean because of a dead person. But why are we restrained from bringing near the offering of Yahweh at its appointed time among the sons of Israel?”" 
Numbers9:8 Moses therefore said to them, “Wait, and I will listen to what Yahweh will command concerning you.”" 
Numbers9:9 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers9:10 “Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘If any one of you or of your generations becomes unclean because of a dead person, or is on a distant journey, he may, however, celebrate the Passover to Yahweh." 
Numbers9:11 In the second month on the fourteenth day at twilight, they shall observe it; they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs." 
Numbers9:12 They shall leave none of it until morning nor break a bone of it; according to all the statute of the Passover they shall celebrate it. 
Numbers9:13 But the man who is clean and is not on a journey, and yet neglects to celebrate the Passover, that person shall then be cut off from his people, for he did not bring near the offering of Yahweh at its appointed time. That man will bear his sin." 
Numbers9:14 If a sojourner sojourns among you and celebrates the Passover to Yahweh, according to the statute of the Passover and according to its judgment, so he shall do; you shall have one statute, both for the sojourner and for the native of the land.’”" 
Numbers9:15 Now on the day that the tabernacle was erected the cloud covered the tabernacle, the tent of the testimony, and in the evening it was like the appearance of fire over the tabernacle until morning." 
Numbers9:16 So it was continuously; the cloud would cover it by day, and the appearance of fire by night." 
Numbers9:17 Now whenever the cloud would go up from over the tent, afterward the sons of Israel would then set out; and in the place where the cloud settled down, there the sons of Israel would camp." 
Numbers9:18 At the command of Yahweh the sons of Israel would set out, and at the command of Yahweh they would camp; as long as the cloud settled over the tabernacle, they remained camped." 
Numbers9:19 Even when the cloud lingered over the tabernacle for many days, the sons of Israel would keep the charge of Yahweh and not set out." 
Numbers9:20 If sometimes the cloud remained a few days over the tabernacle, according to the command of Yahweh they remained camped. Then according to the command of Yahweh they set out." 
Numbers9:21 If sometimes the cloud remained from evening until morning, when the cloud was lifted in the morning, they would move out; or if it remained in the daytime and at night, whenever the cloud was lifted, they would set out." 
Numbers9:22 Whether it was two days or a month or a year that the cloud lingered over the tabernacle, dwelling above it, the sons of Israel remained camped and did not set out; but when it was lifted, they did set out." 
Numbers9:23 At the command of Yahweh they camped, and at the command of Yahweh they set out; they kept the charge of Yahweh, according to the command of Yahweh by the hand of Moses." 
Numbers10:1 Yahweh spoke further to Moses, saying," 
Numbers10:2 “Make yourself two trumpets of silver, of hammered work you shall make them; and you shall use them for summoning the congregation and for having the camps set out." 
Numbers10:3 So both will be blown, and all the congregation shall gather themselves to you at the doorway of the tent of meeting." 
Numbers10:4 Yet if only one is blown, then the leaders, the heads of the divisions of Israel, shall assemble before you." 
Numbers10:5 But when you blow an alarm, the camps that are pitched on the east side shall set out." 
Numbers10:6 Then you will blow an alarm the second time, and the camps that are pitched on the south side shall set out; an alarm is to be blown for them to set out." 
Numbers10:7 When convening the assembly, however, you shall blow without sounding an alarm." 
Numbers10:8 The priestly sons of Aaron, moreover, shall blow the trumpets; and this shall be for you a perpetual statute throughout your generations." 
Numbers10:9 Now when you go to war in your land against the adversary who attacks you, then you shall sound an alarm with the trumpets, that you may be remembered before Yahweh your God and be saved from your enemies." 
Numbers10:10 Also in the day of your gladness and in your appointed feasts, and on the first days of your months, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings; and they shall be as a remembrance of you before your God. I am Yahweh your God.”" 
Numbers10:11 Now it happened in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth of the month, that the cloud was lifted from over the tabernacle of the testimony;" 
Numbers10:12 and the sons of Israel set out on their journeys from the wilderness of Sinai. Then the cloud settled down in the wilderness of Paran. 
Numbers10:13 So they moved out for the first time according to the command of Yahweh by the hand of Moses. 
Numbers10:14 And the standard of the camp of the sons of Judah, according to their armies, set out first, with Nahshon the son of Amminadab, over its army," 
Numbers10:15 and Nethanel the son of Zuar, over the tribal army of the sons of Issachar;" 
Numbers10:16 and Eliab the son of Helon over the tribal army of the sons of Zebulun. 
Numbers10:17 Then the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari, who were carrying the tabernacle, set out." 
Numbers10:18 Next the standard of the camp of Reuben, according to their armies, set out with Elizur the son of Shedeur, over its army," 
Numbers10:19 and Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai over the tribal army of the sons of Simeon," 
Numbers10:20 and Eliasaph the son of Deuel over the tribal army of the sons of Gad. 
Numbers10:21 Then the Kohathites set out, carrying the holy objects; and the tabernacle was set up before their arrival." 
Numbers10:22 Next the standard of the camp of the sons of Ephraim, according to their armies, set out, with Elishama the son of Ammihud over its army," 
Numbers10:23 and Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur over the tribal army of the sons of Manasseh; 
Numbers10:24 and Abidan the son of Gideoni over the tribal army of the sons of Benjamin. 
Numbers10:25 Then the standard of the camp of the sons of Dan, according to their armies, which formed the rear guard for all the camps, set out, with Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai over its army," 
Numbers10:26 and Pagiel the son of Ochran over the tribal army of the sons of Asher; 
Numbers10:27 and Ahira the son of Enan over the tribal army of the sons of Naphtali. 
Numbers10:28 This was the order of march of the sons of Israel by their armies as they set out. 
Numbers10:29 Then Moses said to Hobab the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses’ father-in-law, “We are setting out to the place of which Yahweh said, ‘I will give it to you’; come with us and we will do you good, for Yahweh has promised good concerning Israel.”" 
Numbers10:30 But he said to him, “I will not come, but rather will go to my own land and kin.”" 
Numbers10:31 Then he said, “Please do not leave us, inasmuch as you know where we should camp in the wilderness, and you will be as eyes for us." 
Numbers10:32 So it will be, if you go with us, that whatever good Yahweh does for us, we will do for you.”" 
Numbers10:33 Thus they set out from the mount of Yahweh three days’ journey, with the ark of the covenant of Yahweh journeying in front of them for the three days, to spy out a resting place for them." 
Numbers10:34 Now the cloud of Yahweh was over them by day when they set out from the camp. 
Numbers10:35 Then it happened when the ark set out that Moses said, “Rise up, O Yahweh! And let Your enemies be scattered, And let those who hate You flee before You.”" 
Numbers10:36 And when it came to rest, he said, “Return, O Yahweh, To the myriad thousands of Israel.”" 
Numbers11:1 Now the people became like those who complain of calamity in the ears of Yahweh. And Yahweh heard it and His anger was kindled, and the fire of Yahweh burned among them and consumed some of the outskirts of the camp." 
Numbers11:2 The people therefore cried out to Moses, and Moses prayed to Yahweh, and the fire died out." 
Numbers11:3 So the name of that place was called Taberah because the fire of Yahweh burned among them. 
Numbers11:4 And the rabble who were among them had greedy desires; and also the sons of Israel wept again and said, “Who will give us meat to eat?" 
Numbers11:5 We remember the fish which we used to eat free in Egypt, the cucumbers and the melons and the leeks and the onions and the garlic," 
Numbers11:6 but now our appetite is dried up. There is nothing at all to look at except this manna.” 
Numbers11:7 Now the manna was like coriander seed, and its appearance like that of bdellium." 
Numbers11:8 The people would go about and gather it and grind it between two millstones or beat it in the mortar, and boil it in the pot and make cakes with it; and its taste was as the taste of cakes baked with oil." 
Numbers11:9 And when the dew fell on the camp at night, the manna would fall with it." 
Numbers11:10 Now Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, each man at the doorway of his tent; and the anger of Yahweh was kindled greatly, and it was evil in the sight of Moses." 
Numbers11:11 So Moses said to Yahweh, “Why have You allowed this evil toward Your slave? And why have I not found favor in Your sight, that You have laid the burden of all this people on me?" 
Numbers11:12 Was it I who conceived all this people? Was it I who gave birth to them, that You should say to me, ‘Carry them in your bosom as a nurse carries a nursing baby, to the land which You swore to their fathers’?" 
Numbers11:13 Where am I to get meat to give to all this people? For they weep before me, saying, ‘Give us meat that we may eat!’" 
Numbers11:14 I alone am not able to carry all this people because it is too heavy for me. 
Numbers11:15 So if You are going to deal thus with me, please kill me at once, if I have found favor in Your sight, and do not let me see my wretchedness.”" 
Numbers11:16 Yahweh therefore said to Moses, “Gather for Me seventy men from the elders of Israel, whom you know to be the elders of the people and their officers, and take them to the tent of meeting, and let them take their stand there with you." 
Numbers11:17 Then I will come down and speak with you there, and I will take of the Spirit who is upon you, and will put Him upon them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with you, so that you will not bear it all alone." 
Numbers11:18 And say to the people, ‘Set yourselves apart as holy for tomorrow, and you shall eat meat; for you have wept in the ears of Yahweh, saying, “Oh that someone would give us meat to eat! For it was good for us in Egypt.” Therefore Yahweh will give you meat, and you shall eat." 
Numbers11:19 You shall eat, not one day, nor two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days," 
Numbers11:20 but a whole month, until it comes out of your nostrils and becomes loathsome to you; because you have rejected Yahweh who is among you and have wept before Him, saying, “Why did we ever go out from Egypt?”’”" 
Numbers11:21 But Moses said, “The people, among whom I am, are 600,000 on foot; yet You have said, ‘I will give them meat, so that they may eat for a whole month.’" 
Numbers11:22 Should flocks and herds be slaughtered for them, to be sufficient for them? Or should all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to be sufficient for them?”" 
Numbers11:23 And Yahweh said to Moses, “Is Yahweh’s power limited? Now you shall see whether My word will happen for you or not.”" 
Numbers11:24 So Moses went out and told the people the words of Yahweh. Also, he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people and had them stand around the tent." 
Numbers11:25 Then Yahweh came down in the cloud and spoke to him; and He took of the Spirit who was upon him and placed Him upon the seventy elders. And when the Spirit rested upon them, they prophesied. But they did not do it again." 
Numbers11:26 But two men had remained in the camp; the name of one was Eldad and the name of the other Medad. And the Spirit rested upon them (now they were among those who had been registered, but had not gone out to the tent), and they prophesied in the camp." 
Numbers11:27 So a young man ran and told Moses and said, “Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp.”" 
Numbers11:28 Then Joshua the son of Nun, the attendant of Moses from his youth, said, “Moses, my lord, restrain them.”" 
Numbers11:28 Then Joshua the son of Nun, the attendant of Moses from his youth, said, “Moses, my lord, restrain them.”" 
Numbers11:29 But Moses said to him, “Are you jealous for my sake? Would that all the people of Yahweh were prophets, that Yahweh would put His Spirit upon them!”" 
Numbers11:30 Then Moses returned to the camp, both he and the elders of Israel." 
Numbers11:31 Now there went forth a wind from Yahweh, and it brought quail from the sea, and let them fall beside the camp, about a day’s journey on this side and a day’s journey on the other side, all around the camp and about two cubits over the surface of the ground." 
Numbers11:32 And the people spent all day and all night and all the next day, and gathered the quail (he who gathered least gathered ten homers), and they spread them out for themselves all around the camp." 
Numbers11:33 While the meat was still between their teeth, before it was chewed, the anger of Yahweh was kindled against the people, and Yahweh struck the people with a very severe plague." 
Numbers11:34 So the name of that place was called Kibroth-hattaavah because there they buried the people who had been greedy. 
Numbers11:35 From Kibroth-hattaavah the people set out for Hazeroth, and they remained at Hazeroth." 
Numbers12:1 Then Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Cushite woman whom he had taken as a wife (for he had taken a Cushite woman); 
Numbers12:2 and they said, “Has Yahweh indeed spoken only through Moses? Has He not spoken through us as well?” And Yahweh heard it." 
Numbers12:3 (Now the man Moses was very humble, more than any man who was on the face of the earth.)" 
Numbers12:4 Suddenly Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron and to Miriam, “You three come out to the tent of meeting.” So the three of them came out." 
Numbers12:5 Then Yahweh came down in a pillar of cloud and stood at the doorway of the tent, and He called Aaron and Miriam. And then both came forward," 
Numbers12:6 and He said, “Hear now My words: If there is a prophet among you, I, Yahweh, shall make Myself known to him in a vision. I shall speak with him in a dream." 
Numbers12:7 Not so, with My servant Moses, He is faithful in all My household;" 
Numbers12:8 With him I speak mouth to mouth, Indeed clearly, and not in riddles, And he beholds the form of Yahweh. Why then were you not afraid To speak against My servant, against Moses?”" 
Numbers12:9 So the anger of Yahweh burned against them, and He went away." 
Numbers12:10 But the cloud withdrew from over the tent, and behold, Miriam was leprous, as white as snow. And Aaron turned toward Miriam, and behold, she was leprous." 
Numbers12:11 Then Aaron said to Moses, “Oh, my lord, I beg you, do not place this sin on us, in which we have acted foolishly and in which we have sinned." 
Numbers12:12 Oh, do not let her be like one dead, whose flesh is half eaten away when he comes from his mother’s womb!”" 
Numbers12:13 And Moses cried out to Yahweh, saying, “O God, heal her, I pray!”" 
Numbers12:14 But Yahweh said to Moses, “If her father had but spit in her face, would she not bear her dishonor for seven days? Let her be shut up for seven days outside the camp, and afterward she may be received again.”" 
Numbers12:15 So Miriam was shut up outside the camp for seven days, and the people did not set out until Miriam was received again." 
Numbers12:16 Afterward, however, the people set out from Hazeroth and camped in the wilderness of Paran." 
Numbers13:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses saying," 
Numbers13:2 “Send out for yourself men so that they may spy out the land of Canaan, which I am going to give to the sons of Israel; you shall send a man from each of their fathers’ tribes, every one a leader among them.”" 
Numbers13:3 So Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran at the command of Yahweh, all of them men who were heads of the sons of Israel." 
Numbers13:4 These then were their names: from the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur;" 
Numbers13:5 from the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori;" 
Numbers13:6 from the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh;" 
Numbers13:7 from the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph;" 
Numbers13:8 from the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun;" 
Numbers13:9 from the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu;" 
Numbers13:10 from the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi;" 
Numbers13:11 from the tribe of Joseph, from the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi;" 
Numbers13:12 from the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli;" 
Numbers13:13 from the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael;" 
Numbers13:14 from the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi;" 
Numbers13:15 from the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi." 
Numbers13:16 These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land; but Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun, Joshua." 
Numbers13:16 These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land; but Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun, Joshua." 
Numbers13:17 So Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan and said to them, “Go up there into the Negev; then go up into the hill country." 
Numbers13:18 And see what the land is like, and whether the people who live in it are strong or weak, whether they are few or many." 
Numbers13:19 And how is the land in which they live, is it good or bad? And how are the cities in which they live, are they like open camps or with fortifications?" 
Numbers13:20 And how is the land, is it fat or lean? Are there trees in it or not? Make an effort then to get some of the fruit of the land.” Now the time was the time of the first ripe grapes." 
Numbers13:21 So they went up and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin as far as Rehob, at Lebo-hamath." 
Numbers13:22 And they had gone up into the Negev and came to Hebron where Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the descendants of Anak were. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)" 
Numbers13:23 Then they came to the valley of Eshcol and from there cut down a branch with a single cluster of grapes; and they carried it on a pole between two men with some of the pomegranates and the figs. 
Numbers13:24 That place was called the valley of Eshcol, because of the cluster which the sons of Israel cut down from there." 
Numbers13:25 Then they returned from spying out the land, at the end of forty days," 
Numbers13:26 and went and came to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation of the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Paran, at Kadesh; and they brought back word to them and to all the congregation and showed them the fruit of the land." 
Numbers13:27 Thus they recounted to him and said, “We went in to the land where you sent us; and it certainly does flow with milk and honey, and this is its fruit." 
Numbers13:28 Nevertheless, the people who live in the land are strong, and the cities are fortified and very large; and moreover, we saw the descendants of Anak there." 
Numbers13:29 Amalek is living in the land of the Negev and the Hittites and the Jebusites and the Amorites are living in the hill country, and the Canaanites are living by the sea and by the side of the Jordan.”" 
Numbers13:30 Then Caleb quieted the people before Moses and said, “We should by all means go up and take possession of it, for we are surely able to overcome it.”" 
Numbers13:31 But the men who had gone up with him said, “We are not able to go up against the people, for they are too strong for us.”" 
Numbers13:32 So they gave out to the sons of Israel a bad report of the land which they had spied out, saying, “The land, which we have passed through to spy out on, is a land that devours its inhabitants; and all the people whom we saw in it are men of great size." 
Numbers13:33 There also we saw the Nephilim (the sons of Anak are part of the Nephilim); and we became like grasshoppers in our own sight, and so we were in their sight.”" 
Numbers14:1 Then all the congregation lifted up their voices and cried, and the people wept that night." 
Numbers14:2 And all the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron; and the whole congregation said to them, “Would that we had died in the land of Egypt! Or would that we had died in this wilderness!" 
Numbers14:3 And why is Yahweh bringing us into this land, to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will become plunder; would it not be better for us to return to Egypt?”" 
Numbers14:4 So they said to one another, “Let us appoint a leader and return to Egypt.”" 
Numbers14:5 Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces in the presence of all the assembly of the congregation of the sons of Israel. 
Numbers14:6 And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, of those who had spied out the land, tore their clothes;" 
Numbers14:6 And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, of those who had spied out the land, tore their clothes;" 
Numbers14:7 and they spoke to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, saying, “The land which we passed through to spy out is an exceedingly good land." 
Numbers14:8 If Yahweh is pleased with us, then He will bring us into this land and give it to us—a land which flows with milk and honey." 
Numbers14:9 But as for you, only do not rebel against Yahweh; and do not fear the people of the land, for they are our bread. Their protection has been removed from them, and Yahweh is with us; do not fear them.”" 
Numbers14:10 But all the congregation said to stone them with stones. Then the glory of Yahweh appeared in the tent of meeting to all the sons of Israel. 
Numbers14:11 Yahweh said to Moses, “How long will this people spurn Me? And how long will they not believe in Me, despite all the signs which I have done in their midst?" 
Numbers14:12 I will strike them with pestilence and dispossess them, and I will make you into a nation greater and mightier than they.”" 
Numbers14:13 But Moses said to Yahweh, “Then the Egyptians will hear of it, for by Your power You brought up this people from their midst," 
Numbers14:14 and they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land. They have heard that You, O Yahweh, are in the midst of this people, for You, O Yahweh, are seen eye to eye, while Your cloud stands over them; and You go before them in a pillar of cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by night." 
Numbers14:15 Now if You put this people to death as one man, then the nations who have heard of Your fame will say," 
Numbers14:16 ‘Because Yahweh was not able to bring this people into the land which He swore to them, therefore He slaughtered them in the wilderness.’" 
Numbers14:17 So now, I pray, let the power of the Lord be great, just as You have declared," 
Numbers14:18 ‘Yahweh is slow to anger and abundant in lovingkindness, forgiving iniquity and transgression; but He will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generations.’" 
Numbers14:19 Pardon, I pray, the iniquity of this people according to the greatness of Your lovingkindness, just as You also have forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now.”" 
Numbers14:20 So Yahweh said, “I have pardoned them according to your word;" 
Numbers14:21 but indeed, as I live, all the earth will be filled with the glory of Yahweh." 
Numbers14:22 Surely all the men who have seen My glory and My signs which I have done in Egypt and in the wilderness, yet have put Me to the test these ten times and have not listened to My voice," 
Numbers14:23 shall by no means see the land which I swore to their fathers, nor shall any of those who spurned Me see it." 
Numbers14:24 But My servant Caleb, because he has had a different spirit and has followed Me fully, I will bring into the land which he entered, and his seed shall take possession of it." 
Numbers14:25 Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites live in the valleys; turn tomorrow and set out to the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea.” 
Numbers14:26 Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying," 
Numbers14:27 “How long shall I bear with this evil congregation who are grumbling against Me? I have heard the complaints of the sons of Israel, which they are making against Me." 
Numbers14:28 Say to them, ‘As I live,’ declares Yahweh, ‘just as you have spoken in My hearing, so I will surely do to you;" 
Numbers14:29 your corpses will fall in this wilderness, even all your numbered men, according to your complete number from twenty years old and upward, who have grumbled against Me." 
Numbers14:30 Surely you shall not come into the land in which I swore to make you dwell, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun." 
Numbers14:30 Surely you shall not come into the land in which I swore to make you dwell, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun." 
Numbers14:31 Your little ones, however, who you said would become plunder—I will bring them in, so that they will know the land which you have rejected." 
Numbers14:32 But as for you, your corpses will fall in this wilderness." 
Numbers14:33 And your sons shall be shepherds for forty years in the wilderness, and they will suffer for your unfaithfulness, until your corpses come to an end in the wilderness." 
Numbers14:34 According to the number of days which you spied out the land, forty days, for every day you shall bear your guilt a year, even forty years, and you will know My opposition." 
Numbers14:35 I, Yahweh, have spoken, surely this I will do to all this evil congregation who are gathered together against Me. In this wilderness they shall come to an end, and there they will die.’”" 
Numbers14:36 As for the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land and who returned and made all the congregation grumble against him by bringing out a bad report concerning the land," 
Numbers14:37 even those men who brought out the very bad report of the land died by a plague before Yahweh. 
Numbers14:38 But Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh remained alive out of those men who went to spy out the land. 
Numbers14:38 But Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh remained alive out of those men who went to spy out the land. 
Numbers14:39 Then Moses spoke these words to all the sons of Israel, and the people mourned greatly." 
Numbers14:40 In the morning, however, they rose up early and went up to the ridge of the hill country, saying, “Here we are; we will go up to the place which Yahweh has promised because we have indeed sinned.”" 
Numbers14:41 But Moses said, “Why then do you trespass against the command of Yahweh, when it will not succeed?" 
Numbers14:42 Do not go up, for Yahweh is not among you, so that you are not defeated before your enemies." 
Numbers14:43 For the Amalekites and the Canaanites will be there in front of you, and you will fall by the sword, inasmuch as you have turned back from following Yahweh. And Yahweh will not be with you.”" 
Numbers14:44 But they went up heedlessly to the ridge of the hill country; neither the ark of the covenant of Yahweh nor Moses moved from the camp. 
Numbers14:45 Then the Amalekites and the Canaanites who lived in that hill country came down, and struck them and beat them down as far as Hormah." 
Numbers15:1 Now Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers15:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When you enter the land of your places of habitation, which I am going to give you," 
Numbers15:3 then make an offering by fire to Yahweh, a burnt offering or a sacrifice to fulfill a special vow, or as a freewill offering or in your appointed times, to make a soothing aroma to Yahweh, from the herd or from the flock." 
Numbers15:4 And the one who brings his offering near shall bring near to Yahweh a grain offering of one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with one-fourth of a hin of oil," 
Numbers15:5 and you shall prepare wine for the drink offering, one-fourth of a hin, with the burnt offering or for the sacrifice, for each lamb." 
Numbers15:6 Or for a ram you shall prepare as a grain offering two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with one-third of a hin of oil; 
Numbers15:7 and for the drink offering you shall bring near one-third of a hin of wine as a soothing aroma to Yahweh. 
Numbers15:8 And when you prepare a bull from the herd as a burnt offering or a sacrifice, to fulfill a special vow, or for peace offerings to Yahweh," 
Numbers15:9 then you shall bring near with the bull from the herd a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with one-half a hin of oil; 
Numbers15:10 and you shall bring near as the drink offering one-half a hin of wine as an offering by fire, as a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Numbers15:11 ‘Thus it shall be done for each ox, or for each ram, or for each of the male lambs, or of the goats." 
Numbers15:12 According to the number that you prepare, so you shall do for everyone according to their number." 
Numbers15:13 All who are native shall do these things in this manner, in bringing near an offering by fire, as a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Numbers15:14 And if a sojourner sojourns with you, or one who may be among you throughout your generations, and he offers an offering by fire as a soothing aroma to Yahweh, just as you do so he shall do." 
Numbers15:15 As for the assembly, there shall be one statute for you and for the sojourner who sojourns with you, a perpetual statute throughout your generations; as you are, so shall the sojourner be before Yahweh." 
Numbers15:16 There shall be one law and one judgment for you and for the sojourner who sojourns with you.’” 
Numbers15:17 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers15:18 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When you enter the land where I am going to bring you," 
Numbers15:19 then it shall be, that when you eat of the food of the land, you shall raise up a contribution offering to Yahweh." 
Numbers15:20 Of the first of your dough you shall raise up a cake as a contribution offering; as the contribution offering of the threshing floor, so you shall raise it up." 
Numbers15:21 From the first of your dough you shall give to Yahweh a contribution offering throughout your generations. 
Numbers15:22 ‘But when you unintentionally fail and do not observe all these commandments, which Yahweh has spoken to Moses," 
Numbers15:23 even all that Yahweh has commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day when Yahweh commanded and onward throughout your generations," 
Numbers15:24 then it will be, if it is done unintentionally, hidden from the sight of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one bull from the herd for a burnt offering as a soothing aroma to Yahweh, with its grain offering and its drink offering, according to the legal judgment, and one male goat for a sin offering." 
Numbers15:25 Then the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and they will be pardoned; for it was an error, and they have brought their offering, an offering by fire to Yahweh, and their sin offering before Yahweh, for their error." 
Numbers15:26 So all the congregation of the sons of Israel will be pardoned, with the sojourner who sojourns among them, for it happened to all the people through error." 
Numbers15:27 ‘Also if one person sins unintentionally, then he shall bring near a one year old female goat for a sin offering." 
Numbers15:28 And the priest shall make atonement before Yahweh for the person who goes astray when he sins unintentionally, making atonement for him that he may be pardoned." 
Numbers15:29 You shall have one law for him who does anything unintentionally, for him who is native among the sons of Israel and for the sojourner who sojourns among them." 
Numbers15:30 But the person who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native or a sojourner, that one is blaspheming Yahweh; and that person shall be cut off from among his people." 
Numbers15:31 Because he has despised the word of Yahweh and has broken His commandment, that person shall be completely cut off; his guilt will be on him.’”" 
Numbers15:32 Now the sons of Israel were in the wilderness, and they found a man gathering wood on the sabbath day." 
Numbers15:33 And those who found him gathering wood brought him near to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation; 
Numbers15:34 and they put him in custody because it had not been declared what should be done to him. 
Numbers15:35 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “The man shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall stone him with stones outside the camp.”" 
Numbers15:36 So all the congregation brought him outside the camp and stoned him to death with stones, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Numbers15:37 Yahweh also spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers15:38 “Speak to the sons of Israel, and tell them that they shall make for themselves tassels on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and that they shall put on the tassel of each corner a cord of blue." 
Numbers15:39 And it shall be a tassel for you to look at and remember all the commandments of Yahweh, so as to do them and not follow after your own heart and your own eyes, after which you played the harlot," 
Numbers15:40 so that you may remember to do all My commandments and be holy to your God. 
Numbers15:41 I am Yahweh your God who brought you out from the land of Egypt to be your God; I am Yahweh your God.” 
Numbers16:1 Now Korah the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, with Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took others," 
Numbers16:2 and they rose up before Moses, together with some of the sons of Israel, 250 leaders of the congregation, those called upon by the assembly, men of renown." 
Numbers16:3 Then they assembled together against Moses and Aaron, and said to them, “You have gone far enough, for all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and Yahweh is in their midst; so why do you exalt yourselves above the assembly of Yahweh?”" 
Numbers16:4 And Moses heard this and fell on his face; 
Numbers16:5 and he spoke to Korah and all his congregation, saying, “Tomorrow morning Yahweh will show who is His, and who is holy, and will bring him near to Himself; even the one whom He will choose, He will bring near to Himself." 
Numbers16:6 Do this: take censers for yourselves, Korah and all your congregation," 
Numbers16:7 and put fire in them, and lay incense upon them in the presence of Yahweh tomorrow; and the man whom Yahweh chooses shall be the one who is holy. You have gone far enough, you sons of Levi!”" 
Numbers16:8 Then Moses said to Korah, “Hear now, you sons of Levi," 
Numbers16:9 is it not enough for you that the God of Israel has separated you from the rest of the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to Himself, to perform the service of the tabernacle of Yahweh, and to stand before the congregation to minister to them;" 
Numbers16:10 and that He has brought you near, Korah, and all your brothers, sons of Levi, with you? And are you seeking for the priesthood also?" 
Numbers16:11 Therefore you and all your congregation are gathered together against Yahweh; but as for Aaron, who is he that you grumble against him?”" 
Numbers16:12 Then Moses sent a summons to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab; but they said, “We will not come up." 
Numbers16:13 Is it not enough that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey to put us to death in the wilderness, but you would also lord it over us?" 
Numbers16:14 Indeed, you have not brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor have you given us an inheritance of fields and vineyards. Would you put out the eyes of these men? We will not come up!”" 
Numbers16:15 Then Moses became very angry and said to Yahweh, “Do not regard their offering! I have not taken a single donkey from them, nor have I done harm to any of them.”" 
Numbers16:16 And Moses said to Korah, “You and all your congregation be present before Yahweh tomorrow, both you and they along with Aaron." 
Numbers16:17 And each of you take his firepan and put incense on it, and each of you bring his censer near before Yahweh, 250 firepans; also you and Aaron shall each bring his firepan.”" 
Numbers16:18 So they each took his own censer and put fire on it, and laid incense on it; and they stood at the doorway of the tent of meeting, with Moses and Aaron." 
Numbers16:19 Thus Korah assembled all the congregation against them at the doorway of the tent of meeting. And the glory of Yahweh appeared to all the congregation. 
Numbers16:20 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying," 
Numbers16:21 “Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them instantly.”" 
Numbers16:22 But they fell on their faces and said, “O God, God of the spirits of all flesh, when one man sins, will You be angry with the entire congregation?”" 
Numbers16:23 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers16:24 “Speak to the congregation, saying, ‘Get back from around the dwellings of Korah, Dathan and Abiram.’”" 
Numbers16:25 Then Moses arose and went to Dathan and Abiram, with the elders of Israel following him," 
Numbers16:26 and he spoke to the congregation, saying, “Turn aside now from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing that belongs to them, lest you be swept away in all their sin.”" 
Numbers16:27 So they got back from around the dwellings of Korah, Dathan and Abiram; but Dathan and Abiram came out and stood at the doorway of their tents, along with their wives and their sons and their little ones." 
Numbers16:28 And Moses said, “By this you shall know that Yahweh has sent me to do all these deeds; for this is not from my heart." 
Numbers16:29 If these men die the death of all men or if they suffer the fate of all men, then Yahweh has not sent me." 
Numbers16:30 But if Yahweh creates an entirely new thing and the ground opens its mouth and swallows them up with all that is theirs, and they go down to Sheol alive, then you will know that these men have spurned Yahweh.”" 
Numbers16:31 And it happened that as he finished speaking all these words, the ground that was under them split open;" 
Numbers16:32 and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up, and their households, and all the men who belonged to Korah with their possessions." 
Numbers16:33 So they and all that belonged to them went down to Sheol alive; and the earth closed over them, and they perished from the midst of the assembly." 
Numbers16:34 Then all Israel who were around them fled at their outcry, for they said, “Lest the earth swallow us up!”" 
Numbers16:35 Fire also came forth from Yahweh and consumed the 250 men who were bringing near the incense. 
Numbers16:36 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers16:37 “Say to Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, that he shall take up the censers out of the midst of the blaze, and you scatter the burning coals abroad; for they are holy." 
Numbers16:38 As for the censers of these men who have sinned at the cost of their lives, make them into hammered sheets for a plating of the altar, since they brought them near before Yahweh, and they are holy; and they shall be for a sign to the sons of Israel.”" 
Numbers16:39 So Eleazar the priest took the bronze censers which the men who were burned had brought near, and they hammered them out as a plating for the altar," 
Numbers16:40 as a memorial to the sons of Israel that no outsider who is not of the seed of Aaron should come near to burn incense before Yahweh; so that he will not become like Korah and his congregation—just as Yahweh had spoken to him by the hand of Moses. 
Numbers16:41 But on the next day all the congregation of the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron, saying, “You are the ones who have caused the death of the people of Yahweh.”" 
Numbers16:42 It came about, however, when the congregation had assembled against Moses and Aaron, that they turned toward the tent of meeting, and behold, the cloud covered it and the glory of Yahweh appeared." 
Numbers16:43 Then Moses and Aaron came to the front of the tent of meeting," 
Numbers16:44 and Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers16:45 “Get away from among this congregation, that I may consume them instantly.” Then they fell on their faces." 
Numbers16:46 And Moses said to Aaron, “Take your censer and put in it fire from the altar, and lay incense on it; then bring it quickly to the congregation and make atonement for them, for wrath has gone forth from Yahweh, the plague has begun!”" 
Numbers16:47 Then Aaron took it as Moses had spoken, and ran into the midst of the assembly, for behold, the plague had begun among the people. So he put on the incense and made atonement for the people." 
Numbers16:48 And he took his stand between the dead and the living, so that the plague was checked." 
Numbers16:49 But those who died by the plague were 14,700, besides those who died on account of Korah." 
Numbers16:50 Then Aaron returned to Moses at the doorway of the tent of meeting, for the plague had been checked." 
Numbers17:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers17:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel, and get from them a rod for each father’s household: twelve rods from all their leaders according to their fathers’ households. You shall write each name on his rod," 
Numbers17:3 and write Aaron’s name on the rod of Levi; for there is one rod for the head of each of their fathers’ households. 
Numbers17:4 You shall then deposit them in the tent of meeting in front of the testimony, where I meet with you." 
Numbers17:5 And it will come about that the rod of the man whom I choose will sprout. Thus I will rid Myself of the grumblings of the sons of Israel, who are grumbling against you.”" 
Numbers17:6 Moses therefore spoke to the sons of Israel, and all their leaders gave him a rod apiece, for each leader according to their fathers’ households, twelve rods, with the rod of Aaron among their rods." 
Numbers17:7 So Moses deposited the rods before Yahweh in the tent of the testimony. 
Numbers17:8 Now it happened on the next day Moses went into the tent of the testimony; and behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi had sprouted and put forth buds and produced flowers, and it bore ripe almonds." 
Numbers17:9 Moses then brought out all the rods from the presence of Yahweh to all the sons of Israel; and they looked, and each man took his rod." 
Numbers17:10 But Yahweh said to Moses, “Put back the rod of Aaron before the testimony to be kept as a sign against the rebels, that you may put an end to their grumblings against Me, so that they will not die.”" 
Numbers17:11 Thus Moses did; just as Yahweh had commanded him, so he did." 
Numbers17:12 Then the sons of Israel spoke to Moses, saying, “Behold, we are breathing our last breath, we are perishing, we are all perishing!" 
Numbers17:13 Everyone who comes near, who comes near to the tabernacle of Yahweh, must die. Are we to breathe our utter last?”" 
Numbers18:1 So Yahweh said to Aaron, “You and your sons and your father’s household with you shall bear the guilt in connection with the sanctuary, and you and your sons with you shall bear the guilt in connection with your priesthood." 
Numbers18:2 But bring near with you also your brothers, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, that they may be joined with you and minister to you, while you and your sons with you are before the tent of the testimony." 
Numbers18:3 And they shall thus keep your responsibility and the responsibility of all the tent, but they shall not come near to the furnishings of the sanctuary and the altar, so that neither they nor you will die." 
Numbers18:4 And they shall be joined with you and keep the responsibility of the tent of meeting, for all the service of the tent; but an outsider may not come near you." 
Numbers18:5 So you shall keep the responsibility of the sanctuary and the responsibility of the altar, so that there will no longer be wrath on the sons of Israel." 
Numbers18:6 And behold, I Myself have taken your brothers the Levites from among the sons of Israel; they are a gift to you, given to Yahweh, to perform the service for the tent of meeting." 
Numbers18:7 But you and your sons with you shall keep your priesthood in everything that concerns the altar and inside the veil, and you are to perform service. I am giving you the priesthood as a bestowed service, but the outsider who comes near shall be put to death.”" 
Numbers18:8 Then Yahweh spoke to Aaron, “Now behold, I Myself have given you the responsibility of My contributions, even all the holy gifts of the sons of Israel I have given them to you as a portion and to your sons as a perpetual statute." 
Numbers18:9 This shall be yours from the most holy gifts reserved from the fire; every offering of theirs, even every grain offering and every sin offering and every guilt offering, which they shall render to Me, shall be most holy for you and for your sons." 
Numbers18:10 As the most holy gifts you shall eat it; every male shall eat it. It shall be holy to you. 
Numbers18:11 This also is yours, the contribution from their gift, even all the wave offerings of the sons of Israel; I have given them to you and to your sons and daughters with you as a perpetual statute. Everyone of your household who is clean may eat it." 
Numbers18:12 All the best of the fresh oil and all the best of the fresh wine and of the grain, the first fruits of those which they give to Yahweh, I give them to you." 
Numbers18:13 The first ripe fruits of all that is in their land, which they bring to Yahweh, shall be yours; everyone of your household who is clean may eat it." 
Numbers18:14 Every devoted thing in Israel shall be yours. 
Numbers18:15 Every first issue of the womb of all flesh, whether man or animal, which they bring near to Yahweh, shall be yours; nevertheless the firstborn of man you shall surely redeem, and the firstborn of unclean animals you shall redeem." 
Numbers18:16 Now as to their redemption price, from a month old you shall redeem them, by your valuation, five shekels in silver, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs." 
Numbers18:17 But the firstborn of an ox or the firstborn of a sheep or the firstborn of a goat, you shall not redeem; they are holy. You shall splash their blood on the altar and shall offer up their fat in smoke as an offering by fire, for a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Numbers18:18 And their meat shall be yours; it shall be yours like the breast of a wave offering and like the right thigh. 
Numbers18:19 All the contributions of the holy gifts, which the sons of Israel raise up to Yahweh, I have given to you and your sons and your daughters with you, as a perpetual statute. It is an everlasting covenant of salt before Yahweh to you and your seed with you.”" 
Numbers18:20 Then Yahweh said to Aaron, “You shall have no inheritance in their land nor own any portion among them; I am your portion and your inheritance among the sons of Israel." 
Numbers18:21 “Now to the sons of Levi, behold, I have given all the tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service which they perform, the service of the tent of meeting." 
Numbers18:22 And the sons of Israel shall not come near the tent of meeting again, or they will bear sin and die." 
Numbers18:23 Only the Levites shall perform the service of the tent of meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity; it shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations, and among the sons of Israel they shall have no inheritance." 
Numbers18:24 For the tithe of the sons of Israel, which they raise up as a contribution offering to Yahweh, I have given to the Levites for an inheritance; therefore I have said concerning them, ‘They shall have no inheritance among the sons of Israel.’”" 
Numbers18:25 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers18:26 “Moreover, you shall speak to the Levites and say to them, ‘When you take from the sons of Israel the tithe which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall raise up a contribution offering from it to Yahweh, a tithe of the tithe." 
Numbers18:27 And your contribution offering shall be reckoned to you as the grain from the threshing floor or the full produce from the wine vat. 
Numbers18:28 So you shall also raise up a contribution offering to Yahweh from all your tithes, which you receive from the sons of Israel; and from it you shall give the contribution offering of Yahweh to Aaron the priest." 
Numbers18:29 Out of all your gifts you shall raise up every contribution offering due to Yahweh, from all the best of them, the sacred part from them.’" 
Numbers18:30 And you shall say to them, ‘When you have raised up from it the best of it, then the rest shall be accounted to the Levites as the product of the threshing floor and as the product of the wine vat." 
Numbers18:31 And you may eat it anywhere, you and your households, for it is your compensation in return for your service in the tent of meeting." 
Numbers18:32 And you will bear no sin by reason of it when you have raised up the best of it. But you shall not profane the sacred gifts of the sons of Israel, so that you will not die.’”" 
Numbers19:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying," 
Numbers19:2 “This is the statute of the law which Yahweh has commanded, saying, ‘Speak to the sons of Israel that they take to you a red heifer without blemish, in which is no defect and on which a yoke has never been placed." 
Numbers19:3 And you shall give it to Eleazar the priest, and it shall be brought outside the camp and be slaughtered in his presence." 
Numbers19:4 Next Eleazar the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger and sprinkle some of its blood toward the front of the tent of meeting seven times. 
Numbers19:5 Then the heifer shall be burned in his sight; its hide and its flesh and its blood, with its refuse, shall be burned." 
Numbers19:6 And the priest shall take cedar wood and hyssop and scarlet material and cast it into the midst of the burning heifer. 
Numbers19:7 The priest shall then wash his clothes and bathe his body in water and afterward come into the camp, but the priest shall be unclean until evening." 
Numbers19:8 The one who burns it shall also wash his clothes in water and bathe his body in water and shall be unclean until evening. 
Numbers19:9 Now a man who is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer and deposit them outside the camp in a clean place, and the congregation of the sons of Israel shall keep it as water to remove impurity; it is purification from sin." 
Numbers19:10 And the one who gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening; and it shall be a perpetual statute to the sons of Israel and to the sojourner who sojourns among them. 
Numbers19:11 ‘The one who touches the corpse of any person shall be unclean for seven days. 
Numbers19:12 That one shall purify himself from uncleanness with the water on the third day and on the seventh day, and then he will be clean; but if he does not purify himself on the third day and on the seventh day, he will not be clean." 
Numbers19:13 Anyone who touches a corpse, the body of a man who has died, and does not purify himself, makes the tabernacle of Yahweh unclean; and that person shall be cut off from Israel. Because the water for impurity was not splashed on him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is still on him." 
Numbers19:14 ‘This is the law when a man dies in a tent: everyone who comes into the tent and everyone who is in the tent shall be unclean for seven days. 
Numbers19:15 And every open vessel, which has no covering tied down on it, shall be unclean." 
Numbers19:16 Also, anyone who in the open field touches one who has been slain with a sword or who has died naturally, or a human bone or a grave, shall be unclean for seven days." 
Numbers19:17 Then for the unclean person they shall take some of the ashes of the burnt purification from sin and flowing water shall be added to them in a vessel. 
Numbers19:18 And a clean person shall take hyssop and dip it in the water and sprinkle it on the tent and on all the furnishings and on the persons who were there and on the one who touched the bone or the one slain or the one dying naturally or the grave. 
Numbers19:19 Then the clean person shall sprinkle on the unclean on the third day and on the seventh day; and on the seventh day he shall purify him from uncleanness, and he shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and shall be clean by evening." 
Numbers19:20 ‘But the man who is unclean and does not purify himself from uncleanness, that person shall be cut off from the midst of the assembly because he has made the sanctuary of Yahweh unclean; the water for impurity has not been splashed on him; he is unclean." 
Numbers19:21 So it shall be a perpetual statute for them. And he who sprinkles the water for impurity shall wash his clothes, and he who touches the water for impurity shall be unclean until evening." 
Numbers19:22 Furthermore, anything that the unclean person touches shall be unclean; and the person who touches it shall be unclean until evening.’”" 
Numbers20:1 Then the sons of Israel, the whole congregation, came to the wilderness of Zin in the first month; and the people stayed at Kadesh. And Miriam died there and was buried there." 
Numbers20:2 Now there was no water for the congregation, and they assembled themselves against Moses and Aaron." 
Numbers20:3 The people thus contended with Moses and spoke, saying, “If only we had breathed our last when our brothers breathed their last before Yahweh!" 
Numbers20:4 Why then have you brought the assembly of Yahweh into this wilderness, for us and our beasts to die here?" 
Numbers20:5 And why have you made us come up from Egypt, to bring us into this evil place? It is not a place of grain or figs or vines or pomegranates, nor is there water to drink.”" 
Numbers20:6 Then Moses and Aaron came in from the presence of the assembly to the doorway of the tent of meeting and fell on their faces. Then the glory of Yahweh appeared to them; 
Numbers20:7 and Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers20:8 “Take the rod; and you and your brother Aaron assemble the congregation and speak to the rock before their eyes, that it may yield its water. You shall thus bring forth water for them out of the rock and let the congregation and their beasts drink.”" 
Numbers20:9 So Moses took the rod from before Yahweh, just as He had commanded him;" 
Numbers20:10 and Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly before the rock. And he said to them, “Listen now, you rebels; shall we bring forth water for you out of this rock?”" 
Numbers20:11 Then Moses raised high his hand and struck the rock twice with his rod; and water came forth abundantly, and the congregation and their beasts drank." 
Numbers20:12 But Yahweh said to Moses and Aaron, “Because you did not believe Me, to treat Me as holy in the sight of the sons of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land which I have given them.”" 
Numbers20:13 Those were the waters of Meribah because the sons of Israel contended with Yahweh, and He proved Himself holy among them." 
Numbers20:14 From Kadesh Moses then sent messengers to the king of Edom: “Thus your brother Israel has said, ‘You know all the hardship that has befallen us," 
Numbers20:15 that our fathers went down to Egypt, and we stayed in Egypt a long time, and the Egyptians treated us and our fathers badly." 
Numbers20:16 So we cried out to Yahweh, and He heard our voice and sent an angel and brought us out from Egypt; now behold, we are at Kadesh, a town on the edge of your territory." 
Numbers20:17 Please let us pass through your land. We will not pass through field or through vineyard; we will not even drink water from a well. We will go along the king’s highway; we will not turn to the right or to the left until we pass through your territory.’” 
Numbers20:18 Edom, however, said to him, “You shall not pass through us, lest I come out to meet you with the sword.”" 
Numbers20:19 Again, the sons of Israel said to him, “We will go up by the highway, and if I and my livestock do drink any of your water, then I will pay its price. Let me only pass through on my feet, nothing else.”" 
Numbers20:20 But he said, “You shall not pass through.” And Edom came out to meet him with a heavy force and with a strong hand." 
Numbers20:21 Thus Edom refused to allow Israel to pass through his territory; so Israel turned away from him. 
Numbers20:22 Then they set out from Kadesh, and the sons of Israel, the whole congregation, came to Mount Hor." 
Numbers20:23 And Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron at Mount Hor by the border of the land of Edom, saying," 
Numbers20:24 “Aaron will be gathered to his people, for he shall not enter the land which I have given to the sons of Israel because you rebelled against My command at the waters of Meribah." 
Numbers20:25 Take Aaron and his son Eleazar and bring them up to Mount Hor; 
Numbers20:26 and strip Aaron of his garments and put them on his son Eleazar. So Aaron will be gathered to his people and will die there.” 
Numbers20:27 So Moses did just as Yahweh had commanded, and they went up to Mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation." 
Numbers20:28 And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments and put them on his son Eleazar, and Aaron died there on the mountain top. Then Moses and Eleazar came down from the mountain." 
Numbers20:29 So all the congregation saw that Aaron breathed his last, and all the house of Israel wept for Aaron thirty days." 
Numbers21:1 Then the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who lived in the Negev, heard that Israel was coming by the way of Atharim, and he fought against Israel and took some of them captive." 
Numbers21:2 So Israel made a vow to Yahweh and said, “If You will indeed give this people into my hand, then I will devote their cities to destruction.”" 
Numbers21:3 Then Yahweh heard the voice of Israel and gave the Canaanites over; so they devoted them and their cities to destruction. Thus the name of the place was called Hormah. 
Numbers21:4 Then they set out from Mount Hor by the way to the Red Sea, to go around the land of Edom; and the people became impatient on the way." 
Numbers21:5 And the people spoke against God and against Moses, “Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? For there is no food and no water, and we loathe this miserable food.”" 
Numbers21:6 So Yahweh sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people so that many people of Israel died." 
Numbers21:7 Then the people came to Moses and said, “We have sinned because we have spoken against Yahweh and against you; pray to Yahweh, that He may remove the serpents from us.” And Moses prayed for the people." 
Numbers21:8 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Make a fiery serpent and set it on a standard; and it will be that everyone who is bitten and looks at it, will live.”" 
Numbers21:9 And Moses made a bronze serpent and set it on the standard; and it happened, that if a serpent bit any man, when he looked to the bronze serpent, he lived." 
Numbers21:10 Then the sons of Israel set out and camped in Oboth. 
Numbers21:11 They then set out from Oboth and camped at Iye-abarim, in the wilderness which is opposite Moab, east toward the sunrise." 
Numbers21:12 From there they set out and camped in Wadi Zered. 
Numbers21:13 From there they set out and camped on the other side of the Arnon, which is in the wilderness that comes out of the border of the Amorites, for the Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites." 
Numbers21:14 Therefore it is said in the Book of the Wars of Yahweh, “Waheb in Suphah, And the wadis of the Arnon," 
Numbers21:15 And the slope of the wadis That extends to the site of Ar, And leans to the border of Moab.”" 
Numbers21:16 And from there they continued to Beer, that is the well where Yahweh said to Moses, “Assemble the people, that I may give them water.”" 
Numbers21:17 Then Israel sang this song: “Spring up, O well! Sing to it!" 
Numbers21:18 The well, which the leaders dug, Which the nobles of the people carved out, With the scepter and with their staffs.” And from the wilderness they continued to Mattanah," 
Numbers21:19 and from Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth," 
Numbers21:20 and from Bamoth to the valley that is in the land of Moab, at the top of Pisgah which overlooks the wasteland." 
Numbers21:21 Then Israel sent messengers to Sihon, king of the Amorites, saying," 
Numbers21:22 “Let me pass through your land. We will not turn off into field or vineyard; we will not drink water from wells. We will go by the king’s highway until we have passed through your border.” 
Numbers21:23 But Sihon would not allow Israel to pass through his border. So Sihon gathered all his people and went out to meet Israel in the wilderness and came to Jahaz and fought against Israel. 
Numbers21:24 Then Israel struck him with the edge of the sword and took possession of his land from the Arnon to the Jabbok, as far as the sons of Ammon; for the border of the sons of Ammon was Jazer." 
Numbers21:25 And Israel took all these cities, and Israel lived in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all her towns." 
Numbers21:26 For Heshbon was the city of Sihon, king of the Amorites. Now it was he who had fought against the former king of Moab and had taken all his land out of his hand, as far as the Arnon." 
Numbers21:27 Therefore those who use proverbs say, “Come to Heshbon! Let it be built! So let the city of Sihon be established." 
Numbers21:28 For a fire went forth from Heshbon, A flame from the town of Sihon; It devoured Ar of Moab, The dominant heights of the Arnon." 
Numbers21:29 Woe to you, O Moab! You perish, O people of Chemosh! He has given his sons as fugitives, And his daughters into captivity, To an Amorite king, Sihon." 
Numbers21:30 But we have cast them down, Heshbon perishes as far as Dibon, And we have made desolate even to Nophah, Which reaches to Medeba.”" 
Numbers21:31 Thus Israel lived in the land of the Amorites. 
Numbers21:32 And Moses sent to spy out Jazer, and they captured its towns and dispossessed the Amorites who were there." 
Numbers21:33 Then they turned and went up by the way of Bashan, and Og the king of Bashan went out to meet them, he and all his people for battle at Edrei." 
Numbers21:34 But Yahweh said to Moses, “Do not fear him, for I have given him into your hand, and all his people and his land; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon, king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.”" 
Numbers21:35 So they struck down him and his sons and all his people, until there was no survivor remaining for him; and they possessed his land." 
Numbers22:1 Then the sons of Israel set out and camped in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan opposite Jericho. 
Numbers22:2 And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites. 
Numbers22:3 So Moab was in great fear because of the people, for they were numerous; and Moab was in dread of the sons of Israel." 
Numbers22:4 Then Moab said to the elders of Midian, “Now this assembly will lick up all that is around us, as the ox licks up the grass of the field.” And Balak the son of Zippor was king of Moab at that time." 
Numbers22:5 So he sent messengers to Balaam the son of Beor, at Pethor, which is near the River, in the land of the sons of his people, to call him, saying, “Behold, a people came out of Egypt; behold, they cover the surface of the land, and they are settled opposite me." 
Numbers22:6 So now, please come, curse this people for me since they are too mighty for me; perhaps I may be able to strike them down and drive them out of the land. For I know that he whom you bless is blessed, and he whom you curse is cursed.”" 
Numbers22:7 So the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian went away with the fees for divination in their hand; and they came to Balaam and spoke Balak’s words to him. 
Numbers22:8 And he said to them, “Spend the night here, and I will bring word back to you as Yahweh may speak to me.” And the leaders of Moab stayed with Balaam." 
Numbers22:9 Then God came to Balaam and said, “Who are these men with you?”" 
Numbers22:10 And Balaam said to God, “Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent word to me," 
Numbers22:11 ‘Behold, there is a people who came out of Egypt, and they cover the surface of the land; now come, curse them for me; perhaps I may be able to fight against them and drive them out.’”" 
Numbers22:12 And God said to Balaam, “Do not go with them; you shall not curse the people, for they are blessed.”" 
Numbers22:13 So Balaam arose in the morning and said to Balak’s leaders, “Go back to your land, for Yahweh has refused to allow me to go with you.”" 
Numbers22:14 And the leaders of Moab arose and came to Balak and said, “Balaam refused to go with us.”" 
Numbers22:15 Then Balak again sent leaders, more numerous and more honorable than the former." 
Numbers22:16 And they came to Balaam and said to him, “Thus says Balak the son of Zippor, ‘Let nothing, I beg you, withhold you from coming to me;" 
Numbers22:17 for I will indeed honor you richly, and I will do whatever you say to me. Please come then, curse this people for me.’”" 
Numbers22:18 And Balaam replied to the servants of Balak, “Though Balak were to give me his house full of silver and gold, I could not do anything, either small or great, to trespass the command of Yahweh my God." 
Numbers22:19 So now, please, you also stay here tonight, and I will know what else Yahweh will speak to me.”" 
Numbers22:20 And God came to Balaam at night and said to him, “If the men have come to call you, rise up and go with them; but only the word which I speak to you shall you do.”" 
Numbers22:21 So Balaam arose in the morning and saddled his donkey and went with the leaders of Moab. 
Numbers22:22 But God was angry because he was going, so the angel of Yahweh took his stand in the way as an adversary against him. Now he was riding on his donkey, and his two young men were with him." 
Numbers22:23 Then the donkey saw the angel of Yahweh standing in the way with his drawn sword in his hand, and the donkey turned off from the way and went into the field; so Balaam struck the donkey to turn it back into the way." 
Numbers22:24 Then the angel of Yahweh stood in a narrow path of the vineyards, with a wall on this side and a wall on that side." 
Numbers22:25 And the donkey saw the angel of Yahweh, and it pressed itself to the wall and pressed Balaam’s foot against the wall, so he struck it again." 
Numbers22:26 And the angel of Yahweh passed on ahead and stood in a narrow place where there was no way to turn to the right hand or the left. 
Numbers22:27 Then the donkey saw the angel of Yahweh and lay down under Balaam; so Balaam was angry and struck the donkey with his stick. 
Numbers22:28 And Yahweh opened the mouth of the donkey, and it said to Balaam, “What have I done to you, that you have struck me these three times?”" 
Numbers22:29 Then Balaam said to the donkey, “Because you have made a mockery of me! If there had been a sword in my hand, I would have killed you by now.”" 
Numbers22:30 And the donkey said to Balaam, “Am I not your donkey on which you have ridden all your life to this day? Have I ever been accustomed to do so to you?” And he said, “No.”" 
Numbers22:31 Then Yahweh opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of Yahweh standing in the way with his drawn sword in his hand; and he bowed his head down and prostrated himself to the ground." 
Numbers22:32 And the angel of Yahweh said to him, “Why have you struck your donkey these three times? Behold, I have come out as an adversary because your way was contrary to me." 
Numbers22:33 And the donkey saw me and turned aside from me these three times. If it had not turned aside from me, I would surely have killed you just now, and let it live.”" 
Numbers22:34 And Balaam said to the angel of Yahweh, “I have sinned, for I did not know that you were standing in the way against me. So now, if it is evil in your sight, I will turn back.”" 
Numbers22:35 But the angel of Yahweh said to Balaam, “Go with the men, but you shall speak only the word which I tell you.” So Balaam went along with the leaders of Balak." 
Numbers22:36 Then Balak heard that Balaam was coming and went out to meet him at the city of Moab, which is on the Arnon border, at the end of the border." 
Numbers22:37 Then Balak said to Balaam, “Did I not urgently send to you to call you? Why did you not come to me? Am I indeed unable to honor you?”" 
Numbers22:38 So Balaam said to Balak, “Behold, I have come now to you! Am I able to speak anything at all? The word that God puts in my mouth, that I shall speak.”" 
Numbers22:39 And Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kiriath-huzoth." 
Numbers22:40 And Balak sacrificed oxen and sheep, and sent some to Balaam and the leaders who were with him." 
Numbers22:41 Then it happened in the morning that Balak took Balaam and brought him up to the high places of Baal, and he saw from there the end of the camp of the people." 
Numbers23:1 Then Balaam said to Balak, “Build seven altars for me here, and prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me here.”" 
Numbers23:2 So Balak did just as Balaam had spoken, and Balak and Balaam offered up a bull and a ram on each altar." 
Numbers23:3 Then Balaam said to Balak, “Stand beside your burnt offering, and I will go; perhaps Yahweh will come to meet me, and whatever He shows me I will tell you.” So he went to a bare hill." 
Numbers23:4 Now God met Balaam, and he said to Him, “I have set up the seven altars, and I have offered up a bull and a ram on each altar.”" 
Numbers23:5 Then Yahweh put a word in Balaam’s mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and you shall speak thus.”" 
Numbers23:6 So he returned to him, and behold, he was standing beside his burnt offering, he and all the leaders of Moab." 
Numbers23:7 Then he took up his discourse and said, “From Aram Balak has brought me, Moab’s king from the mountains of the East, ‘Come curse Jacob for me, And come, denounce Israel!’" 
Numbers23:8 How shall I curse whom God has not cursed? And how can I denounce whom Yahweh has not denounced? 
Numbers23:9 For I see him from the top of the rocks, And I look at him from the hills; Behold, a people who dwells alone, And will not be reckoned among the nations." 
Numbers23:10 Who can number the dust of Jacob, Or count the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the upright, And let my end be like his!”" 
Numbers23:11 Then Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, but behold, you have blessed them repeatedly!”" 
Numbers23:12 And he replied, “Must I not be careful to speak what Yahweh puts in my mouth?”" 
Numbers23:13 Then Balak said to him, “Please come with me to another place from where you may see them, but you will only see the end of them and will not see all of them; and curse them for me from there.”" 
Numbers23:14 So he took him to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars and offered a bull and a ram on each altar." 
Numbers23:15 And he said to Balak, “Stand here beside your burnt offering while I myself meet Yahweh over there.”" 
Numbers23:16 Then Yahweh met Balaam and put a word in his mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and thus you shall speak.”" 
Numbers23:17 So he came to him, and behold, he was standing beside his burnt offering, and the leaders of Moab with him. And Balak said to him, “What has Yahweh spoken?”" 
Numbers23:18 Then he took up his discourse and said, “Arise, O Balak, and hear; Give ear to me, O son of Zippor!" 
Numbers23:19 God is not a man, that He should lie, Nor a son of man, that He should repent; Has He said, and will He not do it? Or has He spoken, and will He not establish it?" 
Numbers23:20 Behold, I have received a command to bless; When He has blessed, then I cannot revoke it." 
Numbers23:21 He has not observed misfortune in Jacob; Nor has He seen trouble in Israel; Yahweh his God is with him, And the shout of a king is among them." 
Numbers23:22 God brings them out of Egypt, He is for them like the horns of the wild ox." 
Numbers23:23 For there is no omen against Jacob, Nor is there any divination against Israel; At the proper time it shall be said to Jacob And to Israel, what God has done!" 
Numbers23:24 Behold, a people rises like a lioness, And as a lion it lifts itself; It will not lie down until it devours the prey, And drinks the blood of the slain.”" 
Numbers23:25 Then Balak said to Balaam, “Do not curse them at all nor bless them at all!”" 
Numbers23:26 But Balaam replied to Balak, “Did I not tell you, saying, ‘Whatever Yahweh speaks, that I must do’?”" 
Numbers23:27 Then Balak said to Balaam, “Please come, I will take you to another place; perhaps it will be right in the eyes of God that you curse them for me from there.”" 
Numbers23:28 So Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor which overlooks the wasteland. 
Numbers23:29 And Balaam said to Balak, “Build seven altars for me here and prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me here.”" 
Numbers23:30 And Balak did just as Balaam had said and offered up a bull and a ram on each altar. 
Numbers24:1 And Balaam saw that it was good in the eyes of Yahweh to bless Israel, so he did not go as at other times to encounter omens, but he set his face toward the wilderness." 
Numbers24:2 And Balaam lifted up his eyes and saw Israel dwelling tribe by tribe; and the Spirit of God came upon him. 
Numbers24:3 Then he took up his discourse and said, “The oracle of Balaam the son of Beor, And the oracle of the man whose eye is uncovered;" 
Numbers24:4 The oracle of him who hears the words of God, Who beholds the vision of the Almighty, Falling down, yet having his eyes opened," 
Numbers24:5 How fair are your tents, O Jacob, Your dwellings, O Israel!" 
Numbers24:6 Like valleys that stretch out, Like gardens beside the river, Like aloes planted by Yahweh, Like cedars beside the waters." 
Numbers24:7 Water will flow from his buckets, And his seed will be by many waters, And his king shall be lifted up higher than Agag, And his kingdom shall be exalted." 
Numbers24:8 God brings him out of Egypt, He is for him like the horns of the wild ox. He will devour the nations who are his adversaries, And will gnaw their bones in pieces, And shatter them with his arrows." 
Numbers24:9 He crouches, he lies down as a lion, And as a lion, who dares rouse him? Blessed is everyone who blesses you, And cursed is everyone who curses you.”" 
Numbers24:10 Then Balak’s anger burned against Balaam, and he struck his hands together; and Balak said to Balaam, “I called you to curse my enemies, but behold, you have blessed them repeatedly these three times!" 
Numbers24:11 So now, flee to your place. I said I would honor you greatly, but behold, Yahweh has held you back from honor.”" 
Numbers24:12 And Balaam said to Balak, “Did I not tell your messengers whom you had sent to me, saying," 
Numbers24:13 ‘Though Balak were to give me his house full of silver and gold, I could not do anything to trespass the command of Yahweh, either good or bad, of my own accord. What Yahweh speaks, that I will speak’?" 
Numbers24:14 So now, behold, I am going to my people; come, and I will advise you what this people will do to your people in the last days.”" 
Numbers24:15 Then he took up his discourse and said, “The oracle of Balaam the son of Beor, And the oracle of the man whose eye is uncovered," 
Numbers24:16 The oracle of him who hears the words of God, And knows the knowledge of the Most High, Who beholds the vision of the Almighty, Falling down, yet having his eyes opened." 
Numbers24:17 I see him, but not now; I behold him, but not near; A star shall come forth from Jacob, A scepter shall rise from Israel, And shall crush through the forehead of Moab, And tear down all the sons of Sheth." 
Numbers24:18 And Edom shall be a possession, Seir, its enemies, also will be a possession, While Israel performs valiantly." 
Numbers24:19 And one from Jacob shall have dominion, And will make the survivor perish from the city.”" 
Numbers24:20 Then he looked at Amalek and took up his discourse and said, “Amalek was the first of the nations, But his end shall be destruction.”" 
Numbers24:21 Then he looked at the Kenite and took up his discourse and said, “Your habitation is enduring, And your nest is set in the cliff." 
Numbers24:22 Nevertheless Kain will be consumed; How long will Asshur keep you captive?” 
Numbers24:23 Then he took up his discourse and said, “Woe, who can live except when God has ordained it?" 
Numbers24:24 But ships shall come from the coast of Kittim, And they shall afflict Asshur and will afflict Eber; So they also will come to destruction.”" 
Numbers24:25 Then Balaam arose and went and returned to his place, and Balak also went his way." 
Numbers25:1 And Israel remained at Shittim, and the people began to play the harlot with the daughters of Moab." 
Numbers25:2 Indeed they called the people to the sacrifices of their gods, and the people ate and bowed down to their gods." 
Numbers25:3 So Israel joined themselves to Baal of Peor, and the anger of Yahweh burned against Israel." 
Numbers25:4 And Yahweh said to Moses, “Take all who are the heads of the people and execute them in broad daylight before Yahweh, so that the burning anger of Yahweh may turn away from Israel.”" 
Numbers25:5 So Moses said to the judges of Israel, “Each of you kill his men who have joined themselves to Baal of Peor.”" 
Numbers25:6 Then behold, one of the sons of Israel came and brought near to his brothers a Midianite woman, in the sight of Moses and in the sight of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, while they were weeping at the doorway of the tent of meeting." 
Numbers25:7 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saw it, so he arose from the midst of the congregation and took a spear in his hand," 
Numbers25:8 and he went after the man of Israel into the tent and pierced both of them through, the man of Israel and the woman, through the body. Then the plague on the sons of Israel was checked." 
Numbers25:9 So those who died by the plague were 24,000." 
Numbers25:10 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers25:11 “Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, has turned away My wrath from the sons of Israel in that he was jealous with My jealousy among them, so that I did not consume the sons of Israel in My jealousy." 
Numbers25:12 Therefore say, ‘Behold, I give him My covenant of peace;" 
Numbers25:13 and it shall be for him and his seed after him, a covenant of a perpetual priesthood, because he was jealous for his God and made atonement for the sons of Israel.’”" 
Numbers25:14 Now the name of the slain man of Israel who was slain with the Midianite woman, was Zimri the son of Salu, a leader of a father’s household among the Simeonites." 
Numbers25:15 And the name of the Midianite woman, who was struck down, was Cozbi the daughter of Zur, who was head of the people of a father’s household in Midian." 
Numbers25:16 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers25:17 “Be hostile to the Midianites and strike them," 
Numbers25:18 for they have been hostile to you with their deceptive tricks, with which they have deceived you in the affair of Peor and in the affair of Cozbi, the daughter of the leader of Midian, their sister who was slain on the day of the plague because of Peor.”" 
Numbers26:1 Then it happened after the plague, that Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying," 
Numbers26:2 “Take a census of all the congregation of the sons of Israel from twenty years old and upward, by their fathers’ households, whoever is able to go out to war in Israel.”" 
Numbers26:3 So Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying," 
Numbers26:4 “Take a census of the people from twenty years old and upward, as Yahweh has commanded Moses.” Now the sons of Israel who came out of the land of Egypt were:" 
Numbers26:5 Reuben, Israel’s firstborn, the sons of Reuben: of Hanoch, the family of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites;" 
Numbers26:6 of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites." 
Numbers26:7 These are the families of the Reubenites, and those who were numbered of them were 43,730." 
Numbers26:8 And the son of Pallu: Eliab. 
Numbers26:9 And the sons of Eliab: Nemuel and Dathan and Abiram. These are the Dathan and Abiram who were called upon by the congregation, who contended against Moses and against Aaron in the congregation of Korah, when they contended against Yahweh," 
Numbers26:10 and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up along with Korah, when that congregation died, when the fire consumed 250 men, so that they became a warning." 
Numbers26:11 The sons of Korah, however, did not die." 
Numbers26:12 The sons of Simeon according to their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites;" 
Numbers26:13 of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites; of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites." 
Numbers26:14 These are the families of the Simeonites, 22,200." 
Numbers26:15 The sons of Gad according to their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites;" 
Numbers26:16 of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites;" 
Numbers26:17 of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites." 
Numbers26:18 These are the families of the sons of Gad according to those who were numbered of them, 40,500." 
Numbers26:19 The sons of Judah were Er and Onan, but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan." 
Numbers26:20 And the sons of Judah according to their families were: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Perez, the family of the Perezites; of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites." 
Numbers26:21 And the sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites." 
Numbers26:22 These are the families of Judah according to those who were numbered of them, 76,500." 
Numbers26:23 The sons of Issachar according to their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the family of the Punites;" 
Numbers26:24 of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites." 
Numbers26:25 These are the families of Issachar according to those who were numbered of them, 64,300." 
Numbers26:26 The sons of Zebulun according to their families: of Sered, the family of the Seredites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites." 
Numbers26:27 These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those who were numbered of them, 60,500." 
Numbers26:28 The sons of Joseph according to their families: Manasseh and Ephraim. 
Numbers26:29 The sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites; and Machir became the father of Gilead: of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites." 
Numbers26:30 These are the sons of Gilead: of Iezer, the family of the Iezerites; of Helek, the family of the Helekites;" 
Numbers26:31 and of Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; and of Shechem, the family of the Shechemites;" 
Numbers26:32 and of Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and of Hepher, the family of the Hepherites." 
Numbers26:33 Now Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but only daughters; and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah." 
Numbers26:34 These are the families of Manasseh; and those who were numbered of them were 52,700." 
Numbers26:35 These are the sons of Ephraim according to their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the family of the Becherites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites." 
Numbers26:36 And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites." 
Numbers26:37 These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those who were numbered of them, 32,500. These are the sons of Joseph according to their families." 
Numbers26:38 The sons of Benjamin according to their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites;" 
Numbers26:39 of Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites." 
Numbers26:40 And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard, the family of the Ardites; of Naaman, the family of the Naamites." 
Numbers26:41 These are the sons of Benjamin according to their families; and those who were numbered of them were 45,600." 
Numbers26:42 These are the sons of Dan according to their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan according to their families." 
Numbers26:43 All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those who were numbered of them, were 64,400." 
Numbers26:44 The sons of Asher according to their families: of Imnah, the family of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; of Beriah, the family of the Beriites." 
Numbers26:45 Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites." 
Numbers26:46 And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah. 
Numbers26:47 These are the families of the sons of Asher according to those who were numbered of them, 53,400." 
Numbers26:48 The sons of Naphtali according to their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites;" 
Numbers26:49 of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites." 
Numbers26:50 These are the families of Naphtali according to their families; and those who were numbered of them were 45,400." 
Numbers26:51 These are those who were numbered of the sons of Israel, 601,730." 
Numbers26:52 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers26:53 “Among these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names. 
Numbers26:54 To the larger group you shall increase their inheritance, and to the smaller group you shall diminish their inheritance; each shall be given their inheritance according to those who were numbered of them." 
Numbers26:55 But the land shall be divided by lot. They shall receive their inheritance according to the names of the tribes of their fathers. 
Numbers26:56 According to the selection by lot, their inheritance shall be divided between the larger and the smaller groups.”" 
Numbers26:57 And these are those who were numbered of the Levites according to their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites." 
Numbers26:58 These are the families of Levi: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korahites. Kohath became the father of Amram." 
Numbers26:59 And the name of Amram’s wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt; and she bore to Amram: Aaron and Moses and their sister Miriam." 
Numbers26:60 And to Aaron were born Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
Numbers26:61 But Nadab and Abihu died when they offered strange fire before Yahweh. 
Numbers26:62 And those who were numbered of them were 23,000, every male from a month old and upward, for they were not numbered among the sons of Israel since no inheritance was given to them among the sons of Israel." 
Numbers26:63 These are those who were numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho." 
Numbers26:64 But among these there was not a man of those who were numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai." 
Numbers26:65 For Yahweh had said of them, “They shall surely die in the wilderness.” And not a man was left of them, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun." 
Numbers26:65 For Yahweh had said of them, “They shall surely die in the wilderness.” And not a man was left of them, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun." 
Numbers27:1 Then the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of Manasseh the son of Joseph, came near; and these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah and Hoglah and Milcah and Tirzah." 
Numbers27:2 And they stood before Moses and before Eleazar the priest and before the leaders and all the congregation, at the doorway of the tent of meeting, saying," 
Numbers27:3 “Our father died in the wilderness, yet he was not among the congregation of those who gathered themselves together against Yahweh in the congregation of Korah; but he died in his own sin, and he had no sons." 
Numbers27:4 Why should the name of our father be withdrawn from among his family because he had no son? Give us a possession among our father’s brothers.” 
Numbers27:5 So Moses brought their case near before Yahweh. 
Numbers27:6 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers27:7 “The daughters of Zelophehad are right in their statements. You shall surely give them a possession for an inheritance among their father’s brothers, and you shall have the inheritance of their father pass on to them." 
Numbers27:8 Further, you shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘If a man dies and has no son, then you shall have his inheritance pass on to his daughter." 
Numbers27:9 And if he has no daughter, then you shall give his inheritance to his brothers." 
Numbers27:10 And if he has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his father’s brothers." 
Numbers27:11 And if his father has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his blood relative in his own family, and he shall possess it; and it shall be a statutory judgment to the sons of Israel, just as Yahweh commanded Moses.’”" 
Numbers27:12 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Go up to this mountain of Abarim, and see the land which I have given to the sons of Israel." 
Numbers27:13 So when you have seen it, you too will be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother was," 
Numbers27:14 for in the wilderness of Zin, during the strife of the congregation, you rebelled against My command to treat Me as holy before their eyes at the water.” (These are the waters of Meribah of Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.)" 
Numbers27:15 Then Moses spoke to Yahweh, saying," 
Numbers27:16 “May Yahweh, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation," 
Numbers27:17 who will go out and come in before them, and who will lead them out and bring them in, so that the congregation of Yahweh will not be like sheep which have no shepherd.”" 
Numbers27:18 So Yahweh said to Moses, “Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand on him;" 
Numbers27:18 So Yahweh said to Moses, “Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand on him;" 
Numbers27:19 and have him stand before Eleazar the priest and before all the congregation, and commission him in their sight." 
Numbers27:20 And you shall put some of your splendor on him, in order that all the congregation of the sons of Israel may obey him." 
Numbers27:21 Moreover, he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Urim before Yahweh. At his command they shall go out, and at his command they shall come in, both he and the sons of Israel with him, even all the congregation.”" 
Numbers27:22 So Moses did just as Yahweh commanded him; and he took Joshua and had him stand before Eleazar the priest and before all the congregation. 
Numbers27:22 So Moses did just as Yahweh commanded him; and he took Joshua and had him stand before Eleazar the priest and before all the congregation. 
Numbers27:23 Then he laid his hands on him and commissioned him, just as Yahweh had spoken by the hand of Moses." 
Numbers28:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers28:2 “Command the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘You shall be careful to bring near My offering, My food for My offerings by fire, of a soothing aroma to Me, at their appointed time.’" 
Numbers28:3 And you shall say to them, ‘This is the offering by fire which you shall bring near to Yahweh: two male lambs one year old without blemish as a continual burnt offering every day." 
Numbers28:4 You shall offer the one lamb in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at twilight," 
Numbers28:5 also a tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a grain offering, mixed with a fourth of a hin of beaten oil." 
Numbers28:6 It is a continual burnt offering which was ordained in Mount Sinai as a soothing aroma, an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Numbers28:7 Then the drink offering with it shall be a fourth of a hin for each lamb, in the holy place you shall pour out a drink offering of strong drink to Yahweh." 
Numbers28:8 And the other lamb you shall offer at twilight; as the grain offering of the morning and as its drink offering, you shall offer it, an offering by fire, a soothing aroma to Yahweh." 
Numbers28:9 ‘Then on the sabbath day two male lambs one year old without blemish, and two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering, and its drink offering:" 
Numbers28:10 This is the burnt offering of every sabbath in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering. 
Numbers28:11 ‘Then at the beginning of each of your months you shall bring near a burnt offering to Yahweh: two bulls from the herd and one ram, seven male lambs one year old without blemish;" 
Numbers28:12 and three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering, for each bull; and two-tenths of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering, for the one ram;" 
Numbers28:13 and a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering for each lamb, for a burnt offering of a soothing aroma, an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Numbers28:14 And their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull and a third of a hin for the ram and a fourth of a hin for a lamb; this is the burnt offering of each month throughout the months of the year. 
Numbers28:15 And one male goat for a sin offering to Yahweh; it shall be offered with its drink offering in addition to the continual burnt offering. 
Numbers28:16 ‘Then on the fourteenth day of the first month shall be the Passover of Yahweh. 
Numbers28:17 And on the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast; unleavened bread shall be eaten for seven days. 
Numbers28:18 On the first day shall be a holy convocation; you shall do no laborious work. 
Numbers28:19 And you shall bring near an offering by fire, a burnt offering to Yahweh: two bulls from the herd and one ram and seven male lambs one year old; they shall be for you without blemish." 
Numbers28:20 Now as for their grain offering, you shall offer fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for a bull and two-tenths for the ram." 
Numbers28:21 A tenth of an ephah you shall offer for each of the seven lambs; 
Numbers28:22 and one male goat for a sin offering to make atonement for you. 
Numbers28:23 You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering." 
Numbers28:24 After this manner you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering by fire, of a soothing aroma to Yahweh; it shall be offered with its drink offering in addition to the continual burnt offering." 
Numbers28:25 Now on the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no laborious work. 
Numbers28:26 ‘Also on the day of the first fruits, when you bring near a new grain offering to Yahweh in your Feast of Weeks, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no laborious work." 
Numbers28:27 And you shall bring near a burnt offering for a soothing aroma to Yahweh: two bulls from the herd, one ram, seven male lambs one year old;" 
Numbers28:28 and their grain offering, fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, two-tenths for the one ram," 
Numbers28:29 a tenth for each of the seven lambs; 
Numbers28:30 also one male goat to make atonement for you. 
Numbers28:31 Besides the continual burnt offering and its grain offering, you shall offer them with their drink offerings. They shall be without blemish." 
Numbers29:1 ‘Now in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you shall also have a holy convocation; you shall do no laborious work. It will be to you a day for blowing trumpets." 
Numbers29:2 And you shall offer a burnt offering as a soothing aroma to Yahweh: one bull from the herd, one ram, and seven male lambs one year old without blemish;" 
Numbers29:3 also their grain offering, fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for the bull, two-tenths for the ram," 
Numbers29:4 and one-tenth for each of the seven lambs. 
Numbers29:5 And offer one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you," 
Numbers29:6 besides the burnt offering of the new moon and its grain offering, and the continual burnt offering and its grain offering, and their drink offerings, according to their legal judgment, for a soothing aroma, an offering by fire to Yahweh." 
Numbers29:7 ‘Then on the tenth day of this seventh month you shall have a holy convocation, and you shall humble yourselves; you shall not do any work." 
Numbers29:8 And you shall bring near a burnt offering to Yahweh as a soothing aroma: one bull from the herd, one ram, seven male lambs one year old, having them without blemish;" 
Numbers29:9 and their grain offering, fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for the bull, two-tenths for the one ram," 
Numbers29:10 a tenth for each of the seven lambs; 
Numbers29:11 one male goat for a sin offering, besides the sin offering of atonement and the continual burnt offering and its grain offering and their drink offerings." 
Numbers29:12 ‘Then on the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no laborious work, and you shall celebrate a feast to Yahweh for seven days." 
Numbers29:13 And you shall bring near a burnt offering, an offering by fire as a soothing aroma to Yahweh: thirteen bulls from the herd, two rams, fourteen male lambs one year old, which are without blemish;" 
Numbers29:14 and their grain offering, fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen bulls, two-tenths for each of the two rams," 
Numbers29:15 and a tenth for each of the fourteen lambs; 
Numbers29:16 and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering." 
Numbers29:17 ‘Then on the second day: twelve bulls from the herd, two rams, fourteen male lambs one year old without blemish;" 
Numbers29:18 and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams and for the lambs, by their number according to the legal judgment;" 
Numbers29:19 and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering and its grain offering and their drink offerings." 
Numbers29:20 ‘Then on the third day: eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs one year old without blemish;" 
Numbers29:21 and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams and for the lambs, by their number according to the legal judgment;" 
Numbers29:22 and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering." 
Numbers29:23 ‘Then on the fourth day: ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs one year old without blemish;" 
Numbers29:24 their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams and for the lambs, by their number according to the legal judgment;" 
Numbers29:25 and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offering." 
Numbers29:26 ‘Then on the fifth day: nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs one year old without blemish;" 
Numbers29:27 and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams and for the lambs, by their number according to the legal judgment;" 
Numbers29:28 and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering." 
Numbers29:29 ‘Then on the sixth day: eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs one year old without blemish;" 
Numbers29:30 and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams and for the lambs, by their number according to the legal judgment;" 
Numbers29:31 and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offerings." 
Numbers29:32 ‘Then on the seventh day: seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs one year old without blemish;" 
Numbers29:33 and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams and for the lambs, by their number according to the legal judgment;" 
Numbers29:34 and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offering." 
Numbers29:35 ‘On the eighth day you shall have a solemn assembly; you shall do no laborious work. 
Numbers29:36 But you shall bring near a burnt offering, an offering by fire, as a soothing aroma to Yahweh: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs one year old without blemish;" 
Numbers29:37 their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bull, for the ram and for the lambs, by their number according to the legal judgment;" 
Numbers29:38 and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering." 
Numbers29:39 ‘You shall offer these to Yahweh at your appointed times, besides your votive offerings and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings and for your grain offerings and for your drink offerings and for your peace offerings.’”" 
Numbers29:40 And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel according to all that Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
Numbers30:1 Then Moses spoke to the heads of the tribes of the sons of Israel, saying, “This is the word which Yahweh has commanded." 
Numbers30:2 If a man makes a vow to Yahweh or swears an oath to bind himself with a binding obligation, he shall not violate his word; he shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth." 
Numbers30:3 “Also if a woman makes a vow to Yahweh and binds herself by an obligation in her father’s house in her youth," 
Numbers30:4 and her father hears her vow and her obligation by which she has bound herself, and her father says nothing to her, then all her vows shall stand, and every obligation by which she has bound herself shall stand." 
Numbers30:5 But if her father should forbid her on the day he hears of it, none of her vows or her obligations by which she has bound herself shall stand; and Yahweh will pardon her because her father had forbidden her." 
Numbers30:6 “However, if she should marry while under her vows or the rash statement of her lips by which she has bound herself," 
Numbers30:7 and her husband hears of it and says nothing to her on the day he hears it, then her vows shall stand, and her obligations by which she has bound herself shall stand." 
Numbers30:8 But if, on the day her husband hears of it, he forbids her, then he shall annul her vow which she is under and the rash statement of her lips by which she has bound herself; and Yahweh will pardon her." 
Numbers30:9 “But the vow of a widow or of a divorced woman, everything by which she has bound herself, shall stand against her." 
Numbers30:10 However, if she vowed in her husband’s house or bound herself by an obligation with an oath," 
Numbers30:11 and her husband heard it but said nothing to her and did not forbid her, then all her vows shall stand, and every obligation by which she bound herself shall stand." 
Numbers30:12 But if her husband indeed annuls them on the day he hears them, then whatever proceeds out of her lips concerning her vows or concerning the obligation of herself shall not stand; her husband has annulled them, and Yahweh will pardon her." 
Numbers30:13 “Every vow and every binding oath to humble herself, her husband may cause it to stand, or her husband may annul it." 
Numbers30:14 But if her husband indeed says nothing to her from day to day, then he causes all her vows or all her obligations which are on her to stand; he has caused them to stand because he said nothing to her on the day he heard them." 
Numbers30:15 But if he indeed annuls them after he has heard them, then he shall bear her guilt.”" 
Numbers30:16 These are the statutes which Yahweh commanded Moses, as between a man and his wife, and as between a father and his daughter, while she is in her youth in her father’s house." 
Numbers31:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers31:2 “Take full vengeance for the sons of Israel on the Midianites; afterward you will be gathered to your people.” 
Numbers31:3 And Moses spoke to the people, saying, “Arm men from among you for the war, that they may go against Midian to execute Yahweh’s vengeance on Midian." 
Numbers31:4 One thousand from each tribe of all the tribes of Israel you shall send to the war.” 
Numbers31:5 So there were furnished from the thousands of Israel, one thousand from each tribe, twelve thousand armed for war." 
Numbers31:6 And Moses sent them, one thousand from each tribe, to the war, and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war with them, and the holy vessels and the trumpets for the alarm in his hand." 
Numbers31:7 So they made war against Midian, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses, and they killed every male." 
Numbers31:8 They killed the kings of Midian along with the rest of their slain: Evi and Rekem and Zur and Hur and Reba, the five kings of Midian; they also killed Balaam the son of Beor with the sword." 
Numbers31:9 And the sons of Israel captured the women of Midian and their little ones; and all their cattle and all their flocks and all their goods they plundered. 
Numbers31:10 Then they burned all their cities where they lived and all their camps with fire. 
Numbers31:11 And they took all the spoil and all the loot, both of man and of beast." 
Numbers31:12 And they brought the captives and the loot and the spoil to Moses and to Eleazar the priest and to the congregation of the sons of Israel, to the camp at the plains of Moab, which are by the Jordan opposite Jericho." 
Numbers31:13 And Moses and Eleazar the priest and all the leaders of the congregation went out to meet them outside the camp. 
Numbers31:14 And Moses was angry with the officers of the army, the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds, who had come from service in the war." 
Numbers31:15 So Moses said to them, “Have you spared all the women?" 
Numbers31:16 Behold, these caused the sons of Israel, through the word of Balaam, to act unfaithfully against Yahweh in the matter of Peor, so the plague was among the congregation of Yahweh." 
Numbers31:17 So now, kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman who has known man intimately." 
Numbers31:18 But all the girls who have not known man intimately, spare for yourselves." 
Numbers31:19 And you, camp outside the camp seven days; whoever has killed any person and whoever has touched any slain, purify yourselves, you and your captives, on the third day and on the seventh day." 
Numbers31:20 And you shall purify for yourselves every garment and every article of leather and all the work of goats’ hair and all articles of wood.” 
Numbers31:21 Then Eleazar the priest said to the men of war who had gone to battle, “This is the statute of the law which Yahweh has commanded Moses:" 
Numbers31:22 only the gold and the silver, the bronze, the iron, the tin and the lead," 
Numbers31:23 everything that can stand the fire, you shall pass through the fire, and it shall be clean, but it shall be purified with water for impurity. But whatever cannot stand the fire you shall pass through the water." 
Numbers31:24 And you shall wash your clothes on the seventh day and be clean, and afterward you may enter the camp.”" 
Numbers31:25 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers31:26 “You and Eleazar the priest and the heads of the fathers’ households of the congregation take a count of the loot that was captured, both of man and of animal;" 
Numbers31:27 and divide the loot between the warriors who went out to battle and all the congregation. 
Numbers31:28 And you shall exact a levy for Yahweh from the men of war who went out to battle, one in five hundred of the persons and of the cattle and of the donkeys and of the sheep;" 
Numbers31:29 take it from their half and give it to Eleazar the priest, as a contribution to Yahweh." 
Numbers31:30 And from the sons of Israel’s half, you shall take one drawn out of every fifty of the persons, of the cattle, of the donkeys, and of the sheep, from all the animals, and give them to the Levites who keep charge of the tabernacle of Yahweh.”" 
Numbers31:31 Moses and Eleazar the priest did just as Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
Numbers31:32 Now the loot that remained from the plunder which the men of war had plundered was 675,000 sheep," 
Numbers31:33 and 72,000 cattle," 
Numbers31:34 and 61,000 donkeys," 
Numbers31:35 and of human beings, of the women who had not known man intimately, all the persons were 32,000." 
Numbers31:36 And the half, the portion of those who went out to war, was as follows: the number of sheep was 337,500;" 
Numbers31:37 and the levy of Yahweh from the sheep was 675; 
Numbers31:38 and the cattle were 36,000, from which the levy of Yahweh was 72;" 
Numbers31:39 and the donkeys were 30,500, from which the levy of Yahweh was 61;" 
Numbers31:40 and the human beings were 16,000, from whom the levy of Yahweh was 32 persons." 
Numbers31:41 And Moses gave the levy, which was the contribution to Yahweh, to Eleazar the priest, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Numbers31:42 As for the sons of Israel’s half, which Moses separated from the men who had gone to war—" 
Numbers31:43 now the congregation’s half was 337,500 sheep," 
Numbers31:44 and 36,000 cattle," 
Numbers31:45 and 30,500 donkeys," 
Numbers31:46 and the human beings were 16,000—" 
Numbers31:47 and from the sons of Israel’s half, Moses took one drawn out of every fifty, both of man and of animals, and gave them to the Levites, who kept the responsibility of the tabernacle of Yahweh, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Numbers31:48 Then the officers who were over the thousands of the army, the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds, came near to Moses," 
Numbers31:49 and they said to Moses, “Your servants have taken a census of men of war who are in our charge, and no man of us is missing." 
Numbers31:50 So we have brought near as an offering to Yahweh what each man found—articles of gold, armlets and bracelets, signet rings, earrings and necklaces—to make atonement for ourselves before Yahweh.”" 
Numbers31:51 And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from them, all kinds of crafted articles." 
Numbers31:52 And all the gold from the contribution offering which they raised up in offering to Yahweh, from the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds, was 16,750 shekels." 
Numbers31:53 The men of war had taken plunder, every man for himself." 
Numbers31:54 So Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and they brought it to the tent of meeting as a memorial for the sons of Israel before Yahweh." 
Numbers32:1 Now the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad had an exceedingly large number of livestock. And they saw the land of Jazer and the land of Gilead, that it was indeed a place suitable for livestock," 
Numbers32:2 so the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuben came and spoke to Moses and to Eleazar the priest and to the leaders of the congregation, saying," 
Numbers32:3 “Ataroth, Dibon, Jazer, Nimrah, Heshbon, Elealeh, Sebam, Nebo, and Beon," 
Numbers32:4 the land, which Yahweh struck before the congregation of Israel, is a land for livestock, and your servants have livestock.”" 
Numbers32:5 And they said, “If we have found favor in your sight, let this land be given to your servants as a possession; do not take us across the Jordan.”" 
Numbers32:6 But Moses said to the sons of Gad and to the sons of Reuben, “Shall your brothers go to war while you yourselves sit here?" 
Numbers32:7 Now why are you discouraging the sons of Israel from crossing over into the land which Yahweh has given them? 
Numbers32:8 This is what your fathers did when I sent them from Kadesh-barnea to see the land. 
Numbers32:9 Indeed they went up to the valley of Eshcol and saw the land, and they discouraged the sons of Israel so that they did not go into the land which Yahweh had given them." 
Numbers32:10 So Yahweh’s anger burned in that day, and He swore an oath, saying," 
Numbers32:11 ‘None of the men who came up from Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; for they did not follow Me fully," 
Numbers32:12 except Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite and Joshua the son of Nun, for they have followed Yahweh fully.’" 
Numbers32:12 except Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite and Joshua the son of Nun, for they have followed Yahweh fully.’" 
Numbers32:13 So Yahweh’s anger burned against Israel, and He made them wander in the wilderness forty years, until the entire generation of those who had done evil in the sight of Yahweh was brought to an end." 
Numbers32:14 Now behold, you have risen up in your fathers’ place, a brood of sinful men, to add still more to the burning anger of Yahweh against Israel." 
Numbers32:15 For if you turn away from following Him, He will once more abandon them in the wilderness, and you will destroy all these people.”" 
Numbers32:16 Then they came near to him and said, “We will build here sheepfolds for our livestock and cities for our little ones;" 
Numbers32:17 but we ourselves will be armed ready to go before the sons of Israel, until we have brought them to their place, and our little ones live in the fortified cities because of the inhabitants of the land." 
Numbers32:18 We will not return to our homes until every one of the sons of Israel has possessed his inheritance. 
Numbers32:19 For we will not have an inheritance with them on the other side of the Jordan and beyond because our inheritance has fallen to us on this side of the Jordan east.” 
Numbers32:20 So Moses said to them, “If you will do this, if you will arm yourselves before Yahweh for the war," 
Numbers32:21 and all of you armed men cross over the Jordan before Yahweh until He has dispossessed His enemies from before Him," 
Numbers32:22 and the land is subdued before Yahweh, then afterward you shall return and be free of obligation toward Yahweh and toward Israel, and this land shall be yours for a possession before Yahweh." 
Numbers32:23 But if you will not do so, behold, you have sinned against Yahweh, and be sure your sin will find you out." 
Numbers32:24 Build yourselves cities for your little ones and sheepfolds for your sheep, and do what you have promised.”" 
Numbers32:25 And the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuben spoke to Moses, saying, “Your servants will do just as my lord commands." 
Numbers32:26 Our little ones, our wives, our livestock, and all our cattle shall remain there in the cities of Gilead;" 
Numbers32:27 but your servants, everyone who is armed for war, will cross over in the presence of Yahweh to battle, just as my lord says.”" 
Numbers32:28 So Moses gave a command concerning them to Eleazar the priest and to Joshua the son of Nun and to the heads of the fathers’ households of the tribes of the sons of Israel. 
Numbers32:28 So Moses gave a command concerning them to Eleazar the priest and to Joshua the son of Nun and to the heads of the fathers’ households of the tribes of the sons of Israel. 
Numbers32:29 And Moses said to them, “If the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuben, everyone who is armed for battle, will cross with you over the Jordan in the presence of Yahweh, and the land is subdued before you, then you shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession;" 
Numbers32:30 but if they will not cross over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.”" 
Numbers32:31 And the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuben answered, saying, “As Yahweh has said to your servants, so we will do." 
Numbers32:32 We ourselves will cross over armed in the presence of Yahweh into the land of Canaan, and the possession of our inheritance shall remain with us across the Jordan.”" 
Numbers32:33 So Moses gave to them, to the sons of Gad and to the sons of Reuben and to the half-tribe of Joseph’s son Manasseh, the kingdom of Sihon, king of the Amorites and the kingdom of Og, the king of Bashan, the land with its cities with their territories, the cities of the surrounding land." 
Numbers32:34 And the sons of Gad built Dibon and Ataroth and Aroer," 
Numbers32:35 and Atroth-shophan and Jazer and Jogbehah," 
Numbers32:36 and Beth-nimrah and Beth-haran as fortified cities, and sheepfolds for sheep." 
Numbers32:37 And the sons of Reuben built Heshbon and Elealeh and Kiriathaim," 
Numbers32:38 and Nebo and Baal-meon—their names being changed—and Sibmah, and they gave other names to the cities which they built." 
Numbers32:39 And the sons of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead and took it and dispossessed the Amorites who were in it. 
Numbers32:40 So Moses gave Gilead to Machir the son of Manasseh, and he lived in it." 
Numbers32:41 And Jair the son of Manasseh went and took its towns and called them Havvoth-jair. 
Numbers32:42 And Nobah went and took Kenath and its towns and called it Nobah after his own name. 
Numbers33:1 These are the journeys of the sons of Israel, by which they came out from the land of Egypt by their armies, by the hand of Moses and Aaron." 
Numbers33:2 And Moses wrote down their starting places according to their journeys by the command of Yahweh, and these are their journeys according to their starting places." 
Numbers33:3 They journeyed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the next day after the Passover the sons of Israel started out with a high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians," 
Numbers33:4 but the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn whom Yahweh had struck down among them. Yahweh had also executed judgments on their gods. 
Numbers33:5 Then the sons of Israel journeyed from Rameses and camped in Succoth. 
Numbers33:6 They journeyed from Succoth and camped in Etham, which is on the edge of the wilderness." 
Numbers33:7 They journeyed from Etham and turned back to Pi-hahiroth, which faces Baal-zephon, and they camped before Migdol." 
Numbers33:8 They journeyed from before Hahiroth and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness; and they went three days’ journey in the wilderness of Etham and camped at Marah. 
Numbers33:9 They journeyed from Marah and came to Elim; and in Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they camped there." 
Numbers33:10 They journeyed from Elim and camped by the Red Sea. 
Numbers33:11 They journeyed from the Red Sea and camped in the wilderness of Sin. 
Numbers33:12 They journeyed from the wilderness of Sin and camped at Dophkah. 
Numbers33:13 They journeyed from Dophkah and camped at Alush. 
Numbers33:14 They journeyed from Alush and camped at Rephidim; now it was there that the people had no water to drink. 
Numbers33:15 They journeyed from Rephidim and camped in the wilderness of Sinai. 
Numbers33:16 They journeyed from the wilderness of Sinai and camped at Kibroth-hattaavah. 
Numbers33:17 They journeyed from Kibroth-hattaavah and camped at Hazeroth. 
Numbers33:18 They journeyed from Hazeroth and camped at Rithmah. 
Numbers33:19 They journeyed from Rithmah and camped at Rimmon-perez. 
Numbers33:20 They journeyed from Rimmon-perez and camped at Libnah. 
Numbers33:21 They journeyed from Libnah and camped at Rissah. 
Numbers33:22 They journeyed from Rissah and camped in Kehelathah. 
Numbers33:23 They journeyed from Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shepher. 
Numbers33:24 They journeyed from Mount Shepher and camped at Haradah. 
Numbers33:25 They journeyed from Haradah and camped at Makheloth. 
Numbers33:26 They journeyed from Makheloth and camped at Tahath. 
Numbers33:27 They journeyed from Tahath and camped at Terah. 
Numbers33:28 They journeyed from Terah and camped at Mithkah. 
Numbers33:29 They journeyed from Mithkah and camped at Hashmonah. 
Numbers33:30 They journeyed from Hashmonah and camped at Moseroth. 
Numbers33:31 They journeyed from Moseroth and camped at Bene-jaakan. 
Numbers33:32 They journeyed from Bene-jaakan and camped at Hor-haggidgad. 
Numbers33:33 They journeyed from Hor-haggidgad and camped at Jotbathah. 
Numbers33:34 They journeyed from Jotbathah and camped at Abronah. 
Numbers33:35 They journeyed from Abronah and camped at Ezion-geber. 
Numbers33:36 They journeyed from Ezion-geber and camped in the wilderness of Zin, that is, Kadesh." 
Numbers33:37 They journeyed from Kadesh and camped at Mount Hor, at the edge of the land of Edom." 
Numbers33:38 Then Aaron the priest went up to Mount Hor at the command of Yahweh, and he died there in the fortieth year after the sons of Israel had come from the land of Egypt, on the first day in the fifth month." 
Numbers33:39 Now Aaron was 123 years old when he died on Mount Hor. 
Numbers33:40 Now the Canaanite, the king of Arad who lived in the Negev in the land of Canaan, heard when the sons of Israel were coming." 
Numbers33:41 Then they journeyed from Mount Hor and camped at Zalmonah. 
Numbers33:42 They journeyed from Zalmonah and camped at Punon. 
Numbers33:43 They journeyed from Punon and camped at Oboth. 
Numbers33:44 They journeyed from Oboth and camped at Iye-abarim, at the border of Moab." 
Numbers33:45 They journeyed from Iyim and camped at Dibon-gad. 
Numbers33:46 They journeyed from Dibon-gad and camped at Almon-diblathaim. 
Numbers33:47 They journeyed from Almon-diblathaim and camped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo." 
Numbers33:48 They journeyed from the mountains of Abarim and camped in the plains of Moab by the Jordan opposite Jericho. 
Numbers33:49 They camped by the Jordan, from Beth-jeshimoth as far as Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab." 
Numbers33:50 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan opposite Jericho, saying," 
Numbers33:51 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When you cross over the Jordan into the land of Canaan," 
Numbers33:52 then you shall dispossess all the inhabitants of the land from before you and destroy all their carved stones and destroy all their molten images and demolish all their high places; 
Numbers33:53 and you shall take possession of the land and inhabit it, for I have given the land to you to possess it." 
Numbers33:54 And you shall inherit the land by lot according to your families; to the larger you shall give a larger inheritance, and to the smaller you shall give a smaller inheritance. Wherever the lot falls to anyone, that shall be his. You shall inherit according to the tribes of your fathers." 
Numbers33:55 But if you do not dispossess the inhabitants of the land from before you, then it will be that those whom you let remain of them will become as pricks in your eyes and as thorns in your sides, and they will trouble you in the land which you inhabit." 
Numbers33:56 And it will be as I plan to do to them, so I will do to you.’”" 
Numbers34:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers34:2 “Command the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When you enter the land of Canaan, this is the land that shall fall to you as an inheritance, even the land of Canaan according to its borders." 
Numbers34:3 And your southern sector shall extend from the wilderness of Zin along the side of Edom, and your southern border shall extend from the end of the Salt Sea eastward." 
Numbers34:4 Then your border shall turn from the south to the ascent of Akrabbim and continue to Zin, and its termination shall be to the south of Kadesh-barnea; and it shall reach Hazaraddar and continue to Azmon." 
Numbers34:5 And the border shall turn from Azmon to the brook of Egypt, and its termination shall be at the sea." 
Numbers34:6 ‘And as for the west border, you shall have the Great Sea, that is, its coastline; this shall be your west border." 
Numbers34:7 ‘And this shall be your north border: you shall draw your border line from the Great Sea to Mount Hor. 
Numbers34:8 You shall draw a line from Mount Hor to Lebo-hamath, and the termination of the border shall be at Zedad;" 
Numbers34:9 and the border shall proceed to Ziphron, and its termination shall be at Hazar-enan. This shall be your north border." 
Numbers34:10 ‘For your east border you shall also draw a line from Hazar-enan to Shepham," 
Numbers34:11 and the border shall go down from Shepham to Riblah on the east side of Ain; and the border shall go down and reach to the slope on the east side of the Sea of Chinnereth. 
Numbers34:12 And the border shall go down to the Jordan, and its termination shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land according to its borders all around.’”" 
Numbers34:13 So Moses commanded the sons of Israel, saying, “This is the land that you shall inherit by lot among you as a possession, which Yahweh has commanded to give to the nine and a half tribes." 
Numbers34:14 For the tribe of the sons of Reuben have received theirs according to their fathers’ households, and the tribe of the sons of Gad according to their fathers’ households, and the half-tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance." 
Numbers34:15 The two and a half tribes have received their inheritance across the Jordan opposite Jericho to the east toward the sunrise.” 
Numbers34:16 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers34:17 “These are the names of the men who shall apportion the land to you for inheritance: Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun. 
Numbers34:17 “These are the names of the men who shall apportion the land to you for inheritance: Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun. 
Numbers34:18 And you shall take one leader of every tribe to apportion the land for inheritance. 
Numbers34:19 Now these are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh." 
Numbers34:20 Of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Samuel the son of Ammihud." 
Numbers34:21 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon." 
Numbers34:22 Of the tribe of the sons of Dan a leader, Bukki the son of Jogli." 
Numbers34:23 Of the sons of Joseph: of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh a leader, Hanniel the son of Ephod." 
Numbers34:24 Of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim a leader, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan." 
Numbers34:25 Of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun a leader, Elizaphan the son of Parnach." 
Numbers34:26 Of the tribe of the sons of Issachar a leader, Paltiel the son of Azzan." 
Numbers34:27 Of the tribe of the sons of Asher a leader, Ahihud the son of Shelomi." 
Numbers34:28 Of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali a leader, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.”" 
Numbers34:29 These are those whom Yahweh commanded to apportion the inheritance to the sons of Israel in the land of Canaan. 
Numbers35:1 Now Yahweh spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan opposite Jericho, saying," 
Numbers35:2 “Command the sons of Israel that they give to the Levites from the inheritance of their possession cities to live in; and you shall give to the Levites pasture lands around the cities. 
Numbers35:3 And the cities shall be theirs to live in; and their pasture lands shall be for their cattle and for their herds and for all their beasts. 
Numbers35:4 “And the pasture lands of the cities which you shall give to the Levites shall extend from the wall of the city outward one thousand cubits around. 
Numbers35:5 You shall also measure outside the city on the east side two thousand cubits, and on the south side two thousand cubits, and on the west side two thousand cubits, and on the north side two thousand cubits, with the city in the center. This shall become theirs as pasture lands for the cities." 
Numbers35:6 And the cities which you shall give to the Levites shall be the six cities of refuge, which you shall give for the manslayer to flee to; and in addition to them you shall give forty-two cities." 
Numbers35:7 All the cities which you shall give to the Levites shall be forty-eight cities, together with their pasture lands." 
Numbers35:8 Now as for the cities which you shall give from the possession of the sons of Israel, you shall take more from the larger, and you shall take less from the smaller; each shall give some of his cities to the Levites in proportion to his possession which he inherits.”" 
Numbers35:9 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying," 
Numbers35:10 “Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When you cross the Jordan into the land of Canaan," 
Numbers35:11 then you shall select for yourselves cities to be your cities of refuge, that the manslayer who has struck down any person unintentionally may flee there." 
Numbers35:12 And the cities shall be for you as a refuge from the avenger, so that the manslayer will not die until he stands before the congregation for judgment." 
Numbers35:13 And the cities which you are to give shall be your six cities of refuge. 
Numbers35:14 You shall give three cities across the Jordan and three cities in the land of Canaan; they are to be cities of refuge. 
Numbers35:15 These six cities shall be for refuge for the sons of Israel and for the sojourner and for the foreign resident among them; that anyone who strikes a person down unintentionally may flee there. 
Numbers35:16 ‘But if he struck him down with an iron object, so that he died, he is a murderer; the murderer shall surely be put to death." 
Numbers35:17 And if he struck him down with a stone in the hand, by which he would die, and as a result he died, he is a murderer; the murderer shall surely be put to death." 
Numbers35:18 Or if he struck him with a wooden object in the hand, by which he would die, and as a result he died, he is a murderer; the murderer shall surely be put to death." 
Numbers35:19 The blood avenger himself shall put the murderer to death; he shall put him to death when he meets him. 
Numbers35:20 And if he pushed him of hatred or threw something at him lying in wait and as a result he died," 
Numbers35:21 or if he struck him down with his hand in enmity, and as a result he died, the one who struck him shall surely be put to death; he is a murderer; the blood avenger shall put the murderer to death when he meets him." 
Numbers35:22 ‘But if he pushed him suddenly without enmity or threw something at him without lying in wait," 
Numbers35:23 or with any stone—by which one might die, yet without seeing—and it fell upon him, and he died, but he was not his enemy nor seeking his injury," 
Numbers35:24 then the congregation shall judge between the slayer and the blood avenger according to these legal judgments. 
Numbers35:25 And the congregation shall deliver the manslayer from the hand of the blood avenger, and the congregation shall restore him to his city of refuge to which he fled; and he shall live in it until the death of the high priest who was anointed with the holy oil." 
Numbers35:26 But if the manslayer at any time goes beyond the border of his city of refuge to which he may flee," 
Numbers35:27 and the blood avenger finds him outside the border of his city of refuge, and the blood avenger kills the manslayer, he will not be guilty of blood" 
Numbers35:28 because he should have remained in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest. But after the death of the high priest the manslayer shall return to the land of his possession. 
Numbers35:29 ‘And these things shall be for a statutory judgment to you throughout your generations in all your places of habitation. 
Numbers35:30 ‘If anyone strikes down a person, the murderer shall be put to death at the mouth of witnesses, but no person shall be put to death on the testimony of one witness." 
Numbers35:31 Moreover, you shall not take ransom for the life of a murderer who is guilty of death, but he shall surely be put to death." 
Numbers35:32 And you shall not take ransom for him who has fled to his city of refuge, that he may return to live in the land before the death of the priest." 
Numbers35:33 So you shall not pollute the land in which you are; for blood pollutes the land, and no propitiation can be made for the land for the blood that is shed on it, except by the blood of him who shed it." 
Numbers35:34 And you shall not defile the land in which you live, in the midst of which I dwell; for I Yahweh am dwelling in the midst of the sons of Israel.’”" 
Numbers36:1 And the heads of the fathers’ households of the family of the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near and spoke before Moses and before the leaders, the heads of the fathers’ households of the sons of Israel," 
Numbers36:2 and they said, “Yahweh commanded my lord to give the land by lot to the sons of Israel as an inheritance, and my lord was commanded by Yahweh to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters." 
Numbers36:3 But if they marry one of the sons of the other tribes of the sons of Israel, their inheritance will be withdrawn from the inheritance of our fathers and will be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they belong; thus it will be withdrawn from our allotted inheritance." 
Numbers36:4 And when the jubilee of the sons of Israel comes, then their inheritance will be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they belong; so their inheritance will be withdrawn from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.”" 
Numbers36:5 Then Moses commanded the sons of Israel according to the word of Yahweh, saying, “The tribe of the sons of Joseph are right in their statements." 
Numbers36:6 This is what Yahweh has commanded concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, ‘Let them marry whoever is good in their sight; only they must marry within the family of the tribe of their father.’" 
Numbers36:7 Thus no inheritance of the sons of Israel shall be transferred from tribe to tribe, for the sons of Israel shall each hold to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers." 
Numbers36:8 And every daughter who comes into possession of an inheritance of any tribe of the sons of Israel shall be wife to one of the family of the tribe of her father, so that the sons of Israel each may possess the inheritance of his fathers." 
Numbers36:9 Thus no inheritance shall be transferred from one tribe to another tribe, for the tribes of the sons of Israel shall each hold to his own inheritance.”" 
Numbers36:10 Just as Yahweh had commanded Moses, so the daughters of Zelophehad did:" 
Numbers36:11 And Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad married their uncles’ sons." 
Numbers36:12 They married those from the families of the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained with the tribe of the family of their father." 
Numbers36:13 These are the commandments and the judgments which Yahweh commanded to the sons of Israel by the hand of Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan opposite Jericho. 
Deuteronomy1:1 These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel across the Jordan in the wilderness, in the Arabah opposite Suph, between Paran and Tophel and Laban and Hazeroth and Dizahab." 
Deuteronomy1:2 It is eleven days’ journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to Kadesh-barnea. 
Deuteronomy1:3 Now it happened, in the fortieth year, on the first day of the eleventh month, Moses spoke to the children of Israel, according to all that Yahweh had commanded him to give to them," 
Deuteronomy1:4 after he had struck down Sihon the king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth and Edrei." 
Deuteronomy1:5 Across the Jordan in the land of Moab, Moses undertook to expound this law, saying," 
Deuteronomy1:6 “Yahweh our God spoke to us at Horeb, saying, ‘You have stayed long enough at this mountain." 
Deuteronomy1:7 Turn and set out, and go to the hill country of the Amorites, and to all their neighbors in the Arabah, in the hill country and in the Shephelah and in the Negev and by the seacoast, the land of the Canaanites, and Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates." 
Deuteronomy1:8 See, I have given over the land before you; go in and possess the land which Yahweh swore to give to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to them and to their seed after them.’" 
Deuteronomy1:9 “And I spoke to you at that time, saying, ‘I am not able to bear the burden of you alone." 
Deuteronomy1:10 Yahweh your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are this day like the stars of heaven in number." 
Deuteronomy1:11 May Yahweh, the God of your fathers, increase you a thousand-fold more than you are and bless you, just as He has promised you!" 
Deuteronomy1:12 How can I alone bear the load and burden of you and your strife? 
Deuteronomy1:13 Choose wise and understanding and experienced men from your tribes, and I will appoint them as your heads.’" 
Deuteronomy1:14 Then you answered me and said, ‘The thing which you have said to do is good.’" 
Deuteronomy1:15 So I took the heads of your tribes, wise and experienced men, and gave them as heads over you, leaders of thousands and of hundreds, of fifties and of tens, and officers for your tribes." 
Deuteronomy1:16 “Then I commanded your judges at that time, saying, ‘Hear the cases between your brothers, and judge righteously between a man and his brother or the sojourner who is with him." 
Deuteronomy1:17 You shall not show partiality in judgment; you shall hear the small and the great alike. You shall not fear man, for the judgment is God’s. The case that is too hard for you, you shall bring to me, and I will hear it.’" 
Deuteronomy1:18 And I commanded you at that time all the things that you should do. 
Deuteronomy1:19 “Then we set out from Horeb and went through all that great and fearsome wilderness which you saw on the way to the hill country of the Amorites, just as Yahweh our God had commanded us; and we came to Kadesh-barnea." 
Deuteronomy1:20 And I said to you, ‘You have come to the hill country of the Amorites which Yahweh our God is about to give us." 
Deuteronomy1:21 See, Yahweh your God has given over the land before you; go up, take possession, as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has spoken to you. Do not fear or be dismayed.’" 
Deuteronomy1:22 “Then all of you came near to me and said, ‘Let us send men before us, that they may search out the land for us and bring back to us word of the way by which we should go up and the cities which we shall enter.’" 
Deuteronomy1:23 And the thing was good in my sight, and I took twelve of your men, one man for each tribe." 
Deuteronomy1:24 Then they turned and went up into the hill country and came to the valley of Eshcol and spied it out. 
Deuteronomy1:25 Then they took some of the fruit of the land in their hands and brought it down to us; and they brought word back to us and said, ‘It is a good land which Yahweh our God is about to give us.’" 
Deuteronomy1:26 “Yet you were not willing to go up, but rebelled against the command of Yahweh your God;" 
Deuteronomy1:27 and you grumbled in your tents and said, ‘Because Yahweh hates us, He has brought us out of the land of Egypt to give us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us." 
Deuteronomy1:28 Where can we go up? Our brothers have made our hearts melt, saying, “The people are bigger and taller than we; the cities are large and fortified to heaven. And moreover, we saw the sons of the Anakim there.”’" 
Deuteronomy1:29 Then I said to you, ‘Do not be in dread, nor fear them." 
Deuteronomy1:30 Yahweh your God, who goes before you, will Himself fight on your behalf, just as He did for you in Egypt before your eyes," 
Deuteronomy1:31 and in the wilderness where you saw how Yahweh your God carried you, just as a man carries his son, in all the way which you have walked until you came to this place.’" 
Deuteronomy1:32 But for all this, you did not believe Yahweh your God," 
Deuteronomy1:33 who goes before you on your way, to spy out a place for you to encamp, in fire by night and cloud by day, to show you the way in which you should go." 
Deuteronomy1:34 “Then Yahweh heard the sound of your words, and He was angry and swore an oath, saying," 
Deuteronomy1:35 ‘Not one of these men, this evil generation, shall see the good land which I swore to give your fathers," 
Deuteronomy1:36 except Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it, and to him and to his sons I will give the land on which he has set foot, because he has followed Yahweh fully.’" 
Deuteronomy1:37 Yahweh was angry with me also on your account, saying, ‘Not even you shall enter there." 
Deuteronomy1:38 Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall enter there; strengthen him, for he will cause Israel to inherit it." 
Deuteronomy1:38 Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall enter there; strengthen him, for he will cause Israel to inherit it." 
Deuteronomy1:39 Moreover, your little ones who you said would become plunder, and your sons, who this day have no knowledge of good or evil, shall enter there, and I will give it to them, and they shall possess it." 
Deuteronomy1:40 But as for you, turn around and set out for the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.’" 
Deuteronomy1:41 “Then you said to me, ‘We have sinned against Yahweh; we will indeed go up and fight, just as Yahweh our God commanded us.’ And every man of you girded on his weapons of war and regarded it as easy to go up into the hill country." 
Deuteronomy1:42 And Yahweh said to me, ‘Say to them, “Do not go up and do not fight—for I am not among you—so that you are not defeated before your enemies.”’" 
Deuteronomy1:43 So I spoke to you, but you would not listen. Instead you rebelled against the command of Yahweh and acted presumptuously and went up into the hill country." 
Deuteronomy1:44 And the Amorites who lived in that hill country came out to meet you and pursued you as bees do and crushed you from Seir to Hormah. 
Deuteronomy1:45 Then you returned and wept before Yahweh; but Yahweh did not listen to your voice nor give ear to you. 
Deuteronomy1:46 So you remained in Kadesh many days, according to the days that you remained there." 
Deuteronomy2:1 “Then we turned and set out for the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea, as Yahweh spoke to me, and circled Mount Seir for many days." 
Deuteronomy2:2 And Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Deuteronomy2:3 ‘You have circled this mountain long enough. Now turn north," 
Deuteronomy2:4 and command the people, saying, “You are going to pass through the territory of your brothers the sons of Esau who live in Seir; and they will be afraid of you. So be very careful;" 
Deuteronomy2:5 do not provoke them, for I will not give you any of their land, even as little as a footstep because I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession." 
Deuteronomy2:6 You shall buy food from them with money so that you may eat, and you shall also bargain with them for water with money so that you may drink." 
Deuteronomy2:7 For Yahweh your God has blessed you in all the work of your hand; He has known your wanderings through this great wilderness. These forty years Yahweh your God has been with you; you have not lacked a thing.”’ 
Deuteronomy2:8 “So we passed beyond our brothers the sons of Esau, who live in Seir, away from the Arabah road, away from Elath and from Ezion-geber. And we turned and passed through by the way of the wilderness of Moab." 
Deuteronomy2:9 Then Yahweh said to me, ‘Do not harass Moab, nor provoke them to war, for I will not give you any of their land as a possession because I have given Ar to the sons of Lot as a possession.’" 
Deuteronomy2:10 (The Emim lived there formerly, a people as great, numerous, and tall as the Anakim." 
Deuteronomy2:11 Like the Anakim, they are also regarded as Rephaim, but the Moabites call them Emim." 
Deuteronomy2:12 Now the Horites formerly lived in Seir, but the sons of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them from before them and settled in their place, just as Israel would do to the land of their possession which Yahweh gave to them.)" 
Deuteronomy2:13 ‘Now arise and cross over the brook Zered yourselves.’ So we crossed over the brook Zered. 
Deuteronomy2:14 Now the time that it took for us to come from Kadesh-barnea until we crossed over the brook Zered was thirty-eight years, until all the generation of the men of war came to an end from within the camp, as Yahweh had sworn to them." 
Deuteronomy2:15 Moreover the hand of Yahweh was against them, to bring them into confusion from within the camp until they all came to an end." 
Deuteronomy2:16 “So it happened when all the men of war had come to an end in death from among the people," 
Deuteronomy2:17 that Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Deuteronomy2:18 ‘Today you are about to cross over Ar, the border of Moab." 
Deuteronomy2:19 And you will come opposite the sons of Ammon. Do not harass them nor provoke them, for I will not give you any of the land of the sons of Ammon as a possession because I have given it to the sons of Lot as a possession.’" 
Deuteronomy2:20 (It is also regarded as the land of the Rephaim, for Rephaim formerly lived in it, but the Ammonites call them Zamzummin," 
Deuteronomy2:21 a people as great, numerous, and tall as the Anakim, but Yahweh destroyed them before them. And they dispossessed them and settled in their place," 
Deuteronomy2:22 just as He did for the sons of Esau, who live in Seir, when He destroyed the Horites from before them; they dispossessed them and settled in their place even to this day." 
Deuteronomy2:23 And the Avvim, who lived in villages as far as Gaza, the Caphtorim who came from Caphtor, destroyed them and lived in their place.)" 
Deuteronomy2:24 ‘Arise, set out, and pass through the valley of Arnon. Look! I have given Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land into your hand; begin to take possession and provoke him to battle." 
Deuteronomy2:25 This day I will begin to put the dread and fear of you upon the peoples everywhere under the heavens, who, when they hear the report of you, will tremble and be in anguish because of you.’" 
Deuteronomy2:26 “So I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying," 
Deuteronomy2:27 ‘Let me pass through your land, I will go only on the highway; I will not turn aside to the right or to the left." 
Deuteronomy2:28 You will sell me food for money so that I may eat, and give me water for money so that I may drink; only let me pass through on foot," 
Deuteronomy2:29 just as the sons of Esau who live in Seir and the Moabites who live in Ar did for me, until I cross over the Jordan into the land which Yahweh our God is giving to us.’" 
Deuteronomy2:30 But Sihon king of Heshbon was not willing for us to pass through his land, for Yahweh your God stiffened his spirit and made his heart obstinate, in order to give him over into your hand, as he is today." 
Deuteronomy2:31 And Yahweh said to me, ‘See, I have begun to give Sihon and his land over to you. Begin to possess, so that you may fully possess his land.’" 
Deuteronomy2:32 “Then Sihon with all his people came out to meet us in battle at Jahaz. 
Deuteronomy2:33 But Yahweh our God gave him over to us, and we struck him down with his sons and all his people." 
Deuteronomy2:34 So we captured all his cities at that time and devoted to destruction the men, women, and little ones of every city. We left no survivor remaining." 
Deuteronomy2:35 We took only the animals as our plunder and the spoil of the cities which we had captured. 
Deuteronomy2:36 From Aroer which is on the edge of the valley of Arnon and from the city which is in the valley, even to Gilead, there was not a town that was too high for us; Yahweh our God gave all over to us." 
Deuteronomy2:37 Only you did not go near to the land of the sons of Ammon, all along the river Jabbok and the cities of the hill country, and wherever Yahweh our God had commanded us." 
Deuteronomy3:1 “Then we turned and went up the road to Bashan, and Og king of Bashan, with all his people, came out to meet us in battle at Edrei." 
Deuteronomy3:2 But Yahweh said to me, ‘Do not fear him, for I have given him and all his people and his land over into your hand; and you shall do to him just as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.’" 
Deuteronomy3:3 So Yahweh our God also gave Og, king of Bashan, with all his people over into our hand, and we struck them until there was no survivor remaining for him." 
Deuteronomy3:4 And we captured all his cities at that time; there was not a town which we did not take from them: sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan." 
Deuteronomy3:5 All these were cities fortified with high walls, gates and bars, besides a great many unwalled towns." 
Deuteronomy3:6 And we devoted them to destruction, as we did to Sihon king of Heshbon, devoting to destruction the men, women, and little ones of every city." 
Deuteronomy3:7 But all the animals and the spoil of the cities we took as our plunder. 
Deuteronomy3:8 “Thus we took the land at that time from the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, from the valley of Arnon to Mount Hermon" 
Deuteronomy3:9 (Sidonians call Hermon Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir):" 
Deuteronomy3:10 all the cities of the plateau and all Gilead and all Bashan, as far as Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan." 
Deuteronomy3:11 (For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of the Rephaim. Behold, his bedstead was an iron bedstead; it is in Rabbah of the sons of Ammon. Its length was nine cubits, and its width four cubits by ordinary cubit.)" 
Deuteronomy3:12 “So we took possession of this land at that time. From Aroer, which is by the valley of Arnon, and half the hill country of Gilead and its cities I gave to the Reubenites and to the Gadites." 
Deuteronomy3:13 And the rest of Gilead and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half-tribe of Manasseh, all the region of Argob. (Concerning all Bashan, it is called the land of Rephaim." 
Deuteronomy3:14 Jair the son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob as far as the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites and called it—that is, Bashan—after his own name, Havvoth-jair, as it is to this day.)" 
Deuteronomy3:15 And to Machir I gave Gilead. 
Deuteronomy3:16 And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave from Gilead even as far as the valley of Arnon, the middle of the valley as a border and as far as the river Jabbok, the border of the sons of Ammon;" 
Deuteronomy3:17 the Arabah also, with the Jordan as a border, from Chinnereth even as far as the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, at the foot of the slopes of Pisgah on the east." 
Deuteronomy3:18 “Then I commanded you at that time, saying, ‘Yahweh your God has given you this land to possess it; all you men of valor shall cross over armed before your brothers, the sons of Israel." 
Deuteronomy3:19 But your wives and your little ones and your livestock (I know that you have much livestock) shall remain in your cities which I have given you," 
Deuteronomy3:20 until Yahweh gives rest to your brothers as to you, and they also possess the land which Yahweh your God will give them beyond the Jordan. Then you may return, every man to his possession which I have given you.’" 
Deuteronomy3:21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, ‘Your eyes have seen all that Yahweh your God has done to these two kings; so Yahweh shall do to all the kingdoms into which you are about to cross." 
Deuteronomy3:21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, ‘Your eyes have seen all that Yahweh your God has done to these two kings; so Yahweh shall do to all the kingdoms into which you are about to cross." 
Deuteronomy3:22 Do not fear them, for Yahweh your God is the one fighting for you.’" 
Deuteronomy3:23 “I also pleaded with Yahweh at that time, saying," 
Deuteronomy3:24 ‘O Lord Yahweh, You have begun to show Your slave Your greatness and Your strong hand; for what god is there in heaven or on earth who can do such works and mighty acts as Yours?" 
Deuteronomy3:25 Let me, I pray, cross over and see the good land that is beyond the Jordan, that good hill country and Lebanon.’" 
Deuteronomy3:26 But Yahweh was angry with me on your account and would not listen to me; and Yahweh said to me, ‘Enough! Speak to Me no more of this matter." 
Deuteronomy3:27 Go up to the top of Pisgah and lift up your eyes to the west and north and south and east, and see it with your eyes, for you shall not cross over this Jordan." 
Deuteronomy3:28 But command Joshua and strengthen him and encourage him, for he shall go across at the head of this people, and he will cause them to inherit the land which you will see.’" 
Deuteronomy3:28 But command Joshua and strengthen him and encourage him, for he shall go across at the head of this people, and he will cause them to inherit the land which you will see.’" 
Deuteronomy3:29 So we remained in the valley opposite Beth-peor. 
Deuteronomy4:1 “So now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and the judgments which I am teaching you to do, so that you may live and go in and take possession of the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, is giving you." 
Deuteronomy4:2 You shall not add to the word which I am commanding you, nor take away from it, that you may keep the commandments of Yahweh your God which I am commanding you." 
Deuteronomy4:3 Your eyes have seen what Yahweh has done in the case of Baal-peor, for all the men who walked after Baal-peor, Yahweh your God has destroyed them from among you." 
Deuteronomy4:4 But you who clung to Yahweh your God are alive today, every one of you." 
Deuteronomy4:5 “See, I have taught you statutes and judgments just as Yahweh my God commanded me, that you should do thus in the land where you are entering to possess it." 
Deuteronomy4:6 You shall keep and do them, for that is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who will hear all these statutes and say, ‘Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.’" 
Deuteronomy4:7 For what great nation is there that has a god so near to it as is Yahweh our God whenever we call on Him? 
Deuteronomy4:8 Or what great nation is there that has statutes and judgments as righteous as this whole law which I am setting before you today? 
Deuteronomy4:9 “Only keep yourself and keep your soul very carefully, lest you forget the things which your eyes have seen and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. But make them known to your sons and to your grandsons." 
Deuteronomy4:10 Remember the day you stood before Yahweh your God at Horeb, when Yahweh said to me, ‘Assemble the people to Me, that I may cause them to hear My words so they may learn to fear Me all the days they live on the earth, and that they may teach their children.’" 
Deuteronomy4:11 And you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain, and the mountain burned with fire to the very heart of the heavens: darkness, cloud, and dense gloom." 
Deuteronomy4:12 Then Yahweh spoke to you from the midst of the fire; you heard the sound of words, but you saw no form—only a voice." 
Deuteronomy4:13 So He declared to you His covenant which He commanded you to do, that is, the Ten Commandments; and He wrote them on two tablets of stone." 
Deuteronomy4:14 And Yahweh commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments, that you might do them in the land where you are going over to possess it." 
Deuteronomy4:15 “So keep your souls very carefully, since you did not see any form on the day Yahweh spoke to you at Horeb from the midst of the fire," 
Deuteronomy4:16 lest you act corruptly and make a graven image for yourselves in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female," 
Deuteronomy4:17 the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the sky," 
Deuteronomy4:18 the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water below the earth," 
Deuteronomy4:19 and lest you lift up your eyes to heaven and see the sun and the moon and the stars, all the host of heaven, and be drawn away and worship them and serve them, those which Yahweh your God has apportioned for all the peoples under the whole heaven." 
Deuteronomy4:20 But Yahweh has taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace, from Egypt, to be a people for His own inheritance, as today." 
Deuteronomy4:21 “Now Yahweh was angry with me on your account and swore that I would not cross the Jordan, and that I would not enter the good land which Yahweh your God is giving you as an inheritance." 
Deuteronomy4:22 For I will die in this land, I shall not cross the Jordan, but you shall cross and take possession of this good land." 
Deuteronomy4:23 So keep yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of Yahweh your God which He cut with you and make for yourselves a graven image in the form of anything against which Yahweh your God has commanded you." 
Deuteronomy4:24 For Yahweh your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God." 
Deuteronomy4:25 “When you become the father of children and children’s children and remain long in the land and act corruptly and make a graven image in the form of anything and do that which is evil in the sight of Yahweh your God so as to provoke Him to anger," 
Deuteronomy4:26 I call heaven and earth to witness against you today, that you will surely perish quickly from the land where you are going over the Jordan to possess it. You shall not prolong your days on it, but will be utterly destroyed." 
Deuteronomy4:27 And Yahweh will scatter you among the peoples, and you will remain few in number among the nations where Yahweh drives you." 
Deuteronomy4:28 And there you will serve gods, the work of man’s hands, wood and stone, which neither see nor hear nor eat nor smell." 
Deuteronomy4:29 But from there you will seek Yahweh your God, and you will find Him, for you will search for Him with all your heart and all your soul." 
Deuteronomy4:30 When you are in distress and all these things have come upon you, in the last days you will return to Yahweh your God and listen to His voice." 
Deuteronomy4:31 For Yahweh your God is a compassionate God; He will not fail you nor destroy you nor forget the covenant with your fathers which He swore to them. 
Deuteronomy4:32 “Indeed, ask now concerning the former days which were before you, since the day that God created man on the earth, and inquire from one end of the heavens to the other. Has anything been done like this great thing, or has anything been heard like it?" 
Deuteronomy4:33 Has any people heard the voice of God speaking from the midst of the fire, as you have heard it, and lived?" 
Deuteronomy4:34 Or has a god tried to go to take for himself a nation from within another nation with trials, with signs and wonders and with war and with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm and with great terrors, as Yahweh your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?" 
Deuteronomy4:35 To you it was shown that you might know that Yahweh, He is God; there is no other besides Him." 
Deuteronomy4:36 Out of the heavens He caused you to hear His voice to discipline you; and on earth He caused you to see His great fire, and you heard His words from the midst of the fire." 
Deuteronomy4:37 Because He loved your fathers, therefore He chose their seed after them. And He personally brought you from Egypt by His great power," 
Deuteronomy4:38 dispossessing before you nations greater and mightier than you, to bring you in and to give you their land for an inheritance, as it is today." 
Deuteronomy4:39 Know therefore today, and take it to your heart, that Yahweh, He is God in heaven above and on the earth below; there is no other." 
Deuteronomy4:40 So you shall keep His statutes and His commandments which I am commanding you today, that it may go well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days on the land which Yahweh your God is giving you for all the days.”" 
Deuteronomy4:41 Then Moses set apart three cities across the Jordan to the east toward the sunrise," 
Deuteronomy4:42 that a manslayer might flee there, who slew his neighbor without premeditation, not hating him previously; so he shall flee to one of these cities that he might live:" 
Deuteronomy4:43 Bezer in the wilderness on the plateau for the Reubenites, and Ramoth in Gilead for the Gadites, and Golan in Bashan for the Manassites." 
Deuteronomy4:44 Now this is the law which Moses set before the sons of Israel; 
Deuteronomy4:45 these are the testimonies and the statutes and the judgments which Moses spoke to the sons of Israel when they came out from Egypt," 
Deuteronomy4:46 across the Jordan, in the valley opposite Beth-peor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites who lived at Heshbon, whom Moses and the sons of Israel struck down when they came out from Egypt." 
Deuteronomy4:47 And they took possession of his land and the land of Og king of Bashan, the two kings of the Amorites, who were across the Jordan to the east toward the sunrise," 
Deuteronomy4:48 from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of Arnon, even as far as Mount Sion (that is, Hermon)," 
Deuteronomy4:49 with all the Arabah across the Jordan to the east, even as far as the sea of the Arabah, at the foot of the slopes of Pisgah." 
Deuteronomy5:1 Then Moses summoned all Israel and said to them: “Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the judgments which I am speaking today in your hearing, that you may learn them and be careful to do them." 
Deuteronomy5:2 Yahweh our God cut a covenant with us at Horeb. 
Deuteronomy5:3 Yahweh did not cut this covenant with our fathers, but with us, with all those of us alive here today." 
Deuteronomy5:4 Yahweh spoke to you face to face at the mountain from the midst of the fire. 
Deuteronomy5:5 I was standing between Yahweh and you at that time, to declare to you the word of Yahweh; for you were afraid because of the fire and did not go up the mountain. He said," 
Deuteronomy5:6 ‘I am Yahweh your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery." 
Deuteronomy5:7 ‘You shall have no other gods before Me. 
Deuteronomy5:8 ‘You shall not make for yourself an idol—any likeness of what is in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the water under the earth. 
Deuteronomy5:9 You shall not worship them or serve them; for I, Yahweh your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and on the third and the fourth generations of those who hate Me," 
Deuteronomy5:10 but showing lovingkindness to thousands, to those who love Me and keep My commandments." 
Deuteronomy5:11 ‘You shall not take the name of Yahweh your God in vain, for Yahweh will not leave him unpunished who takes His name in vain." 
Deuteronomy5:12 ‘Observe the sabbath day to keep it holy, as Yahweh your God commanded you." 
Deuteronomy5:13 Six days you shall labor and do all your work," 
Deuteronomy5:14 but the seventh day is a sabbath of Yahweh your God; in it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter or your male slave or your female slave or your ox or your donkey or any of your cattle or your sojourner who is within your gates, so that your male slave and your female slave may rest as well as you." 
Deuteronomy5:15 You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and Yahweh your God brought you out of there with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm; therefore Yahweh your God commanded you to observe the sabbath day." 
Deuteronomy5:16 ‘Honor your father and your mother, as Yahweh your God has commanded you, that your days may be prolonged and that it may go well with you on the land which Yahweh your God gives you." 
Deuteronomy5:17 ‘You shall not murder. 
Deuteronomy5:18 ‘You shall not commit adultery. 
Deuteronomy5:19 ‘You shall not steal. 
Deuteronomy5:20 ‘You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. 
Deuteronomy5:21 ‘You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife, and you shall not desire your neighbor’s house, his field, or his male slave or his female slave, his ox or his donkey or anything that belongs to your neighbor.’" 
Deuteronomy5:22 “These words Yahweh spoke to all your assembly at the mountain from the midst of the fire, of the cloud and of the dense gloom, with a great voice, and He added no more. He wrote them on two tablets of stone and gave them to me." 
Deuteronomy5:23 Now it happened that when you heard the voice from the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, you came near to me, all the heads of your tribes and your elders." 
Deuteronomy5:24 And you said, ‘Behold, Yahweh our God has shown us His glory and His greatness, and we have heard His voice from the midst of the fire; we have seen today that God speaks with man, yet he lives." 
Deuteronomy5:25 So now then why should we die? For this great fire will consume us; if we hear the voice of Yahweh our God any longer, then we will die." 
Deuteronomy5:26 For who is there of all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking from the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived?" 
Deuteronomy5:27 As for you, go near and hear all that Yahweh our God says; then speak to us all that Yahweh our God speaks to you, and we will hear and do it.’" 
Deuteronomy5:28 “And Yahweh heard the voice of your words when you spoke to me, and Yahweh said to me, ‘I have heard the voice of the words of this people which they have spoken to you. They have done well in all that they have spoken." 
Deuteronomy5:29 Oh that they had such a heart in them, that they would fear Me and keep all My commandments all the days, that it may be well with them and with their sons forever!" 
Deuteronomy5:30 Go, say to them, “Return to your tents.”" 
Deuteronomy5:31 But as for you, stand here by Me, that I may speak to you all the commandments and the statutes and the judgments which you shall teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess.’" 
Deuteronomy5:32 So you shall be careful to do just as Yahweh your God has commanded you; you shall not turn aside to the right or to the left. 
Deuteronomy5:33 In all the way which Yahweh your God has commanded you, you shall walk, that you may live and that it may be well with you and that you may prolong your days in the land which you will possess." 
Deuteronomy6:1 “Now this is the commandment, the statutes and the judgments, which Yahweh your God has commanded me to teach you, that you might do it in the land where you are going over to possess it," 
Deuteronomy6:2 so that you and your son and your grandson might fear Yahweh your God, to keep all His statutes and His commandments which I am commanding you, all the days of your life, and that your days may be prolonged." 
Deuteronomy6:3 O Israel, you shall listen and be careful to do it, that it may be well with you and that you may multiply greatly, just as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has promised you, in a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Deuteronomy6:4 “Hear, O Israel! Yahweh is our God, Yahweh is one!" 
Deuteronomy6:5 You shall love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. 
Deuteronomy6:6 These words, which I am commanding you today, shall be on your heart." 
Deuteronomy6:7 You shall teach them diligently to your sons and shall speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way and when you lie down and when you rise up. 
Deuteronomy6:8 You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as phylacteries between your eyes." 
Deuteronomy6:9 You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. 
Deuteronomy6:10 “Then it will be, when Yahweh your God brings you into the land which He swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give you, great and good cities which you did not build," 
Deuteronomy6:11 and houses full of all good things which you did not fill, and hewn cisterns which you did not dig, vineyards and olive trees which you did not plant, and you will eat and be satisfied," 
Deuteronomy6:12 then beware, lest you forget Yahweh who brought you from the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery." 
Deuteronomy6:13 Yahweh your God you shall fear; and Him you shall serve; and by His name you shall swear. 
Deuteronomy6:14 You shall not walk after other gods, any of the gods of the peoples who surround you," 
Deuteronomy6:15 for Yahweh your God in the midst of you is a jealous God—lest the anger of Yahweh your God be kindled against you, and He destroy you from the face of the earth." 
Deuteronomy6:16 “You shall not put Yahweh your God to the test, as you tested Him at Massah." 
Deuteronomy6:17 You should diligently keep the commandments of Yahweh your God and His testimonies and His statutes which He has commanded you. 
Deuteronomy6:18 And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of Yahweh, that it may be well with you and that you may go in and possess the good land which Yahweh swore to give your fathers," 
Deuteronomy6:19 by driving out all your enemies from before you, as Yahweh has spoken." 
Deuteronomy6:20 “When your son asks you in time to come, saying, ‘What do the testimonies and the statutes and the judgments mean which Yahweh our God commanded you?’" 
Deuteronomy6:21 then you shall say to your son, ‘We were slaves to Pharaoh in Egypt, and Yahweh brought us from Egypt with a strong hand." 
Deuteronomy6:22 Moreover, Yahweh showed great and calamitous signs and wonders before our eyes against Egypt, Pharaoh, and all his household;" 
Deuteronomy6:23 But He brought us out from there in order to bring us in, to give us the land which He had sworn to our fathers.’" 
Deuteronomy6:24 So Yahweh commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear Yahweh our God for our good all our days and for our survival, as it is today." 
Deuteronomy6:25 And it will be righteousness for us if we are careful to do all this commandment before Yahweh our God, just as He commanded us." 
Deuteronomy7:1 “When Yahweh your God brings you into the land where you are entering to possess it, and He clears away many nations before you, the Hittites and the Girgashites and the Amorites and the Canaanites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites, seven nations more numerous and stronger than you," 
Deuteronomy7:2 and when Yahweh your God gives them over before you and you strike them down, then you shall devote them to destruction. You shall cut no covenant with them and show no favor to them." 
Deuteronomy7:3 Furthermore, you shall not intermarry with them; you shall not give your daughters to their sons, nor shall you take their daughters for your sons." 
Deuteronomy7:4 For they will turn your sons away from following Me, and they will serve other gods; then the anger of Yahweh will be kindled against you, and He will quickly destroy you." 
Deuteronomy7:5 But thus you shall do to them: you shall tear down their altars and shatter their sacred pillars and cut their Asherim in pieces and burn their graven images with fire. 
Deuteronomy7:6 For you are a holy people to Yahweh your God; Yahweh your God has chosen you to be a people for His own treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. 
Deuteronomy7:7 “Yahweh did not set His affection on you nor choose you because you were more in number than any of the peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples," 
Deuteronomy7:8 but because Yahweh loved you and kept the oath which He swore to your fathers, Yahweh brought you out with a strong hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy7:9 You shall know therefore that Yahweh your God, He is God, the faithful God, who keeps His covenant and His lovingkindness to a thousand generations with those who love Him and keep His commandments;" 
Deuteronomy7:10 but repays those who hate Him to their faces, to make them perish; He will not delay with him who hates Him, He will repay him to his face." 
Deuteronomy7:11 Therefore, you shall keep the commandment and the statutes and the judgments which I am commanding you today, to do them." 
Deuteronomy7:12 “Then it will be, because you listen to these judgments and keep and do them, that Yahweh your God will keep with you His covenant and His lovingkindness which He swore to your fathers." 
Deuteronomy7:13 And He will love you and bless you and multiply you; He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your herd and the young of your flock, in the land which He swore to your fathers to give you." 
Deuteronomy7:14 You shall be blessed above all peoples; there will be no male or female barren among you or among your cattle. 
Deuteronomy7:15 And Yahweh will take away from you all sickness; and He will not put on you any of the harmful diseases of Egypt which you have known, but He will give them to all who hate you." 
Deuteronomy7:16 And you shall consume all the peoples whom Yahweh your God will give over to you; your eye shall not pity them, nor shall you serve their gods, for that would be a snare to you." 
Deuteronomy7:17 “If you should say in your heart, ‘These nations are more numerous than I; how can I dispossess them?’" 
Deuteronomy7:18 you shall not be afraid of them; you shall well remember what Yahweh your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt: 
Deuteronomy7:19 the great trials which your eyes saw and the signs and the wonders and the mighty hand and the outstretched arm by which Yahweh your God brought you out. So shall Yahweh your God do to all the peoples of whom you are afraid. 
Deuteronomy7:20 Moreover, Yahweh your God will send the hornet against them until those who remain and hide themselves from you perish." 
Deuteronomy7:21 You shall not dread them, for Yahweh your God is in your midst, a great and fearsome God." 
Deuteronomy7:22 And Yahweh your God will clear away these nations before you little by little; you will not be able to put an end to them quickly, lest the wild beasts become too numerous for you." 
Deuteronomy7:23 But Yahweh your God will give them over before you and will throw them into great confusion until they are destroyed. 
Deuteronomy7:24 And He will give their kings into your hand so that you will make their name perish from under heaven; no man will be able to stand before you until you have destroyed them. 
Deuteronomy7:25 The graven images of their gods you are to burn with fire; you shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor take it for yourselves, lest you be snared by it, for it is an abomination to Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy7:26 And you shall not bring an abomination into your house and become devoted to destruction like it; you shall utterly detest it, and you shall utterly abhor it, for it is devoted to destruction." 
Deuteronomy8:1 “The entire commandment that I am commanding you today you shall be careful to do, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land which Yahweh swore to give to your fathers." 
Deuteronomy8:2 And you shall remember all the way which Yahweh your God has led you in the wilderness these forty years, that He might humble you, testing you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep His commandments or not." 
Deuteronomy8:3 And He humbled you and let you be hungry and fed you with manna which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that He might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but by everything that proceeds out of the mouth of Yahweh." 
Deuteronomy8:4 Your clothing did not wear out on you, nor did your foot swell these forty years." 
Deuteronomy8:5 Thus you shall know in your heart that Yahweh your God was disciplining you just as a man disciplines his son. 
Deuteronomy8:6 So you shall keep the commandments of Yahweh your God, to walk in His ways and to fear Him." 
Deuteronomy8:7 For Yahweh your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs, flowing forth in valleys and hills;" 
Deuteronomy8:8 a land of wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive oil and honey;" 
Deuteronomy8:9 a land where you will eat food without scarcity, in which you will not lack anything; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you can dig copper." 
Deuteronomy8:10 And so you will eat and be satisfied, and you shall bless Yahweh your God for the good land which He has given you." 
Deuteronomy8:11 “Beware lest you forget Yahweh your God by not keeping His commandments and His judgments and His statutes which I am commanding you today; 
Deuteronomy8:12 lest you eat and are satisfied and build good houses and live in them," 
Deuteronomy8:13 and your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and gold multiply, and all that you have multiplies," 
Deuteronomy8:14 and your heart becomes lifted up and you forget Yahweh your God who brought you out from the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery." 
Deuteronomy8:15 He led you through the great and fearsome wilderness, with its fiery serpents and scorpions and thirsty ground where there was no water; He brought water for you out of the rock of flint." 
Deuteronomy8:16 In the wilderness He fed you manna which your fathers did not know, that He might humble you and that He might test you, to do good for you in the end," 
Deuteronomy8:17 lest you say in your heart, ‘My power and the might of my hand made me this wealth.’" 
Deuteronomy8:18 But you shall remember Yahweh your God, for it is He who is giving you power to make wealth, that He may confirm His covenant which He swore to your fathers, as it is this day." 
Deuteronomy8:19 Now it will be, if you ever forget Yahweh your God and walk after other gods and serve them and worship them, I testify against you today that you will surely perish." 
Deuteronomy8:20 Like the nations that Yahweh makes to perish before you, so you shall perish, because you would not listen to the voice of Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy9:1 “Hear, O Israel! You are crossing over the Jordan today to go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than you, great cities fortified to heaven," 
Deuteronomy9:2 a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom you know and of whom you have heard it said, ‘Who can stand before the sons of Anak?’" 
Deuteronomy9:3 So you shall know today that it is Yahweh your God who is crossing over before you as a consuming fire. He will destroy them, and He will subdue them before you, so that you may dispossess them and make them perish quickly, just as Yahweh has spoken to you." 
Deuteronomy9:4 “Do not say in your heart when Yahweh your God has driven them out before you, saying, ‘Because of my righteousness Yahweh has brought me in to possess this land,’ but it is because of the wickedness of these nations that Yahweh is dispossessing them before you." 
Deuteronomy9:5 It is not for your righteousness or for the uprightness of your heart that you are going to possess their land, but it is because of the wickedness of these nations that Yahweh your God is dispossessing them before you, in order to confirm the oath which Yahweh swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob." 
Deuteronomy9:6 “So you shall know it is not because of your righteousness that Yahweh your God is giving you this good land to possess, for you are a stiff-necked people." 
Deuteronomy9:7 Remember, do not forget how you provoked Yahweh your God to wrath in the wilderness; from the day that you went out of the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against Yahweh." 
Deuteronomy9:8 Even at Horeb you provoked Yahweh to wrath, and Yahweh was so angry with you that He would have destroyed you." 
Deuteronomy9:9 When I went up to the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant which Yahweh had cut with you, then I remained on the mountain forty days and nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water." 
Deuteronomy9:10 And Yahweh gave me the two tablets of stone written by the finger of God; and on them were all the words which Yahweh had spoken with you at the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly. 
Deuteronomy9:11 Now it happened at the end of forty days and nights, that Yahweh gave me the two tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant." 
Deuteronomy9:12 Then Yahweh said to me, ‘Arise, go down from here quickly, for your people whom you brought out of Egypt have acted corruptly. They have quickly turned aside from the way which I commanded them; they have made a molten image for themselves.’" 
Deuteronomy9:13 Yahweh spoke further to me, saying, ‘I have seen this people, and indeed, they are a stiff-necked people." 
Deuteronomy9:14 Let Me alone, that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven; and I will make of you a nation mightier and more numerous than they.’" 
Deuteronomy9:15 “So I turned and came down from the mountain while the mountain was burning with fire, and the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands." 
Deuteronomy9:16 And I saw that you had indeed sinned against Yahweh your God. You had made for yourselves a molten calf; you had turned aside quickly from the way which Yahweh had commanded you. 
Deuteronomy9:17 And I took hold of the two tablets and threw them from my hands and shattered them before your eyes. 
Deuteronomy9:18 And I fell down before Yahweh, as at the first, forty days and nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water because of all your sin which you had committed in doing what was evil in the sight of Yahweh to provoke Him to anger." 
Deuteronomy9:19 For I was afraid of the anger and the wrath with which Yahweh was provoked against you in order to destroy you, but Yahweh listened to me that time also." 
Deuteronomy9:20 And Yahweh was angry enough with Aaron to destroy him; so I also prayed for Aaron at the same time. 
Deuteronomy9:21 Now I took your sinful thing, the calf which you had made, and burned it with fire and crushed it, grinding it very small until it was as fine as dust; and I threw its dust into the brook that came down from the mountain." 
Deuteronomy9:22 “Again at Taberah and at Massah and at Kibroth-hattaavah you provoked Yahweh to wrath. 
Deuteronomy9:23 When Yahweh sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, ‘Go up and possess the land which I have given you,’ then you rebelled against the command of Yahweh your God; you did not believe Him, and you did not listen to His voice." 
Deuteronomy9:24 You have been rebellious against Yahweh from the day I knew you. 
Deuteronomy9:25 “So I fell down before Yahweh the forty days and the forty nights, which I did because Yahweh had said He would destroy you." 
Deuteronomy9:26 And I prayed to Yahweh and said, ‘O Lord Yahweh, do not destroy Your people, even Your inheritance, whom You have redeemed through Your greatness, whom You have brought out of Egypt with a strong hand." 
Deuteronomy9:27 Remember Your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; do not look at the stiff-neck of this people or at their wickedness or their sin," 
Deuteronomy9:28 lest the land from which You brought us say, “Because Yahweh was not able to bring them into the land which He had promised them and because He hated them He has brought them out to put them to death in the wilderness.”" 
Deuteronomy9:29 Yet they are Your people, even Your inheritance, whom You have brought out by Your great power and Your outstretched arm.’" 
Deuteronomy10:1 “At that time Yahweh said to me, ‘Carve out for yourself two tablets of stone like the former ones, and come up to Me on the mountain, and make an ark of wood for yourself." 
Deuteronomy10:2 And I will write on the tablets the words that were on the former tablets which you shattered, and you shall put them in the ark.’" 
Deuteronomy10:3 So I made an ark of acacia wood and carved out two tablets of stone like the former ones and went up on the mountain with the two tablets in my hand. 
Deuteronomy10:4 And He wrote on the tablets, like the former writing, the Ten Commandments which Yahweh had spoken to you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly; and Yahweh gave them to me." 
Deuteronomy10:5 Then I turned and came down from the mountain and put the tablets in the ark which I had made; and there they are, as Yahweh commanded me.”" 
Deuteronomy10:6 (Now the sons of Israel set out from Beeroth Bene-jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was buried, and Eleazar his son ministered as priest in his place." 
Deuteronomy10:7 From there they set out to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water." 
Deuteronomy10:8 At that time Yahweh set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, to stand before Yahweh to minister for Him and to bless in His name to this day." 
Deuteronomy10:9 Therefore, Levi does not have a portion or inheritance with his brothers; Yahweh is his inheritance, just as Yahweh your God spoke to him.)" 
Deuteronomy10:10 “I, moreover, stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights like the first time, and Yahweh listened to me that time also; Yahweh was not willing to destroy you." 
Deuteronomy10:11 Then Yahweh said to me, ‘Arise, go on your journey ahead of the people, that they may go in and possess the land which I swore to their fathers to give them.’" 
Deuteronomy10:12 “So now, Israel, what does Yahweh your God ask from you, but to fear Yahweh your God, to walk in all His ways and love Him, and to serve Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul," 
Deuteronomy10:13 and to keep the commandments of Yahweh and His statutes which I am commanding you today for your good? 
Deuteronomy10:14 Behold, to Yahweh your God belong heaven and the highest heavens, the earth and all that is in it." 
Deuteronomy10:15 Yet on your fathers did Yahweh set His affection to love them, and He chose their seed after them, even you above all peoples, as it is this day." 
Deuteronomy10:16 So circumcise your heart, and stiffen your neck no longer." 
Deuteronomy10:17 For Yahweh your God is the God of gods and the Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the fearsome God who does not show partiality nor take a bribe." 
Deuteronomy10:18 He executes justice for the orphan and the widow, and shows love for the sojourner by giving him food and clothing." 
Deuteronomy10:19 So show love for the sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy10:20 Yahweh your God you shall fear; Him you shall serve, and to Him you shall cling, and by His name you shall swear." 
Deuteronomy10:21 He is your praise, and He is your God, who has done these great and fearsome things for you which your eyes have seen." 
Deuteronomy10:22 Your fathers went down to Egypt seventy persons in all, and now Yahweh your God has made you as numerous as the stars of heaven." 
Deuteronomy11:1 “You shall therefore love Yahweh your God, and keep His charge, His statutes, His judgments, and His commandments all your days." 
Deuteronomy11:2 So know this day that I am not speaking with your sons who have not known and who have not seen the discipline of Yahweh your God—His greatness, His strong hand and His outstretched arm," 
Deuteronomy11:3 and His signs and His works which He did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh the king of Egypt and to all his land; 
Deuteronomy11:4 and what He did to Egypt’s army, to its horses and its chariots, when He made the water of the Red Sea to engulf them while they were pursuing you, and Yahweh made them perish utterly;" 
Deuteronomy11:5 and what He did to you in the wilderness until you came to this place; 
Deuteronomy11:6 and what He did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben, when the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them, their households, their tents, and every living thing that followed them, among all Israel—" 
Deuteronomy11:7 but your own eyes have seen all the great work of Yahweh which He did. 
Deuteronomy11:8 “You shall therefore keep every commandment which I am commanding you today, so that you may be strong and go in and possess the land into which you are about to cross to possess it;" 
Deuteronomy11:9 so that you may prolong your days on the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to give to them and to their seed, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Deuteronomy11:10 For the land, into which you are entering to possess it, is not like the land of Egypt from which you came out, where you used to sow your seed and water it with your foot like a vegetable garden." 
Deuteronomy11:11 But the land into which you are about to cross to possess it, a land of hills and valleys, drinks water from the rain of heaven," 
Deuteronomy11:12 a land for which Yahweh your God cares; the eyes of Yahweh your God are always on it, from the beginning even to the end of the year." 
Deuteronomy11:13 “And it will be that, if you listen obediently to my commandments which I am commanding you today, to love Yahweh your God and to serve Him with all your heart and all your soul," 
Deuteronomy11:14 that I, Yahweh, will give the rain for your land in its season, the early and late rains, that you may gather in your grain and your new wine and your oil." 
Deuteronomy11:15 And I will give grass in your fields for your cattle, and you will eat and be satisfied." 
Deuteronomy11:16 Beware lest your hearts be deceived, and you turn away and serve other gods and worship them," 
Deuteronomy11:17 and the anger of Yahweh will be kindled against you, and He will shut up the heavens so that there will be no rain and the ground will not yield its fruit; and you will perish quickly from the good land which Yahweh is giving you." 
Deuteronomy11:18 “You shall therefore place these words of mine on your heart and on your soul; and you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as phylacteries between your eyes." 
Deuteronomy11:19 And you shall teach them to your sons, speaking of them when you sit in your house and when you walk along the road and when you lie down and when you rise up." 
Deuteronomy11:20 And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates," 
Deuteronomy11:21 so that your days and the days of your sons may be multiplied on the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to give them, as long as the heavens remain above the earth." 
Deuteronomy11:22 For if you are careful to keep this entire commandment which I am commanding you to do, to love Yahweh your God, to walk in all His ways, and to cling to Him," 
Deuteronomy11:23 then Yahweh will dispossess all these nations from before you, and you will dispossess nations greater and mightier than you." 
Deuteronomy11:24 Every place on which the sole of your foot treads shall be yours; your border will be from the wilderness to Lebanon, and from the river, the river Euphrates, as far as the western sea." 
Deuteronomy11:25 No man will be able to stand before you; Yahweh your God will put the dread of you and the fear of you on all the land on which you set foot, as He has spoken to you." 
Deuteronomy11:26 “See, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse:" 
Deuteronomy11:27 the blessing, if you listen to the commandments of Yahweh your God, which I am commanding you today;" 
Deuteronomy11:28 and the curse, if you do not listen to the commandments of Yahweh your God, but turn aside from the way which I am commanding you today, by walking after other gods which you have not known." 
Deuteronomy11:29 “And it will be, when Yahweh your God brings you into the land where you are entering to possess it, that you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal." 
Deuteronomy11:30 Are they not across the Jordan, west of the way toward the sunset, in the land of the Canaanites who live in the Arabah, opposite Gilgal, beside the oaks of Moreh?" 
Deuteronomy11:31 For you are about to cross the Jordan to go in to possess the land which Yahweh your God is giving you, and you shall possess it and live in it," 
Deuteronomy11:32 and you shall be careful to do all the statutes and the judgments which I am setting before you today. 
Deuteronomy12:1 “These are the statutes and the judgments which you shall be careful to do in the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has given you to possess all the days you live on the earth." 
Deuteronomy12:2 You shall utterly destroy all the places where the nations whom you shall dispossess serve their gods, on the high mountains and on the hills and under every green tree." 
Deuteronomy12:3 And you shall tear down their altars and shatter their sacred pillars and burn their Asherim with fire, and you shall cut the graven images of their gods in pieces and destroy their name from that place." 
Deuteronomy12:4 You shall not do thus toward Yahweh your God. 
Deuteronomy12:5 But you shall seek Yahweh at the place which Yahweh your God will choose from all your tribes, to establish His name there for His dwelling, and there you shall come." 
Deuteronomy12:6 And there you shall bring your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, the contribution of your hand, your votive offerings, your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your herd and of your flock." 
Deuteronomy12:7 There also you and your households shall eat before Yahweh your God, and be glad in all that you send forth your hand to do, in which Yahweh your God has blessed you." 
Deuteronomy12:8 “You shall not do at all what we are doing here today, every man doing whatever is right in his own eyes;" 
Deuteronomy12:9 for you have not as yet come to the resting place and the inheritance which Yahweh your God is giving you. 
Deuteronomy12:10 Now you will cross the Jordan and live in the land which Yahweh your God is giving you to inherit. And He will give you rest from all your enemies around you so that you live in security. 
Deuteronomy12:11 Then it will be that the place in which Yahweh your God will choose for His name to dwell, there you shall bring all that I am commanding you: your burnt offerings and your sacrifices, your tithes and the contribution of your hand, and all your choice votive offerings which you will vow to Yahweh." 
Deuteronomy12:12 And you shall be glad before Yahweh your God, you and your sons and daughters, your male and female slaves, and the Levite who is within your gates, since he has no portion or inheritance with you." 
Deuteronomy12:13 “Beware, lest you offer your burnt offerings in every cultic place you see," 
Deuteronomy12:14 but in the place which Yahweh chooses in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt offerings, and there you shall do all that I am commanding you." 
Deuteronomy12:15 “However, you may sacrifice and eat meat within any of your gates, whatever you desire, according to the blessing of Yahweh your God which He has given you; the unclean and the clean may eat of it, as of the gazelle and the deer." 
Deuteronomy12:16 Only you shall not eat the blood; you are to pour it out on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy12:17 You are not allowed to eat within your gates the tithe of your grain or new wine or oil, or the firstborn of your herd or flock, or any of your votive offerings which you vow, or your freewill offerings, or the contribution of your hand." 
Deuteronomy12:18 But you shall eat them before Yahweh your God in the place which Yahweh your God will choose, you and your son and daughter, and your male and female slaves, and the Levite who is within your gates; and you shall be glad before Yahweh your God in all that you send forth your hand to do." 
Deuteronomy12:19 Beware lest you forsake the Levite all your days upon your land. 
Deuteronomy12:20 “When Yahweh your God enlarges your territory as He has promised you, and you say, ‘I will eat meat,’ because you desire to eat meat, then you may eat meat, whatever you desire." 
Deuteronomy12:21 If the place where Yahweh your God chooses to set His name is too far away from you, then you may sacrifice of your herd and flock which Yahweh has given you, as I have commanded you; and you may eat within your gates whatever you desire." 
Deuteronomy12:22 Just as a gazelle or a deer is eaten, so you will eat it; the unclean and the clean alike may eat of it." 
Deuteronomy12:23 Only be strong in yourselves not to eat the blood, for the blood is the life, and you shall not eat the life with the flesh." 
Deuteronomy12:24 You shall not eat it; you shall pour it out on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy12:25 You shall not eat it, so that it may be well with you and your sons after you, for you will be doing what is right in the sight of Yahweh." 
Deuteronomy12:26 Only your holy things which you may have and your votive offerings, you shall take and go to the place which Yahweh chooses." 
Deuteronomy12:27 And you shall offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, on the altar of Yahweh your God; and the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the altar of Yahweh your God, and you shall eat the flesh." 
Deuteronomy12:28 “Be careful to listen to all these words which I command you, so that it may be well with you and your sons after you forever, for you will be doing what is good and right in the sight of Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy12:29 “When Yahweh your God cuts off before you the nations which you are going in to dispossess, and you dispossess them and inhabit their land," 
Deuteronomy12:30 beware lest you be ensnared to follow them, after they are destroyed before you, and lest you inquire after their gods, saying, ‘How do these nations serve their gods, that I also may do likewise?’" 
Deuteronomy12:31 You shall not do thus toward Yahweh your God, for every abominable act which Yahweh hates they have done for their gods; for they even burn their sons and daughters in the fire to their gods." 
Deuteronomy12:32 “Whatever I am commanding you, you shall be careful to do; you shall not add to nor take away from it." 
Deuteronomy13:1 “If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder," 
Deuteronomy13:2 and the sign or the wonder comes true, concerning which he spoke to you, saying, ‘Let us walk after other gods (whom you have not known) and let us serve them,’" 
Deuteronomy13:3 you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams; for Yahweh your God is testing you to find out if you love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
Deuteronomy13:4 You shall walk after Yahweh your God and fear Him; and you shall keep His commandments, listen to His voice, serve Him, and cling to Him." 
Deuteronomy13:5 But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death because he has counseled rebellion against Yahweh your God who brought you from the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of slavery, to drive you from the way in which Yahweh your God commanded you to walk. So you shall purge the evil from among you." 
Deuteronomy13:6 “If your brother, your mother’s son, or your son or daughter, or the wife you cherish, or your friend who is as your own soul, entices you secretly, saying, ‘Let us go and serve other gods’ (whom neither you nor your fathers have known," 
Deuteronomy13:7 of the gods of the peoples who are around you, near you or far from you, from one end of the earth to the other end)," 
Deuteronomy13:8 you shall not be willing to accept him or listen to him; and your eye shall not pity him; and you shall not spare him or conceal him. 
Deuteronomy13:9 But you shall surely kill him; your hand shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people." 
Deuteronomy13:10 So you shall stone him to death because he has sought to drive you from Yahweh your God who brought you out from the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery." 
Deuteronomy13:11 Thus all Israel will hear and be afraid and will never again do such an evil thing among you. 
Deuteronomy13:12 “If you hear in one of your cities, which Yahweh your God is giving you to live in, anyone saying that" 
Deuteronomy13:13 some vile men have gone out from among you and have driven the inhabitants of their city astray, saying, ‘Let us go and serve other gods’ (whom you have not known)," 
Deuteronomy13:14 then you shall inquire and search out and ask thoroughly. Behold, if it is true and the matter is confirmed, that this abomination has been done among you," 
Deuteronomy13:15 you shall surely strike the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, devoting it to destruction and all that is in it and its cattle with the edge of the sword." 
Deuteronomy13:16 Then you shall gather all its spoil into the middle of its open square and burn the city and all its spoil with fire as a whole burnt offering to Yahweh your God; and it shall be a ruin forever. It shall never be rebuilt. 
Deuteronomy13:17 Now nothing from that which is devoted to destruction shall cling to your hand, in order that Yahweh may turn from His burning anger and grant compassion to you and show compassion to you and make you multiply, just as He has sworn to your fathers," 
Deuteronomy13:18 if you will listen to the voice of Yahweh your God, keeping all His commandments which I am commanding you today, and doing what is right in the sight of Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy14:1 “You are the sons of Yahweh your God; you shall not gash yourselves nor shave your forehead for the sake of the dead. 
Deuteronomy14:2 For you are a holy people to Yahweh your God, and Yahweh has chosen you to be a people for His treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth." 
Deuteronomy14:3 “You shall not eat any abominable thing. 
Deuteronomy14:4 These are the animals which you may eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat," 
Deuteronomy14:5 the deer, the gazelle, the roebuck, the wild goat, the ibex, the antelope, and the mountain sheep." 
Deuteronomy14:6 And any animal that divides the hoof and has the hoof split in two and chews the cud, among the animals, that one you may eat." 
Deuteronomy14:7 Nevertheless, you are not to eat of these among those which chew the cud or among those that divide the hoof in two: the camel and the rabbit and the shaphan, for though they chew the cud, they do not divide the hoof; they are unclean for you." 
Deuteronomy14:8 And the pig, because it divides the hoof but does not chew the cud, it is unclean for you. You shall not eat any of their flesh nor touch their carcasses." 
Deuteronomy14:9 “These you may eat of all that are in water: anything that has fins and scales you may eat," 
Deuteronomy14:10 but anything that does not have fins and scales you shall not eat; it is unclean for you. 
Deuteronomy14:11 “You may eat any clean bird. 
Deuteronomy14:12 But these are the ones which you shall not eat: the eagle and the vulture and the buzzard," 
Deuteronomy14:13 and the red kite, the falcon, and the kite in their kinds," 
Deuteronomy14:14 and every raven in its kind," 
Deuteronomy14:15 and the ostrich, the owl, the gull, and the hawk in their kinds," 
Deuteronomy14:16 the little owl, the great owl, the white owl," 
Deuteronomy14:17 the pelican, the carrion vulture, the cormorant," 
Deuteronomy14:18 the stork, and the heron in their kinds, and the hoopoe and the bat." 
Deuteronomy14:19 And all the teeming life with wings are unclean to you; they shall not be eaten. 
Deuteronomy14:20 You may eat any clean bird. 
Deuteronomy14:21 “You shall not eat anything which dies of itself. You may give it to the sojourner who is within your gates, so that he may eat it, or you may sell it to a foreigner, for you are a holy people to Yahweh your God. You shall not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk." 
Deuteronomy14:22 “You shall surely tithe all the produce from what you sow, which comes out of the field every year." 
Deuteronomy14:23 And you shall eat in the presence of Yahweh your God, at the place where He chooses for His name to dwell, the tithe of your grain, your new wine, your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and your flock, so that you may learn to fear Yahweh your God all your days." 
Deuteronomy14:24 And if the distance is so great for you that you are not able to bring the tithe, since the place where Yahweh your God chooses to set His name is too far away from you when Yahweh your God blesses you," 
Deuteronomy14:25 then you shall exchange it for money and bind the money in your hand and go to the place which Yahweh your God chooses. 
Deuteronomy14:26 And you may spend the money for whatever your heart desires: for oxen or sheep or wine or strong drink or whatever your heart desires; and there you shall eat in the presence of Yahweh your God and be glad, you and your household." 
Deuteronomy14:27 Also you shall not forsake the Levite who is within your gates, for he has no portion or inheritance among you." 
Deuteronomy14:28 “At the end of every third year you shall bring out all the tithe of your produce in that year and shall deposit it within your gates. 
Deuteronomy14:29 And the Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance among you, and the sojourner, the orphan, and the widow who are within your gates, shall come and eat and be satisfied, in order that Yahweh your God may bless you in all the work of your hand which you do." 
Deuteronomy15:1 “At the end of every seven years you shall grant a remission of debts. 
Deuteronomy15:2 And this is the manner of remission: every creditor shall release what he has loaned to his neighbor; he shall not exact it of his neighbor and his brother because the remission from Yahweh has been proclaimed. 
Deuteronomy15:3 From a foreigner you may exact it, but your hand shall release whatever of yours is with your brother." 
Deuteronomy15:4 However, there will be no needy one among you, since Yahweh will surely bless you in the land which Yahweh your God is giving you as an inheritance to possess," 
Deuteronomy15:5 if only you listen obediently to the voice of Yahweh your God, to be careful to do all this commandment which I am commanding you today." 
Deuteronomy15:6 For Yahweh your God will bless you as He has promised you, and you will lend to many nations, but you will not borrow; and you will rule over many nations, but they will not rule over you." 
Deuteronomy15:7 “If there is a needy one among you, one of your brothers, in any of your gates of the towns in your land which Yahweh your God is giving you, you shall not harden your heart nor close your hand from your needy brother;" 
Deuteronomy15:8 but you shall freely open your hand to him and shall generously lend him sufficient for his need in whatever he lacks. 
Deuteronomy15:9 Beware lest there be a vile thought in your heart, saying, ‘The seventh year, the year of the remission of debts, is near,’ and your eye is hostile toward your needy brother, and you give him nothing; then he may cry to Yahweh against you, and it will be a sin in you." 
Deuteronomy15:10 You shall generously give to him, and your heart shall not be grieved when you give to him, because for this thing Yahweh your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you send forth your hand to do." 
Deuteronomy15:11 For the needy will never cease to be in the land; therefore I am commanding you, saying, ‘You shall freely open your hand to your brother, to your afflicted and needy in your land.’" 
Deuteronomy15:12 “If your brother, a Hebrew man or woman, is sold to you, then he shall serve you six years, but in the seventh year you shall let him go to be free from you." 
Deuteronomy15:13 When you let him go to be free from you, you shall not let him go empty-handed." 
Deuteronomy15:14 You shall furnish him generously from your flock and from your threshing floor and from your wine vat; you shall give to him as Yahweh your God has blessed you. 
Deuteronomy15:15 And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and Yahweh your God redeemed you; therefore I am commanding you this today." 
Deuteronomy15:16 And it will be that, if he says to you, ‘I will not go out from you,’ because he loves you and your household, since he fares well with you;" 
Deuteronomy15:17 then you shall take an awl and pierce it through his ear into the door, and he shall be your servant forever. Also you shall do likewise to your maidservant." 
Deuteronomy15:18 “It shall not seem hard in your sight when you let him go to be free from you, for he has given you six years with double the service of a hired man; so Yahweh your God will bless you in whatever you do." 
Deuteronomy15:19 “You shall set apart as holy to Yahweh your God all the firstborn males that are born of your herd and of your flock; you shall not work with the firstborn of your herd nor shear the firstborn of your flock. 
Deuteronomy15:20 You and your household shall eat it every year before Yahweh your God in the place which Yahweh chooses. 
Deuteronomy15:21 But if it has any defect, such as lameness or blindness, or any serious defect, you shall not sacrifice it to Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy15:22 You shall eat it within your gates; the unclean and the clean alike may eat it, as a gazelle or a deer." 
Deuteronomy15:23 Only you shall not eat its blood; you are to pour it out on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy16:1 “Keep the month of Abib and celebrate the Passover to Yahweh your God, for in the month of Abib Yahweh your God brought you out of Egypt by night." 
Deuteronomy16:2 And you shall sacrifice the Passover to Yahweh your God from the flock and the herd, in the place where Yahweh chooses for His name to dwell." 
Deuteronomy16:3 You shall not eat leavened bread with it; seven days you shall eat with it unleavened bread, the bread of affliction (for you came out of the land of Egypt in haste), so that you may remember the day when you came out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life." 
Deuteronomy16:4 For seven days no leaven shall be seen with you in all your territory, and none of the flesh which you sacrifice on the evening of the first day shall remain overnight until morning." 
Deuteronomy16:5 You are not allowed to sacrifice the Passover in any of your gates of the towns which Yahweh your God is giving you; 
Deuteronomy16:6 but at the place where Yahweh your God chooses for His name to dwell, there you shall sacrifice the Passover in the evening at sunset, at the appointed time that you came out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy16:7 And you shall cook and eat it in the place which Yahweh your God chooses. In the morning you are to return to your tents. 
Deuteronomy16:8 Six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a solemn assembly to Yahweh your God; you shall do no work on it." 
Deuteronomy16:9 “You shall count seven weeks for yourself; you shall begin to count seven weeks from the time you begin to put the sickle to the standing grain. 
Deuteronomy16:10 Then you shall celebrate the Feast of Weeks to Yahweh your God with a tribute of a freewill offering of your hand, which you shall give just as Yahweh your God blesses you;" 
Deuteronomy16:11 and you shall be glad before Yahweh your God, you and your son and your daughter and your male and female slaves and the Levite who is within your gates and the sojourner and the orphan and the widow who are in your midst, in the place where Yahweh your God chooses for His name to dwell." 
Deuteronomy16:12 And you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you shall be careful to observe these statutes." 
Deuteronomy16:13 “You shall celebrate the Feast of Booths seven days after you have gathered in from your threshing floor and your wine vat; 
Deuteronomy16:14 and you shall be glad in your feast, you and your son and your daughter and your male and female slaves and the Levite and the sojourner and the orphan and the widow who are within your gates." 
Deuteronomy16:15 Seven days you shall celebrate a feast to Yahweh your God in the place which Yahweh chooses, because Yahweh your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that you will be altogether glad." 
Deuteronomy16:16 “Three times in a year all your males shall appear before Yahweh your God in the place which He chooses, at the Feast of Unleavened Bread and at the Feast of Weeks and at the Feast of Booths, and they shall not appear before Yahweh empty-handed." 
Deuteronomy16:17 Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of Yahweh your God which He has given you." 
Deuteronomy16:18 “You shall appoint for yourself judges and officers in all your gates of the towns which Yahweh your God is giving you, according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment." 
Deuteronomy16:19 You shall not distort justice; you shall not be partial, and you shall not take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and perverts the words of the righteous." 
Deuteronomy16:20 Righteousness! Righteousness, you shall pursue, that you may live and possess the land which Yahweh your God is giving you." 
Deuteronomy16:21 “You shall not plant for yourself an Asherah of any kind of tree beside the altar of Yahweh your God, which you shall make for yourself." 
Deuteronomy16:22 And you shall not set up for yourself a sacred pillar which Yahweh your God hates. 
Deuteronomy17:1 “You shall not sacrifice to Yahweh your God an ox or a sheep which has a defect or any blemish, for that is an abominable thing to Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy17:2 “If there is found in your midst, in any of your gates of the towns which Yahweh your God is giving you, a man or a woman who does what is evil in the sight of Yahweh your God, by trespassing against His covenant," 
Deuteronomy17:3 and has gone and served other gods and worshiped them, or the sun or the moon or any of the heavenly host, which I have not commanded," 
Deuteronomy17:4 and if it is told to you and you have heard of it, then you shall inquire thoroughly. Behold, if it is true and the matter is confirmed that this abomination has been done in Israel," 
Deuteronomy17:5 then you shall bring out that man or that woman who has done this evil deed to your gates, that is, the man or the woman, and you shall stone them, and they will die." 
Deuteronomy17:6 On the mouth of two witnesses or three witnesses, he who is to die shall be put to death; he shall not be put to death on the mouth of one witness." 
Deuteronomy17:7 The hand of the witnesses shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. So you shall purge the evil from your midst." 
Deuteronomy17:8 “If any case is too difficult for you to judge, between one kind of homicide or another, between one kind of lawsuit or another, and between one kind of assault or another, being cases of dispute in your gates, then you shall arise and go up to the place which Yahweh your God chooses." 
Deuteronomy17:9 So you shall come to the Levitical priest or the judge who is in office in those days, and you shall inquire of them, and they will declare to you the judgment in the case." 
Deuteronomy17:10 And you shall do according to the terms of the judgment which they declare to you from that place which Yahweh chooses; and you shall be careful to do according to all that they teach you. 
Deuteronomy17:11 According to the terms of the law which they teach you, and according to the judgment which they tell you, you shall do; you shall not turn aside from the word which they declare to you, to the right or the left." 
Deuteronomy17:12 And the man who acts presumptuously by not listening to the priest who stands there to minister to Yahweh your God, or to the judge, that man shall die; thus you shall purge the evil from Israel." 
Deuteronomy17:13 Then all the people will hear and be afraid and will not act presumptuously again. 
Deuteronomy17:14 “When you enter the land which Yahweh your God gives you, and you possess it and live in it, and you say, ‘I will set a king over me like all the nations who are around me,’" 
Deuteronomy17:15 you shall surely set a king over you whom Yahweh your God chooses, one from among your brothers you shall set as king over yourselves; you may not put a foreigner over yourselves who is not your brother." 
Deuteronomy17:16 Moreover, he shall not multiply horses for himself, nor shall he cause the people to return to Egypt to multiply horses. Yahweh has said to you, ‘You shall never again return that way.’" 
Deuteronomy17:17 And he shall not multiply wives for himself, or else his heart will turn away; nor shall he greatly increase silver and gold for himself." 
Deuteronomy17:18 “Now it will be when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write for himself a copy of this law on a scroll in the presence of the Levitical priests." 
Deuteronomy17:19 And it shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear Yahweh his God, to carefully observe all the words of this law and these statutes," 
Deuteronomy17:20 that his heart may not be lifted up above his brothers and that he may not turn aside from the commandment, to the right or the left, so that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his sons in the midst of Israel." 
Deuteronomy18:1 “The Levitical priests, the whole tribe of Levi, shall have no portion or inheritance with Israel; they shall eat of the offerings to Yahweh by fire and of His inheritance." 
Deuteronomy18:2 And they shall have no inheritance among their brothers; Yahweh is their inheritance, as He promised them." 
Deuteronomy18:3 “Now this shall be the legal judgment for the priests taken from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, either an ox or a sheep: they shall give to the priest the shoulder and the two cheeks and the stomach." 
Deuteronomy18:4 You shall give him the first fruits of your grain, your new wine and your oil and the first shearing of your sheep." 
Deuteronomy18:5 For Yahweh your God has chosen him and his sons from all your tribes, to stand to minister in the name of Yahweh all the days." 
Deuteronomy18:6 “Now if a Levite comes from any of your gates of the towns throughout Israel where he sojourns and comes whenever he desires to the place which Yahweh chooses," 
Deuteronomy18:7 then he shall minister in the name of Yahweh his God like all his brothers the Levites who stand there before Yahweh. 
Deuteronomy18:8 They shall eat equal portions, except what they receive from the sale of their fathers’ estates." 
Deuteronomy18:9 “When you enter the land which Yahweh your God gives you, you shall not learn to imitate the abominations of those nations." 
Deuteronomy18:10 There shall not be found among you anyone who makes his son or his daughter pass through the fire, one who uses divination, one who practices soothsaying or one who interprets omens or a sorcerer," 
Deuteronomy18:11 or one who is an enchanter or a medium or a spiritist or one who inquires of the dead. 
Deuteronomy18:12 For whoever does these things is an abomination to Yahweh; and because of these abominations Yahweh your God will dispossess them from before you. 
Deuteronomy18:13 You shall be blameless before Yahweh your God. 
Deuteronomy18:14 For those nations, which you shall dispossess, listen to those who practice soothsaying and to diviners, but as for you, Yahweh your God has not allowed you to do so." 
Deuteronomy18:15 “Yahweh your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers; you shall listen to him." 
Deuteronomy18:16 This is according to all that you asked of Yahweh your God in Horeb on the day of the assembly, saying, ‘Let me not hear again the voice of Yahweh my God; let me not see this great fire anymore, or I will die.’" 
Deuteronomy18:17 And Yahweh said to me, ‘They have spoken well." 
Deuteronomy18:18 I will raise up a prophet from among their brothers like you, and I will put My words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him." 
Deuteronomy18:19 And it will be that whoever will not listen to My words which he shall speak in My name, I Myself will require it of him." 
Deuteronomy18:20 But the prophet who speaks a word presumptuously in My name which I have not commanded him to speak, or which he speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die.’" 
Deuteronomy18:21 Now you may say in your heart, ‘How will we know the word which Yahweh has not spoken?’" 
Deuteronomy18:22 When a prophet speaks in the name of Yahweh, if the thing does not come about or come true, that is the thing which Yahweh has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously; you shall not be afraid of him." 
Deuteronomy19:1 “When Yahweh your God cuts off the nations, whose land Yahweh your God gives you, and you dispossess them and settle in their cities and in their houses," 
Deuteronomy19:2 you shall set apart three cities for yourself in the midst of your land, which Yahweh your God gives you to possess." 
Deuteronomy19:3 You shall prepare the roads for yourself, and divide into three parts the territory of your land which Yahweh your God will give you to inherit, so that any manslayer may flee there." 
Deuteronomy19:4 “Now this is the case of the manslayer who may flee there and live: when he strikes down his friend without premeditation, not hating him previously—" 
Deuteronomy19:5 as when a man goes into the forest with his friend to cut wood, and his hand swings the axe to cut down the tree, and the iron head slips off the handle and strikes his friend so that he dies—he may flee to one of these cities and live;" 
Deuteronomy19:6 lest the avenger of blood pursue the manslayer when his heart is angry, and overtake him, because the way is long, and strike down his life, though he was not deserving of death, since he had not hated him previously." 
Deuteronomy19:7 Therefore, I am commanding you, saying, ‘You shall set apart three cities for yourself.’" 
Deuteronomy19:8 “Now if Yahweh your God enlarges your territory, just as He has sworn to your fathers, and gives you all the land which He promised to give to your fathers—" 
Deuteronomy19:9 if you be careful to do all this commandment which I am commanding you today, to love Yahweh your God and to walk in His ways all your days—then you shall add three more cities for yourself, besides these three." 
Deuteronomy19:10 So innocent blood will not be shed in the midst of your land which Yahweh your God gives you as an inheritance, and bloodguiltiness be on you." 
Deuteronomy19:11 “But if there is a man who hates his neighbor and lies in wait for him and rises up against him and strikes down his life so that he dies, and he flees to one of these cities," 
Deuteronomy19:12 then the elders of his city shall send and take him from there and give him over into the hand of the avenger of blood, that he may die." 
Deuteronomy19:13 You shall not pity him, but you shall purge the blood of the innocent from Israel, that it may go well with you." 
Deuteronomy19:14 “You shall not move your neighbor’s boundary mark, which the ancestors have set, in your inheritance which you will inherit in the land that Yahweh your God gives you to possess." 
Deuteronomy19:15 “A single witness shall not rise up against a man on account of any iniquity or any sin which he has committed; at the mouth of two or three witnesses a matter shall be established. 
Deuteronomy19:16 If a malicious witness rises up against a man to accuse him of wrongdoing," 
Deuteronomy19:17 then both the men who have the dispute shall stand before Yahweh, before the priests and the judges who will be in office in those days." 
Deuteronomy19:18 And the judges shall inquire thoroughly, and behold, if the witness is a false witness and he has accused his brother falsely," 
Deuteronomy19:19 then you shall do to him just as he had intended to do to his brother. Thus you shall purge the evil from among you. 
Deuteronomy19:20 And the rest will hear and be afraid and will never again do such an evil thing among you. 
Deuteronomy19:21 Thus your eye shall not show pity: life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot." 
Deuteronomy20:1 “If you go out to battle against your enemies and see horses and chariots and people more numerous than you, do not be afraid of them; for Yahweh your God, who brought you up from the land of Egypt, is with you." 
Deuteronomy20:2 Now it will be, when you are drawing near to the battle, the priest shall approach and speak to the people." 
Deuteronomy20:3 And he shall say to them, ‘Hear, O Israel, you are drawing near to the battle against your enemies today. Do not let your heart be faint. Do not be afraid, nor be alarmed, nor be in dread before them," 
Deuteronomy20:4 for Yahweh your God is the one who goes with you, to fight for you against your enemies, to save you.’" 
Deuteronomy20:5 The officers also shall speak to the people, saying, ‘Who is the man that has built a new house and has not dedicated it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man dedicate it." 
Deuteronomy20:6 Who is the man that has planted a vineyard and has not begun to use its fruit? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man begin to use its fruit." 
Deuteronomy20:7 And who is the man that is engaged to a woman and has not married her? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man marry her.’" 
Deuteronomy20:8 Then the officers shall speak further to the people and say, ‘Who is the man that is afraid and whose heart is faint? Let him go and return to his house, so that he might not make his brothers’ hearts melt like his heart.’" 
Deuteronomy20:9 Now it will be that when the officers have finished speaking to the people, they shall appoint commanders of armies at the head of the people." 
Deuteronomy20:10 “If you come near a city to fight against it, you shall call for terms of peace." 
Deuteronomy20:11 Now it will be that if it agrees to make peace with you and opens to you, then all the people who are found in it shall become your forced labor and shall serve you." 
Deuteronomy20:12 However, if it does not make peace with you, but makes war against you, then you shall besiege it." 
Deuteronomy20:13 And Yahweh your God shall give it into your hand, and you shall strike all the males in it with the edge of the sword." 
Deuteronomy20:14 Only the women and the little ones and the animals and all that is in the city, all its spoil, you shall plunder for yourself; and you shall consume the spoil of your enemies which Yahweh your God has given you." 
Deuteronomy20:15 Thus you shall do to all the cities that are very far from you, which are not of the cities of these nations nearby." 
Deuteronomy20:16 Only in the cities of these peoples that Yahweh your God is giving you as an inheritance, you shall not leave alive anything that breathes." 
Deuteronomy20:17 But you shall devote them to destruction, the Hittite and the Amorite, the Canaanite and the Perizzite, the Hivite and the Jebusite, as Yahweh your God has commanded you," 
Deuteronomy20:18 so that they may not teach you to do according to all their abominations which they have done for their gods, so that you would sin against Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy20:19 “If you besiege a city for many days, to make war against it in order to capture it, you shall not destroy its trees by swinging an axe against them; for you may eat from them, and you shall not cut them down. For is the tree of the field a man, that it should be besieged by you?" 
Deuteronomy20:20 Only the trees which you know are not trees for food you shall destroy and cut down, that you may build siegeworks against the city that is making war with you until it falls." 
Deuteronomy21:1 “If a slain person is found fallen in the open country in the land which Yahweh your God gives you to possess, and it is not known who has struck him," 
Deuteronomy21:2 then your elders and your judges shall go out and measure the distance to the cities which are around the slain one. 
Deuteronomy21:3 And it shall be that the city which is nearest to the slain man, that is, the elders of that city, shall take a heifer of the herd, which has not been worked and which has not pulled in a yoke;" 
Deuteronomy21:4 and the elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a valley with running water, which has not been plowed or sown, and they shall break the heifer’s neck there in the valley." 
Deuteronomy21:5 Then the priests, the sons of Levi, shall come near, for Yahweh your God has chosen them to minister for Him and to bless in the name of Yahweh; and every dispute and every assault shall be settled by them." 
Deuteronomy21:6 And all the elders of that city who are nearest to the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley; 
Deuteronomy21:7 and they shall answer and say, ‘Our hands did not shed this blood, nor did our eyes see it." 
Deuteronomy21:8 Atone for Your people Israel whom You have redeemed, O Yahweh, and do not place the guilt of innocent blood in the midst of Your people Israel.’ And the bloodguiltiness shall be atoned for them." 
Deuteronomy21:9 So you shall purge the guilt of innocent blood from your midst, when you do what is right in the eyes of Yahweh." 
Deuteronomy21:10 “If you go out to battle against your enemies, and Yahweh your God gives them over into your hands and you take them away captive," 
Deuteronomy21:11 and see among the captives a beautiful woman and set your affection on her and would take her as a wife for yourself," 
Deuteronomy21:12 then you shall bring her home to your house, and she shall shave her head and trim her nails." 
Deuteronomy21:13 She shall also remove the clothes of her captivity and shall remain in your house and weep for her father and mother a full month; and after that you may go in to her and be her husband, and she shall be your wife." 
Deuteronomy21:14 And it will be that, if you do not desire her, then you shall let her go wherever she wishes; but you shall certainly not sell her for money; you shall not mistreat her because you have humbled her." 
Deuteronomy21:15 “If a man has two wives, the one loved and the other unloved, and both the loved and the unloved have borne him sons, if the firstborn son belongs to the unloved," 
Deuteronomy21:16 then it shall be in the day he wills what he has to his sons, he cannot make the son of the loved the firstborn before the son of the unloved, who is the firstborn." 
Deuteronomy21:17 But he shall recognize the firstborn, the son of the unloved, by giving him a double portion of all that he has, for he is the first of his vigor; the legal judgment for the firstborn belongs to him." 
Deuteronomy21:18 “If any man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey his father or his mother, and when they discipline him, he will not even listen to them," 
Deuteronomy21:19 then his father and mother shall seize him and bring him out to the elders of his city at the gateway of his hometown. 
Deuteronomy21:20 Then they shall say to the elders of his city, ‘This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious; he will not listen to our voice; he is a glutton and a drunkard.’" 
Deuteronomy21:21 Then all the men of his city shall stone him, and he will die; so you shall purge the evil from your midst, and all Israel will hear of it and fear." 
Deuteronomy21:22 “And if a man has committed a sin, the judgment of which is death, and he is put to death, and you hang him on a tree," 
Deuteronomy21:23 his corpse shall not hang all night on the tree, but you shall surely bury him on the same day (because cursed of God is he who is hanged), so that you do not make unclean your land which Yahweh your God gives you as an inheritance." 
Deuteronomy22:1 “You shall not see your brother’s ox or his sheep straying away and ignore them; you shall certainly bring them back to your brother. 
Deuteronomy22:2 And if your brother is not near you, or if you do not know him, then you shall bring it home to your house, and it shall be with you until your brother searches for it; then you shall give it back to him." 
Deuteronomy22:3 Thus you shall do with his donkey, and you shall do likewise with his garment, and you shall do likewise with anything lost by your brother, which he has lost and you have found. You are not allowed to ignore them." 
Deuteronomy22:4 You shall not see your brother’s donkey or his ox fallen down on the way and ignore them; you shall certainly help him to raise them up. 
Deuteronomy22:5 “A woman shall not wear man’s clothing, nor shall a man put on a woman’s clothing; for whoever does these things is an abomination to Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy22:6 “If you happen to come upon a bird’s nest along the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, and the mother sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young;" 
Deuteronomy22:7 you shall certainly let the mother go, but the young you may take for yourself, in order that it may be well with you and that you may prolong your days." 
Deuteronomy22:8 “When you build a new house, you shall make a parapet for your roof, so that you will not bring bloodguilt on your house if anyone falls from it." 
Deuteronomy22:9 “You shall not sow your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest all the produce of the seed which you have sown and the increase of the vineyard become defiled." 
Deuteronomy22:10 “You shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together. 
Deuteronomy22:11 “You shall not wear a material mixed of wool and flax together. 
Deuteronomy22:12 “You shall make yourself tassels on the four corners of your garment with which you cover yourself. 
Deuteronomy22:13 “If any man takes a wife and goes in to her and then turns against her," 
Deuteronomy22:14 and charges her with shameful deeds and brings forth against her a bad name and says, ‘I took this woman, but when I came near her, I did not find her a virgin,’" 
Deuteronomy22:15 then the girl’s father and her mother shall take and bring out the evidence of the girl’s virginity to the elders of the city at the gate. 
Deuteronomy22:16 Then the girl’s father shall say to the elders, ‘I gave my daughter to this man as a wife, but he turned against her;" 
Deuteronomy22:17 and behold, he has charged her with shameful deeds, saying, “I did not find your daughter a virgin.” But this is the evidence of my daughter’s virginity.’ And they shall spread the garment before the elders of the city." 
Deuteronomy22:18 So the elders of that city shall take the man and chastise him," 
Deuteronomy22:19 and they shall fine him one hundred shekels of silver and give it to the girl’s father because he brought forth a bad name against a virgin of Israel. And she shall be his wife; he cannot divorce her all his days. 
Deuteronomy22:20 “But if this charge is true, that the girl was not found a virgin," 
Deuteronomy22:21 then they shall bring out the girl to the doorway of her father’s house, and the men of her city shall stone her, and she will die because she has committed a disgraceful act in Israel by playing the harlot in her father’s house; thus you shall purge the evil from among you." 
Deuteronomy22:22 “If a man is found lying with a married woman, then both of them shall die, the man who lay with the woman, and the woman; thus you shall purge the evil from Israel." 
Deuteronomy22:23 “If there is a girl who is a virgin engaged to a man, and another man finds her in the city and lies with her," 
Deuteronomy22:24 then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them, and they will die; the girl, because she did not cry out in the city, and the man, because he has violated his neighbor’s wife. Thus you shall purge the evil from among you." 
Deuteronomy22:25 “But if in the field the man finds the girl who is engaged, and the man forces her and lies with her, then only the man who lies with her shall die." 
Deuteronomy22:26 But you shall do nothing to the girl; there is no sin in the girl worthy of death, for just as a man rises against his neighbor and murders him, so is this case." 
Deuteronomy22:27 When he found her in the field, the engaged girl cried out, but there was no one to save her." 
Deuteronomy22:28 “If a man finds a girl who is a virgin, who is not engaged, and seizes her and lies with her and they are found," 
Deuteronomy22:29 then the man who lay with her shall give to the girl’s father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall become his wife because he has violated her; he cannot divorce her all his days." 
Deuteronomy22:30 “A man shall not take his father’s wife so that he will not uncover his father’s skirt. 
Deuteronomy23:1 “No one who is emasculated or has his male organ cut off shall enter the assembly of Yahweh. 
Deuteronomy23:2 No one of illegitimate birth shall enter the assembly of Yahweh; even to the tenth generation, none of his seed shall enter the assembly of Yahweh." 
Deuteronomy23:3 No Ammonite or Moabite shall enter the assembly of Yahweh; even to the tenth generation, none of their seed shall ever enter the assembly of Yahweh," 
Deuteronomy23:4 because they did not meet you with food and water on the way when you came out of Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse you." 
Deuteronomy23:5 Nevertheless, Yahweh your God was not willing to listen to Balaam, but Yahweh your God turned the curse into a blessing for you because Yahweh your God loves you." 
Deuteronomy23:6 You shall never seek their peace or their prosperity all your days. 
Deuteronomy23:7 “You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother; you shall not abhor an Egyptian, for you were a sojourner in his land." 
Deuteronomy23:8 The sons of the third generation who are born to them may enter the assembly of Yahweh. 
Deuteronomy23:9 “When you go out as an army against your enemies, you shall keep yourself from every evil thing." 
Deuteronomy23:10 “If there is among you any man who is unclean because of a nocturnal emission, then he must go outside the camp; he may not reenter the camp." 
Deuteronomy23:11 But it shall be when evening approaches, he shall bathe himself with water, and at sundown he may reenter the camp." 
Deuteronomy23:12 “You shall also have a place outside the camp and go out there," 
Deuteronomy23:13 and you shall have a spade among your tools, and it shall be when you sit down outside, you shall dig with it and shall turn to cover up your excrement." 
Deuteronomy23:14 Since Yahweh your God walks in the midst of your camp to deliver you and to give your enemies over to you, therefore your camp must be holy; and He must not see anything indecent among you, or He will turn away from you." 
Deuteronomy23:15 “You shall not hand over to his master a slave who has escaped from his master to you. 
Deuteronomy23:16 He shall live with you in your midst, in the place which he shall choose in one of your gates of the towns where it pleases him; you shall not mistreat him." 
Deuteronomy23:17 “None of the daughters of Israel shall be a cult prostitute, nor shall any of the sons of Israel be a cult prostitute." 
Deuteronomy23:18 You shall not bring the hire of a harlot or the wages of a dog into the house of Yahweh your God for any votive offering, for both of these are an abomination to Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy23:19 “You shall not charge interest to your brother: interest on money, food, or anything that may be loaned at interest." 
Deuteronomy23:20 You may charge interest to a foreigner, but to your brother you shall not charge interest, so that Yahweh your God may bless you in all that you send forth your hand to do in the land which you are about to enter to possess." 
Deuteronomy23:21 “When you make a vow to Yahweh your God, you shall not delay to pay it, for Yahweh your God will surely require it of you; and it will be a sin in you." 
Deuteronomy23:22 However, if you refrain from vowing, it will not be a sin in you." 
Deuteronomy23:23 You shall be careful and do what goes out from your lips, just as you have voluntarily vowed to Yahweh your God that which you spoke with your mouth." 
Deuteronomy23:24 “When you enter your neighbor’s vineyard, then you may eat grapes until you are fully satisfied, but you shall not put any in your basket." 
Deuteronomy23:25 “When you enter your neighbor’s standing grain, then you may pluck the heads with your hand, but you shall not wield a sickle in your neighbor’s standing grain." 
Deuteronomy24:1 “If a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some indecency in her, and he writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out from his house," 
Deuteronomy24:2 and she goes out of his house and goes and becomes another man’s wife," 
Deuteronomy24:3 and if the latter husband turns against her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, or if the latter husband dies who took her to be his wife," 
Deuteronomy24:4 then her former husband who sent her away is not allowed to take her again to be his wife, since she has been defiled; for that is an abomination before Yahweh, and you shall not bring sin on the land which Yahweh your God gives you as an inheritance." 
Deuteronomy24:5 “When a man takes a new wife, he shall not go out with the army nor be charged with any duty; he shall be free at home one year and shall give gladness to his wife whom he has taken." 
Deuteronomy24:6 “No one shall take a handmill or an upper millstone in pledge, for he would be taking a life in pledge." 
Deuteronomy24:7 “If a man is caught kidnapping any of his brothers of the sons of Israel, and he mistreats him or sells him, then that thief shall die; so you shall purge the evil from among you." 
Deuteronomy24:8 “Take care against an infection of leprosy, to be very careful and to do according to all that the Levitical priests instruct you; as I have commanded them, so you shall be careful to do." 
Deuteronomy24:9 Remember what Yahweh your God did to Miriam on the way as you came out of Egypt. 
Deuteronomy24:10 “When you make your neighbor a loan of any sort, you shall not enter his house to take his deposit." 
Deuteronomy24:11 You shall stand outside, and the man to whom you make the loan shall bring the deposit out to you." 
Deuteronomy24:12 Now if he is an afflicted man, you shall not sleep with his deposit." 
Deuteronomy24:13 When the sun goes down you shall surely return the deposit to him, that he may sleep in his cloak and bless you; and it will be righteousness for you before Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy24:14 “You shall not oppress a hired person who is afflicted and needy, whether he is one of your brothers or one of your sojourners who is in your land within your gates." 
Deuteronomy24:15 You shall give him his wages on his day before the sun goes down, for he is afflicted and sets his soul on it, so that he will not cry against you to Yahweh and it become sin in you." 
Deuteronomy24:16 “Fathers shall not be put to death for their sons, nor shall sons be put to death for their fathers; each shall be put to death for his own sin." 
Deuteronomy24:17 “You shall not pervert the justice due a sojourner or an orphan, nor take a widow’s garment in pledge." 
Deuteronomy24:18 But you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt and that Yahweh your God redeemed you from there; therefore I am commanding you to do this thing. 
Deuteronomy24:19 “When you reap your harvest in your field and have forgotten a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get it; it shall be for the sojourner, for the orphan, and for the widow, in order that Yahweh your God may bless you in all the work of your hands." 
Deuteronomy24:20 When you beat your olive tree, you shall not go over the boughs after you finish; it shall be for the sojourner, for the orphan, and for the widow." 
Deuteronomy24:21 “When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not glean it after you finish; it shall be for the sojourner, for the orphan, and for the widow." 
Deuteronomy24:22 And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt; therefore I am commanding you to do this thing. 
Deuteronomy25:1 “If there is a dispute between men and they go to court for judgment, and the judges judge their case, and they justify the righteous and condemn the wicked," 
Deuteronomy25:2 then it shall be if the wicked man deserves to be struck, the judge shall then make him lie down and be struck in his presence with the number of stripes according to his guilt." 
Deuteronomy25:3 He may strike him forty times but no more, lest he strike him with many more stripes than these and your brother be dishonored in your eyes." 
Deuteronomy25:4 “You shall not muzzle the ox while it is threshing. 
Deuteronomy25:5 “If brothers live together and one of them dies and has no son, then the wife of the one who died shall not be married outside the family to a strange man. Her husband’s brother shall go in to her and take her to himself as wife and perform the duty of a husband’s brother to her." 
Deuteronomy25:6 And it will be that the firstborn whom she bears shall assume the name of his dead brother, so that his name will not be blotted out from Israel." 
Deuteronomy25:7 But if the man does not desire to take his brother’s wife, then his brother’s wife shall go up to the gate to the elders and say, ‘My husband’s brother refuses to raise up a name for his brother in Israel; he is not willing to perform the duty of a husband’s brother to me.’" 
Deuteronomy25:8 Then the elders of his city shall summon him and speak to him. And if he stands and says, ‘I do not desire to take her,’" 
Deuteronomy25:9 then his brother’s wife shall come to him in the sight of the elders and pull his sandal off his foot and spit in his face; and she shall answer and say, ‘Thus it is done to the man who does not build up his brother’s house.’" 
Deuteronomy25:10 And in Israel his name shall be called, ‘The house of him whose sandal is removed.’" 
Deuteronomy25:11 “If two men, a man and his brother, are struggling together, and the wife of one comes near to deliver her husband from the hand of the one who is striking him, and she puts out her hand and seizes his genitals," 
Deuteronomy25:12 then you shall cut off her hand; you shall not show pity. 
Deuteronomy25:13 “You shall not have in your bag differing weights, a large and a small." 
Deuteronomy25:14 You shall not have in your house differing measures, a large and a small." 
Deuteronomy25:15 You shall have a full and just weight; you shall have a full and just measure, that your days may be prolonged in the land which Yahweh your God gives you." 
Deuteronomy25:16 For everyone who does these things, everyone who acts unjustly, is an abomination to Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy25:17 “Remember what Amalek did to you along the way when you came out from Egypt," 
Deuteronomy25:18 how he met you along the way and attacked among you all the stragglers at your rear, but you were faint and weary; and he did not fear God." 
Deuteronomy25:19 Therefore it will be, when Yahweh your God has given you rest from all your surrounding enemies, in the land which Yahweh your God gives you as an inheritance to possess, you shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven; you must not forget." 
Deuteronomy26:1 “Then it will be, when you enter the land which Yahweh your God gives you as an inheritance and you possess it and live in it," 
Deuteronomy26:2 that you shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the ground which you bring in from your land that Yahweh your God gives you, and you shall put it in a basket and go to the place where Yahweh your God chooses for His name to dwell." 
Deuteronomy26:3 And you shall go to the priest who is in office in those days and say to him, ‘I declare this day to Yahweh my God that I have entered the land which Yahweh swore to our fathers to give us.’" 
Deuteronomy26:4 Then the priest shall take the basket from your hand and set it down before the altar of Yahweh your God. 
Deuteronomy26:5 And you shall answer and say before Yahweh your God, ‘My father was a wandering Aramean, and he went down to Egypt and sojourned there, few in number; but there he became a great, mighty, and populous nation." 
Deuteronomy26:6 And the Egyptians treated us harshly and afflicted us and imposed hard slave labor on us. 
Deuteronomy26:7 Then we cried out to Yahweh, the God of our fathers, and Yahweh heard our voice and saw our affliction and our toil and our oppression;" 
Deuteronomy26:8 and Yahweh brought us out of Egypt with a strong hand and an outstretched arm and with great terror and with signs and wonders; 
Deuteronomy26:9 and He has brought us to this place and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Deuteronomy26:10 So now behold, I have brought the first of the fruit of the ground which You, O Yahweh, have given me.’ And you shall set it down before Yahweh your God and worship before Yahweh your God;" 
Deuteronomy26:11 and you and the Levite and the sojourner who is among you shall be glad in all the good which Yahweh your God has given you and your household. 
Deuteronomy26:12 “When you have finished paying all the tithe of your produce in the third year, the year of tithing, then you shall give it to the Levite, to the sojourner, to the orphan, and to the widow, that they may eat within your gates and be satisfied." 
Deuteronomy26:13 Then you shall say before Yahweh your God, ‘I have purged the sacred portion from my house, and I also have given it to the Levite and the sojourner, the orphan and the widow, according to all Your commandments which You have commanded me; I have not trespassed against or forgotten any of Your commandments." 
Deuteronomy26:14 I have not eaten of it while mourning, nor have I purged any of it while I was unclean, nor have I given any of it to the dead. I have listened to the voice of Yahweh my God; I have done according to all that You have commanded me." 
Deuteronomy26:15 Look down from Your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless Your people Israel and the ground which You have given to us, a land flowing with milk and honey, as You swore to our fathers.’" 
Deuteronomy26:16 “This day Yahweh your God commands you to do these statutes and judgments. You shall therefore be careful to do them with all your heart and with all your soul. 
Deuteronomy26:17 You have today declared Yahweh to be your God, and that you would walk in His ways and keep His statutes, His commandments, and His judgments, and listen to His voice." 
Deuteronomy26:18 And Yahweh has today declared you to be His people, a treasured possession, as He promised you, and that you should keep all His commandments;" 
Deuteronomy26:19 and that He will set you high above all nations which He has made, for praise, a name, and beauty; and that you shall be a holy people to Yahweh your God, as He has spoken.”" 
Deuteronomy27:1 Then Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, “Keep the entire commandment which I am commanding you today." 
Deuteronomy27:2 So it will be on the day when you cross the Jordan to the land which Yahweh your God gives you, that you shall set up for yourself large stones and coat them with lime" 
Deuteronomy27:3 and write on them all the words of this law when you cross over, so that you may enter the land which Yahweh your God gives you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, promised you." 
Deuteronomy27:4 So it will be when you cross the Jordan, you shall set up on Mount Ebal, these stones, as I am commanding you today, and you shall coat them with lime." 
Deuteronomy27:5 Moreover, you shall build there an altar to Yahweh your God, an altar of stones; you shall not wield an iron tool on them." 
Deuteronomy27:6 You shall build the altar of Yahweh your God of uncut stones, and you shall offer on it burnt offerings to Yahweh your God;" 
Deuteronomy27:7 and you shall sacrifice peace offerings and eat there and be glad before Yahweh your God. 
Deuteronomy27:8 And you shall write on the stones all the words of this law very distinctly.” 
Deuteronomy27:9 Then Moses and the Levitical priests spoke to all Israel, saying, “Be silent and listen, O Israel! This day you have become a people for Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy27:10 You shall therefore listen to the voice of Yahweh your God and do His commandments and His statutes which I am commanding you today.” 
Deuteronomy27:11 Moses also commanded the people on that day, saying," 
Deuteronomy27:12 “When you cross the Jordan, these shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin." 
Deuteronomy27:13 For the curse, these shall stand on Mount Ebal: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali." 
Deuteronomy27:14 The Levites shall then answer and say to all the men of Israel with a loud voice," 
Deuteronomy27:15 ‘Cursed is the man who makes a graven image or a molten image, an abomination to Yahweh, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and sets it up in secret.’ And all the people shall answer and say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:16 ‘Cursed is he who dishonors his father or mother.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:17 ‘Cursed is he who moves his neighbor’s boundary mark.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:18 ‘Cursed is he who leads a blind person astray on the road.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:19 ‘Cursed is he who perverts the justice due a sojourner, orphan, and widow.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:20 ‘Cursed is he who lies with his father’s wife because he has uncovered his father’s skirt.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:21 ‘Cursed is he who lies with any animal.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:22 ‘Cursed is he who lies with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:23 ‘Cursed is he who lies with his mother-in-law.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:24 ‘Cursed is he who strikes his neighbor in secret.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:25 ‘Cursed is he who takes a bribe to strike down innocent blood.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy27:26 ‘Cursed is he who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’" 
Deuteronomy28:1 “Now it will be, if you diligently listen to the voice of Yahweh your God, being careful to do all His commandments which I am commanding you today, Yahweh your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth." 
Deuteronomy28:2 And all these blessings will come upon you and overtake you if you listen to the voice of Yahweh your God: 
Deuteronomy28:3 “Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field." 
Deuteronomy28:4 “Blessed shall be the offspring of your body and the produce of your ground and the offspring of your beasts, the increase of your herd and the young of your flock." 
Deuteronomy28:5 “Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. 
Deuteronomy28:6 “Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out." 
Deuteronomy28:7 “Yahweh shall cause your enemies who rise up against you to be defeated before you; they will come out against you one way and will flee before you seven ways. 
Deuteronomy28:8 Yahweh will command the blessing upon you in your barns and in all that you send forth your hand to do, and He will bless you in the land which Yahweh your God gives you." 
Deuteronomy28:9 Yahweh will establish you as a holy people to Himself, as He swore to you, if you keep the commandments of Yahweh your God and walk in His ways." 
Deuteronomy28:10 So all the peoples of the earth will see that you are called by the name of Yahweh, and they will be afraid of you." 
Deuteronomy28:11 And Yahweh will make you abound in prosperity, in the offspring of your body and in the offspring of your beast and in the produce of your ground, in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to give you." 
Deuteronomy28:12 Yahweh will open for you His good storehouse, the heavens, to give rain to your land in its season and to bless all the work of your hand; and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow." 
Deuteronomy28:13 And Yahweh will make you the head and not the tail, and you only will be above, and you will not be underneath, if you listen to the commandments of Yahweh your God, which I am commanding you today, to keep and to do," 
Deuteronomy28:14 and do not turn aside from any of the words which I am commanding you today, to the right or to the left, to walk after other gods to serve them." 
Deuteronomy28:15 “But it will be, if you do not listen to the voice of Yahweh your God, to keep and to do all His commandments and His statutes with which I am commanding you today, that all these curses will come upon you and overtake you:" 
Deuteronomy28:16 “Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field." 
Deuteronomy28:17 “Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. 
Deuteronomy28:18 “Cursed shall be the offspring of your body and the produce of your ground, the increase of your herd and the young of your flock." 
Deuteronomy28:19 “Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out." 
Deuteronomy28:20 “Yahweh will send upon you the curse, confusion, and rebuke, in all that you send forth your hand to do, until you are destroyed and until you perish quickly, on account of the evil of your deeds, because you have forsaken Me." 
Deuteronomy28:21 Yahweh will make the pestilence cling to you until He has consumed you from the land where you are entering to possess it. 
Deuteronomy28:22 Yahweh will strike you with consumption and with fever and with inflammation and with fiery heat and with the sword and with scorching wind and with mildew, and they will pursue you until you perish." 
Deuteronomy28:23 And the heaven which is over your head shall be bronze, and the earth which is under you, iron." 
Deuteronomy28:24 Yahweh will make the rain of your land powder and dust; from heaven it shall come down on you until you are destroyed. 
Deuteronomy28:25 “Yahweh shall cause you to be defeated before your enemies; you will go out one way against them, but you will flee seven ways before them, and you will become an example of terror to all the kingdoms of the earth." 
Deuteronomy28:26 And your carcasses will be food to all birds of the sky and to the beasts of the earth, and there will be no one to frighten them away." 
Deuteronomy28:27 “Yahweh will strike you with the boils of Egypt and with tumors and with the scab and with the itch, from which you cannot be healed." 
Deuteronomy28:28 Yahweh will strike you with madness and with blindness and with bewilderment of heart; 
Deuteronomy28:29 and you will grope at noon, as the blind man gropes in darkness, and you will not succeed in your ways; but you shall only be oppressed and robbed all your days, with none to save you." 
Deuteronomy28:30 You shall betroth a wife, but another man will violate her; you shall build a house, but you will not live in it; you shall plant a vineyard, but you will not use its fruit." 
Deuteronomy28:31 Your ox shall be slaughtered before your eyes, but you will not eat of it; your donkey shall be torn away from you and will not be returned to you; your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and you will have none to save you." 
Deuteronomy28:32 Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people, while your eyes look on and yearn for them all the day long; but there will be nothing you can do." 
Deuteronomy28:33 A people whom you do not know shall eat up the produce of your ground and all your labors, and you will never be anything but oppressed and crushed all your days." 
Deuteronomy28:34 And you shall be driven mad by the sight of what your eyes see. 
Deuteronomy28:35 Yahweh will strike you on the knees and legs with sore boils, from which you cannot be healed, from the sole of your foot to the top of your head." 
Deuteronomy28:36 Yahweh will lead you and your king, whom you set over you, to a nation which neither you nor your fathers have known, and there you shall serve other gods, wood and stone." 
Deuteronomy28:37 You shall become an object of horror, a proverb, and a byword among all the people where Yahweh drives you." 
Deuteronomy28:38 “You shall bring out much seed to the field, but you will gather in little, for the locust will consume it." 
Deuteronomy28:39 You shall plant and cultivate vineyards, but you will neither drink of the wine nor gather the grapes, for the worm will devour them." 
Deuteronomy28:40 You shall have olive trees throughout your territory, but you will not anoint yourself with the oil, for your olives will drop off." 
Deuteronomy28:41 You shall become the father of sons and daughters, but they will not be yours, for they will go into captivity." 
Deuteronomy28:42 The cricket shall possess all your trees and the produce of your ground. 
Deuteronomy28:43 The sojourner who is among you shall rise above you higher and higher, but you will go down lower and lower." 
Deuteronomy28:44 He shall lend to you, but you will not lend to him; he shall be the head, and you will be the tail." 
Deuteronomy28:45 “So all these curses shall come on you and pursue you and overtake you until you are destroyed, because you would not listen to the voice of Yahweh your God to keep His commandments and His statutes which He commanded you." 
Deuteronomy28:46 And they shall become a sign and a wonder on you and your seed forever. 
Deuteronomy28:47 “Because you did not serve Yahweh your God with gladness and a merry heart—because of the abundance of all things," 
Deuteronomy28:48 therefore you shall serve your enemies whom Yahweh will send against you, in hunger, in thirst, in nakedness, and in the lack of all things; and He will put an iron yoke on your neck until He has destroyed you." 
Deuteronomy28:49 “Yahweh will bring a nation against you from afar, from the end of the earth, as the eagle swoops down, a nation whose tongue you shall not understand," 
Deuteronomy28:50 a nation of fierce countenance who will have no respect for the old, nor show favor to the young." 
Deuteronomy28:51 Moreover, it shall eat the offspring of your herd and the produce of your ground until you are destroyed, who also will not allow grain, new wine, or oil, and the increase of your herd or the young of your flock to remain for you until they have caused you to perish." 
Deuteronomy28:52 And it shall besiege you in all your gates until your high and fortified walls in which you trusted come down throughout your land, and it shall besiege you in all your gates throughout your land which Yahweh your God has given you." 
Deuteronomy28:53 Then you shall eat the offspring of your own body, the flesh of your sons and of your daughters whom Yahweh your God has given you, during the siege and the distress by which your enemy will oppress you." 
Deuteronomy28:54 The man who is refined and very delicate among you shall be hostile toward his brother and toward the wife he cherishes and toward the rest of his children who remain," 
Deuteronomy28:55 so that he will not give even one of them any of the flesh of his children which he will eat, since he has nothing else remaining, during the siege and the distress by which your enemy will oppress you in all your gates." 
Deuteronomy28:56 The refined and delicate woman among you, who would not venture to set the sole of her foot on the ground for delicateness and refinement, shall be hostile toward the husband she cherishes and toward her son and daughter," 
Deuteronomy28:57 and toward her afterbirth which issues from between her legs and toward her children whom she bears; for she will eat them secretly for lack of anything else, during the siege and the distress by which your enemy will oppress you in your gates." 
Deuteronomy28:58 “If you are not careful to do all the words of this law which are written in this book, to fear this glorious and fearsome name, Yahweh your God," 
Deuteronomy28:59 then Yahweh will bring wondrous plagues on you and plagues on those who are your seed, even great and enduring plagues, and miserable and enduring sicknesses." 
Deuteronomy28:60 And He will bring back on you all the diseases of Egypt of which you were afraid, and they will cling to you." 
Deuteronomy28:61 Also every sickness and every plague, which is not written in the book of this law, Yahweh will bring on you until you are destroyed." 
Deuteronomy28:62 Then you shall remain few in number, whereas you were as numerous as the stars of heaven, because you did not listen to the voice of Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy28:63 And it will be that as Yahweh delighted over you to prosper you and multiply you, so Yahweh will delight over you to make you perish and destroy you; and you will be torn from the land where you are entering to possess it." 
Deuteronomy28:64 Moreover, Yahweh will scatter you among all peoples, from one end of the earth to the other end of the earth; and there you shall serve other gods, wood and stone, which you or your fathers have not known." 
Deuteronomy28:65 Moreover, among those nations you shall find no relief, and there will be no resting place for the sole of your foot; but there Yahweh will give you a trembling heart, failing of eyes, and despair of soul." 
Deuteronomy28:66 So your life shall hang in doubt before you; and you will be in dread night and day and shall not have any faith in your life. 
Deuteronomy28:67 In the morning you shall say, ‘Would that it were evening!’ And at evening you shall say, ‘Would that it were morning!’ because of the dread of your heart which you dread, and because of the sight of your eyes which you will see." 
Deuteronomy28:68 And Yahweh will bring you back to Egypt in ships, by the way about which I spoke to you, ‘You will never see it again!’ And there you will offer yourselves for sale to your enemies as male and female slaves, but there will be no buyer.”" 
Deuteronomy29:1 These are the words of the covenant which Yahweh commanded Moses to cut with the sons of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant which He had cut with them at Horeb." 
Deuteronomy29:2 And Moses summoned all Israel and said to them, “You have seen all that Yahweh did before your eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh and all his servants and all his land;" 
Deuteronomy29:3 the great trials which your eyes have seen, those great signs and wonders." 
Deuteronomy29:4 Yet to this day Yahweh has not given you a heart to know, nor eyes to see, nor ears to hear." 
Deuteronomy29:5 And I have led you forty years in the wilderness; your clothes have not worn out on you, and your sandal has not worn out on your foot." 
Deuteronomy29:6 You have not eaten bread, nor have you drunk wine or strong drink, in order that you might know that I am Yahweh your God." 
Deuteronomy29:7 Then you came to this place, and Sihon the king of Heshbon and Og the king of Bashan came out to meet us for battle, but we struck them down;" 
Deuteronomy29:8 and we took their land and gave it as an inheritance to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of the Manassites." 
Deuteronomy29:9 So you shall keep the words of this covenant to do them, that you may prosper in all that you do." 
Deuteronomy29:10 “You stand today, all of you, before Yahweh your God: your heads, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, even all the men of Israel," 
Deuteronomy29:11 your little ones, your wives, and the sojourner who is within your camps, from the one who chops your wood to the one who draws your water," 
Deuteronomy29:12 that you may enter into the covenant with Yahweh your God and into His oath, which Yahweh your God is cutting with you today," 
Deuteronomy29:13 in order that He may establish you today as His people and that He may be your God, just as He spoke to you and as He swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob." 
Deuteronomy29:14 “Now not with you alone am I cutting this covenant and this oath," 
Deuteronomy29:15 but both with those who stand here with us today in the presence of Yahweh our God and with those who are not with us here today— 
Deuteronomy29:16 for you know how we lived in the land of Egypt, and how we came through the midst of the nations through which you passed;" 
Deuteronomy29:17 moreover, you have seen their detestable things and their idols of wood, stone, silver, and gold, which they had with them—" 
Deuteronomy29:18 lest there be among you a man or woman, or family or tribe, whose heart turns away today from Yahweh our God, to go to serve the gods of those nations; lest there be among you a root bearing poisonous fruit and wormwood." 
Deuteronomy29:19 And it will be when he hears the words of this curse, that he will bless himself in his heart, saying, ‘I have peace though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart in order to sweep away the watered land with the dry.’" 
Deuteronomy29:20 Yahweh shall not be willing to pardon him, but rather the anger of Yahweh and His jealousy will burn against that man, and every curse which is written in this book will rest on him, and Yahweh will blot out his name from under heaven." 
Deuteronomy29:21 Then Yahweh will separate him out for adversity from all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant which are written in this book of the law." 
Deuteronomy29:22 “And the generation to come, your sons who rise up after you and the foreigner who comes from a distant land, shall see the plagues of the land and the diseases with which Yahweh has afflicted it, and they will say," 
Deuteronomy29:23 ‘All its land is brimstone and salt, a burning waste, unsown and nothing sprouting, and no grass grows in it, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, which Yahweh overthrew in His anger and in His wrath.’" 
Deuteronomy29:24 And all the nations will say, ‘Why has Yahweh done thus to this land? Why this great burning anger?’" 
Deuteronomy29:25 Then men will say, ‘Because they forsook the covenant of Yahweh, the God of their fathers, which He cut with them when He brought them out of the land of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy29:26 And they went and served other gods and worshiped them, gods whom they have not known and whom He had not apportioned to them." 
Deuteronomy29:27 Therefore, the anger of Yahweh was kindled against that land, to bring upon it every curse which is written in this book;" 
Deuteronomy29:28 and Yahweh uprooted them from their land in anger and in fury and in great wrath, and He cast them into another land, as it is this day.’" 
Deuteronomy29:29 “The secret things belong to Yahweh our God, but the things revealed belong to us and to our sons forever, that we may do all the words of this law." 
Deuteronomy30:1 “So it will be, when all of these things have come upon you, the blessing and the curse which I have set before you, and you cause these things to return to your heart in all the nations where Yahweh your God has banished you," 
Deuteronomy30:2 and you return to Yahweh your God and listen to His voice with all your heart and soul according to all that I am commanding you today, you and your sons," 
Deuteronomy30:3 then Yahweh your God will return you from captivity and return His compassion on you, and He will gather you again from all the peoples where Yahweh your God has scattered you." 
Deuteronomy30:4 If those of you who are banished are at the ends of the sky, from there Yahweh your God will gather you, and from there He will take you back." 
Deuteronomy30:5 And Yahweh your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it; and He will prosper you and multiply you more than your fathers." 
Deuteronomy30:6 “Moreover Yahweh your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your seed, to love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul, so that you may live." 
Deuteronomy30:7 And Yahweh your God will inflict all these curses on your enemies and on those who hate you, who persecuted you." 
Deuteronomy30:8 And you shall return and listen to the voice of Yahweh, and you shall do all His commandments which I am commanding you today." 
Deuteronomy30:9 Then Yahweh your God will prosper you abundantly in all the work of your hand, in the offspring of your body and in the offspring of your cattle and in the produce of your ground, for Yahweh will return to rejoice over you for good, just as He rejoiced over your fathers," 
Deuteronomy30:10 when you listen to the voice of Yahweh your God to keep His commandments and His statutes which are written in this book of the law, when you return to Yahweh your God with all your heart and soul." 
Deuteronomy30:11 “For this commandment which I am commanding you today is not too difficult for you, nor is it far from you." 
Deuteronomy30:12 It is not in heaven, that you should say, ‘Who will go up to heaven for us and get it for us and make us hear it, that we may do it?’" 
Deuteronomy30:13 Nor is it beyond the sea, that you should say, ‘Who will cross the sea for us and get it for us and make us hear it, that we may do it?’" 
Deuteronomy30:14 But the word is very near you, in your mouth and in your heart, that you may do it." 
Deuteronomy30:15 “See, I have set before you today life and prosperity, and death and calamity;" 
Deuteronomy30:16 in that I am commanding you today to love Yahweh your God, to walk in His ways, and to keep His commandments and His statutes and His judgments, that you may live and multiply, and that Yahweh your God may bless you in the land where you are entering to possess it." 
Deuteronomy30:17 But if your heart turns away and you will not listen, but are drawn away and worship other gods and serve them," 
Deuteronomy30:18 I declare to you today that you shall surely perish. You will not prolong your days in the land where you are crossing the Jordan to enter and possess it. 
Deuteronomy30:19 I call heaven and earth to witness against you today, that I have set before you life and death, the blessing and the curse. So choose life in order that you may live, you and your seed," 
Deuteronomy30:20 by loving Yahweh your God, by listening to His voice, and by holding fast to Him; for this is your life and the length of your days, that you may live in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them.”" 
Deuteronomy31:1 So Moses went and spoke these words to all Israel. 
Deuteronomy31:2 And he said to them, “I am 120 years old today; I am no longer able to come and go, and Yahweh has said to me, ‘You shall not cross this Jordan.’" 
Deuteronomy31:3 It is Yahweh your God who will cross ahead of you; He will destroy these nations before you, and you shall dispossess them. Joshua is the one who will cross ahead of you, just as Yahweh has spoken." 
Deuteronomy31:3 It is Yahweh your God who will cross ahead of you; He will destroy these nations before you, and you shall dispossess them. Joshua is the one who will cross ahead of you, just as Yahweh has spoken." 
Deuteronomy31:4 And Yahweh will do to them just as He did to Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land, when He destroyed them." 
Deuteronomy31:5 And Yahweh will give them over before you, and you shall do to them according to all the commandments which I have commanded you." 
Deuteronomy31:6 Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or be in dread of them, for Yahweh your God is the one who goes with you. He will not fail you or forsake you.”" 
Deuteronomy31:7 Then Moses called to Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, “Be strong and courageous, for you shall go with this people into the land which Yahweh has sworn to their fathers to give them, and you shall give it to them as an inheritance." 
Deuteronomy31:7 Then Moses called to Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, “Be strong and courageous, for you shall go with this people into the land which Yahweh has sworn to their fathers to give them, and you shall give it to them as an inheritance." 
Deuteronomy31:8 And Yahweh is the one who goes ahead of you; He will be with you. He will not fail you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed.” 
Deuteronomy31:9 So Moses wrote this law and gave it to the priests, the sons of Levi who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, and to all the elders of Israel." 
Deuteronomy31:10 Then Moses commanded them, saying, “At the end of every seven years, at the time of the year of the remission of debts, at the Feast of Booths," 
Deuteronomy31:11 when all Israel comes to appear before Yahweh your God at the place which He will choose, you shall read this law in front of all Israel in their hearing." 
Deuteronomy31:12 Assemble the people, the men and the women and little ones and the sojourner who is within your gates, so that they may hear and so that they may learn and fear Yahweh your God and be careful to do all the words of this law." 
Deuteronomy31:13 And their children, who have not known, will hear and learn to fear Yahweh your God, all the days you live on the land which you are about to cross the Jordan to possess.”" 
Deuteronomy31:14 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Behold, the time for you to die is near; call Joshua and present yourselves at the tent of meeting, that I may commission him.” So Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves at the tent of meeting." 
Deuteronomy31:14 Then Yahweh said to Moses, “Behold, the time for you to die is near; call Joshua and present yourselves at the tent of meeting, that I may commission him.” So Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves at the tent of meeting." 
Deuteronomy31:15 And Yahweh appeared in the tent in a pillar of cloud, and the pillar of cloud stood at the doorway of the tent." 
Deuteronomy31:16 And Yahweh said to Moses, “Behold, you are about to lie down with your fathers; and this people will arise and play the harlot with the foreign gods of the land, into the midst of which they are going, and they will forsake Me and break My covenant which I have cut with them." 
Deuteronomy31:17 Then My anger will be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them and hide My face from them, and they will be consumed, and many evils and troubles will find them, so that they will say in that day, ‘Is it not because our God is not among us that these evils have found us?’" 
Deuteronomy31:18 But I will surely hide My face in that day because of all the evil which they will do, for they will turn to other gods." 
Deuteronomy31:19 “So now, write this song for yourselves and teach it to the sons of Israel; put it in their mouths, so that this song may be a witness for Me against the sons of Israel." 
Deuteronomy31:20 For when I bring them into the land flowing with milk and honey, which I swore to their fathers, and they have eaten and are satisfied and become fat, then they will turn to other gods and serve them and spurn Me and break My covenant." 
Deuteronomy31:21 Then it will be, when many evils and troubles have found them, that this song will answer them as a witness (for it shall not be forgotten from the mouths of their seed); for I know their intent which they are developing today, before I have brought them into the land which I swore.”" 
Deuteronomy31:22 So Moses wrote this song the same day and taught it to the sons of Israel. 
Deuteronomy31:23 Then He commissioned Joshua the son of Nun and said, “Be strong and courageous, for you shall bring the sons of Israel into the land which I swore to them, and I will be with you.”" 
Deuteronomy31:23 Then He commissioned Joshua the son of Nun and said, “Be strong and courageous, for you shall bring the sons of Israel into the land which I swore to them, and I will be with you.”" 
Deuteronomy31:24 And it happened, when Moses finished writing the words of this law in a book until they were complete," 
Deuteronomy31:25 that Moses commanded the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, saying," 
Deuteronomy31:26 “Take this book of the law and place it beside the ark of the covenant of Yahweh your God, that it may be there as a witness against you." 
Deuteronomy31:27 For I know your rebellion and your stiff-neck; behold, while I am still alive with you today, you have been rebellious against Yahweh; how much more, then, after my death?" 
Deuteronomy31:28 Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes and your officers, that I may speak these words in their hearing and call the heavens and the earth to witness against them." 
Deuteronomy31:29 For I know that after my death you will act corruptly and turn away from the way which I have commanded you; and evil will befall you in the last days, for you will do that which is evil in the sight of Yahweh, provoking Him to anger with the work of your hands.”" 
Deuteronomy31:30 Then Moses spoke in the hearing of all the assembly of Israel the words of this song, until they were complete:" 
Deuteronomy32:1 “Give ear, O heavens, and let me speak; And let the earth hear the words of my mouth." 
Deuteronomy32:2 Let what I have learned drop as the rain, My speech distill as the dew, As the droplets on the fresh grass And as the showers on the herb." 
Deuteronomy32:3 For I proclaim the name of Yahweh; Ascribe greatness to our God! 
Deuteronomy32:4 The Rock! His work is perfect, For all His ways are just; A God of faithfulness and without injustice, Righteous and upright is He." 
Deuteronomy32:5 They have acted corruptly toward Him, They are not His children because of their defect; But are a perverse and crooked generation." 
Deuteronomy32:6 Do you thus repay Yahweh, O people who are wickedly foolish and without wisdom? Is not He your Father who has bought you? He has made you and established you." 
Deuteronomy32:7 Remember the ancient days, Consider the years from generation to generation. Ask your father, and he will declare to you, Your elders, and they will speak to you." 
Deuteronomy32:8 When the Most High gave the nations their inheritance, When He separated the sons of man, He set the boundaries of the peoples According to the number of the sons of Israel." 
Deuteronomy32:9 For Yahweh’s portion is His people; Jacob is the allotment of His inheritance. 
Deuteronomy32:10 He found him in a desert land, And in the howling waste of a wilderness; He encircled him; He cared for him; He guarded him as the pupil of His eye." 
Deuteronomy32:11 Like an eagle that stirs up its nest, That hovers over its young, He spread His wings and caught them; He carried them on His pinions." 
Deuteronomy32:12 Yahweh alone guided him, And there was no foreign god with him." 
Deuteronomy32:13 He made him ride on the high places of the earth, And he ate the produce of the field; And He made him suck honey from the rock, And oil from the flinty rock," 
Deuteronomy32:14 Curds of cows, and milk of the flock, With fat of lambs, And rams, the breed of Bashan, and goats, With the finest of the wheat— And of the blood of grapes you drank wine." 
Deuteronomy32:15 “But Jeshurun grew fat and kicked— You grew fat, thick, and sleek— Then he abandoned God who made him, And treated the Rock of his salvation with wicked foolishness." 
Deuteronomy32:16 They made Him jealous with strange gods; With abominations they provoked Him to anger. 
Deuteronomy32:17 They sacrificed to demons who were not God, To gods whom they have not known, New gods who came lately, Whom your fathers did not dread." 
Deuteronomy32:18 You neglected the Rock who begot you, And forgot the God who brought you forth." 
Deuteronomy32:19 “And Yahweh saw this and spurned them Because of the provocation of His sons and daughters. 
Deuteronomy32:20 Then He said, ‘I will hide My face from them; I will see what their end shall be; For they are a perverse generation, Sons in whom is no faithfulness." 
Deuteronomy32:21 They have made Me jealous with what is not God; They have provoked Me to anger with their idols. So I will make them jealous with those who are not a people; I will provoke them to anger with a wickedly foolish nation," 
Deuteronomy32:22 For a fire is kindled in My anger, And it burns to the lowest part of Sheol, And it consumes the earth with its produce, And it sets on fire the foundations of the mountains." 
Deuteronomy32:23 ‘I will heap calamities on them; I will exhaust My arrows on them. 
Deuteronomy32:24 They will be wasted by famine, and consumed by plague And bitter destruction; And the teeth of beasts I will send upon them, With the venom of crawling things of the dust." 
Deuteronomy32:25 Outside the sword will bereave, And inside terror— Both choice man and virgin, The nursing baby with the man of gray hair." 
Deuteronomy32:26 I would have said, “I will cut them to pieces; I will cause the memory of them to cease from men,”" 
Deuteronomy32:27 Had I not feared the provocation by the enemy, Lest their adversaries misjudge, Lest they say, “Our hand is triumphant, And Yahweh has not done all this.”’" 
Deuteronomy32:28 “For they are a nation where counsel perishes, And there is no discernment in them." 
Deuteronomy32:29 Would that they were wise, that they had insight into this, That they would understand their future!" 
Deuteronomy32:30 How could one pursue one thousand, And two put ten thousand to flight, Unless their Rock had sold them, And Yahweh had handed them over?" 
Deuteronomy32:31 Indeed their rock is not like our Rock, Even our enemies themselves judge this." 
Deuteronomy32:32 For their vine is from the vine of Sodom, And from the fields of Gomorrah; Their grapes are grapes of poison, Their clusters, bitter." 
Deuteronomy32:33 Their wine is the venom of serpents, And the deadly poison of cobras." 
Deuteronomy32:34 ‘Is it not laid up in store with Me, Sealed up in My treasuries?" 
Deuteronomy32:35 Vengeance is Mine, and retribution, In due time their foot will stumble; For the day of their disaster is near, And the impending things are hastening upon them.’" 
Deuteronomy32:36 For Yahweh will render justice to His people, And will have compassion on His slaves, When He sees that their strength is gone, And there is none remaining, bond or free." 
Deuteronomy32:37 And He will say, ‘Where are their gods, The rock in which they sought refuge?" 
Deuteronomy32:38 Who ate the fat of their sacrifices, And drank the wine of their drink offering? Let them rise up and help you, Let them be your hiding place!" 
Deuteronomy32:39 See now that I, I am He, And there is no god besides Me; It is I who put to death and give life. I have wounded, and it is I who heal, And there is no one who can deliver from My hand." 
Deuteronomy32:40 Indeed, I lift up My hand to heaven, And say, as I live forever," 
Deuteronomy32:41 If I sharpen My flashing sword, And My hand takes hold on judgment, I will render vengeance on My adversaries, And I will repay those who hate Me." 
Deuteronomy32:42 I will make My arrows drunk with blood, And My sword will devour flesh, With the blood of the slain and the captives, From the long‑haired leaders of the enemy.’" 
Deuteronomy32:43 O nations, cause His people to shout for joy; For He will avenge the blood of His slaves, And He will render vengeance on His adversaries, And He will atone for His land and His people.”" 
Deuteronomy32:44 Then Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the hearing of the people, he and Joshua the son of Nun." 
Deuteronomy32:44 Then Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the hearing of the people, he and Joshua the son of Nun." 
Deuteronomy32:45 Then Moses finished speaking all these words to all Israel," 
Deuteronomy32:46 and he said to them, “Place in your heart all the words with which I am warning you today, which you shall command your sons to be careful to do, even all the words of this law." 
Deuteronomy32:47 For it is not an idle word for you; indeed it is your life. And by this word you will prolong your days in the land, which you are about to cross the Jordan to possess.”" 
Deuteronomy32:48 And Yahweh spoke to Moses that very same day, saying," 
Deuteronomy32:49 “Go up to this mountain of the Abarim, Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab opposite Jericho, and look at the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the sons of Israel for a possession." 
Deuteronomy32:50 Then die on the mountain where you ascend, and be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother died on Mount Hor and was gathered to his people," 
Deuteronomy32:51 because you both acted unfaithfully with Me in the midst of the sons of Israel at the waters of Meribah-kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin, because you both did not treat Me as holy in the midst of the sons of Israel." 
Deuteronomy32:52 For you shall see the land at a distance, but you shall not go there, into the land which I am giving the sons of Israel.”" 
Deuteronomy33:1 Now this is the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the sons of Israel before his death. 
Deuteronomy33:2 And he said, “Yahweh came from Sinai, And He dawned on them from Seir; He shone forth from Mount Paran, And He came from the midst of ten thousand holy ones; At His right hand there was flashing lightning for them." 
Deuteronomy33:3 Indeed, He loves the people; All Your holy ones are in Your hand, And they followed in Your steps; Everyone is bearing up Your words." 
Deuteronomy33:4 Moses commanded us with a law, A possession for the assembly of Jacob." 
Deuteronomy33:5 And He was king in Jeshurun, When the heads of the people were gathered, The tribes of Israel together." 
Deuteronomy33:6 “May Reuben live and not die, Nor his men be few.”" 
Deuteronomy33:7 And this regarding Judah; so he said, “Hear, O Yahweh, the voice of Judah, And bring him to his people. With his hands he contended for them, And may You be a help against his adversaries.”" 
Deuteronomy33:8 Of Levi he said, “Let Your Thummim and Your Urim belong to Your holy one, Whom You tested at Massah, With whom You contended at the waters of Meribah;" 
Deuteronomy33:9 Who said of his father and his mother, ‘I did not consider them’; And he did not recognize his brothers, Nor did he know his own sons, For they kept Your word, And they observed Your covenant." 
Deuteronomy33:10 They shall teach Your judgments to Jacob, And Your law to Israel. They shall put incense before You, And whole burnt offerings on Your altar." 
Deuteronomy33:11 O Yahweh, bless his substance, And accept the work of his hands; Crush the loins of those who rise up against him, And those who hate him, so that they will not rise again.”" 
Deuteronomy33:12 Of Benjamin he said, “May the beloved of Yahweh dwell in security by Him, Who shields him all the day, And he dwells between His shoulders.”" 
Deuteronomy33:13 Of Joseph he said, “Blessed of Yahweh be his land, With the choice things of heaven, with the dew, And from the deep lying beneath," 
Deuteronomy33:14 And with the choice produce of the sun, And with the choice yield of the months," 
Deuteronomy33:15 And with the best things of the ancient mountains, And with the choice things of the everlasting hills," 
Deuteronomy33:16 And with the choice things of the earth and its fullness, And the favor of Him who dwelt in the bush. Let it come to the head of Joseph, And to the top of the head of the one distinguished among his brothers." 
Deuteronomy33:17 As the firstborn of his ox, splendor is his, And his horns are the horns of the wild ox; With them he will push the peoples, All at once, to the ends of the earth. And those are the ten thousands of Ephraim, And those are the thousands of Manasseh.”" 
Deuteronomy33:18 Of Zebulun he said, “Be glad, Zebulun, in your going forth, And, Issachar, in your tents." 
Deuteronomy33:19 They will call peoples to the mountain; There they will offer righteous sacrifices; For they will draw out the abundance of the seas, And the hidden treasures of the sand.”" 
Deuteronomy33:20 Of Gad he said, “Blessed is the one who enlarges Gad; He lies down as a lion, And tears the arm, also the top of the head." 
Deuteronomy33:21 Then he provided the first part for himself, For there the ruler’s portion was reserved; And he came with the heads of the people; He did the righteousness of Yahweh, And His judgments with Israel.”" 
Deuteronomy33:22 Of Dan he said, “Dan is a lion’s whelp, That leaps forth from Bashan.”" 
Deuteronomy33:23 Of Naphtali he said, “O Naphtali, satisfied with favor, And full of the blessing of Yahweh, Take possession of the sea and the south.”" 
Deuteronomy33:24 Of Asher he said, “More blessed than sons is Asher; May he be favored by his brothers, And may he dip his foot in oil." 
Deuteronomy33:25 Your locks will be iron and bronze, And according to your days, so your fortitude will be." 
Deuteronomy33:26 “There is none like the God of Jeshurun, Who rides the heavens to your help, And through the skies in His majesty." 
Deuteronomy33:27 The eternal God is a dwelling place, And underneath are the everlasting arms; And He drove out the enemy from before you, And said, ‘Destroy!’" 
Deuteronomy33:28 So Israel dwells in security, The fountain of Jacob secluded, In a land of grain and new wine; His heavens also drop down dew." 
Deuteronomy33:29 Blessed are you, O Israel; Who is like you, a people saved by Yahweh, Who is the shield of your help And the sword of your majesty! So your enemies will cower before you, And you will tread upon their high places.”" 
Deuteronomy34:1 Then Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, which is opposite Jericho. And Yahweh showed him all the land, Gilead as far as Dan," 
Deuteronomy34:2 and all Naphtali and the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah as far as the western sea," 
Deuteronomy34:3 and the Negev and the plain in the valley of Jericho, the city of palm trees, as far as Zoar." 
Deuteronomy34:4 Then Yahweh said to him, “This is the land which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, ‘I will give it to your seed’; I have let you see it with your eyes, but you shall not go over there.”" 
Deuteronomy34:5 So Moses the servant of Yahweh died there in the land of Moab, according to the command of Yahweh." 
Deuteronomy34:6 And He buried him in the valley in the land of Moab, opposite Beth-peor; but no man knows his burial place to this day." 
Deuteronomy34:7 Now Moses was 120 years old when he died; his eye was not dim, nor his vigor abated." 
Deuteronomy34:8 So the sons of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days. Then the days of weeping and mourning for Moses came to an end. 
Deuteronomy34:9 Now Joshua the son of Nun was filled with the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands on him; and the sons of Israel listened to him and did as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Deuteronomy34:9 Now Joshua the son of Nun was filled with the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands on him; and the sons of Israel listened to him and did as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Deuteronomy34:10 And there has not yet arisen a prophet in Israel like Moses, whom Yahweh knew face to face," 
Deuteronomy34:11 in regard to all the signs and wonders which Yahweh sent him to do in the land of Egypt against Pharaoh, all his servants, and all his land," 
Deuteronomy34:12 and in regard to all the mighty power and in regard to all the great terror which Moses did in the sight of all Israel. 
Joshua1:1 Now it came about after the death of Moses the servant of Yahweh, that Yahweh spoke to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses’ attendant, saying," 
Joshua1:2 “Moses My servant is dead; so now arise, cross this Jordan, you and all this people, to the land which I am giving to them, to the sons of Israel." 
Joshua1:3 Every place on which the sole of your foot treads, I have given it to you, just as I spoke to Moses." 
Joshua1:4 From the wilderness and this Lebanon, even as far as the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and as far as the Great Sea toward the setting of the sun will be your territory." 
Joshua1:5 No man will be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I have been with Moses, I will be with you; I will not fail you or forsake you." 
Joshua1:6 Be strong and courageous, for you shall cause this people to inherit the land which I swore to their fathers to give them." 
Joshua1:7 Only be strong and very courageous to be careful to do according to all the law which Moses My servant commanded you; do not turn aside from it to the right or to the left, so that you may be prosperous wherever you go." 
Joshua1:8 This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it; for then you will make your way successful, and then you will be prosperous." 
Joshua1:9 Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous! Do not be in dread or be dismayed, for Yahweh your God is with you wherever you go.”" 
Joshua1:10 Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying," 
Joshua1:11 “Pass through the midst of the camp and command the people, saying, ‘Prepare provisions for yourselves, for within three days you are to cross this Jordan, to go in to possess the land which Yahweh your God is giving you, to possess it.’”" 
Joshua1:12 To the Reubenites and to the Gadites and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joshua said," 
Joshua1:13 “Remember the word which Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded you, saying, ‘Yahweh your God gives you rest and will give you this land.’" 
Joshua1:14 Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle shall remain in the land which Moses gave you beyond the Jordan, but you shall cross before your brothers in battle array, all your valiant warriors, and shall help them" 
Joshua1:15 until Yahweh gives your brothers rest as He gives you, and they also possess the land which Yahweh your God is giving them. Then you shall return to the land of your possession and possess it, which Moses the servant of Yahweh gave you beyond the Jordan to the east toward the sunrise.”" 
Joshua1:16 And they answered Joshua, saying, “All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you send us we will go." 
Joshua1:17 Just as we listened to Moses in all things, so we will listen to you; only may Yahweh your God be with you as He was with Moses." 
Joshua1:18 Anyone who rebels against your command and does not listen to your words, in all that you command him, shall be put to death; only be strong and courageous.”" 
Joshua2:1 Then Joshua the son of Nun sent two men as spies secretly from Shittim, saying, “Go, see the land, especially Jericho.” So they went and came into the house of a harlot whose name was Rahab and lodged there." 
Joshua2:2 And it was told to the king of Jericho, saying, “Behold, men from the sons of Israel have come here tonight to search out the land.”" 
Joshua2:3 And the king of Jericho sent word to Rahab, saying, “Bring out the men who have come to you, who have entered your house, for they have come to search out all the land.”" 
Joshua2:4 But the woman had taken the two men and hidden them, and she said, “Yes, the men came to me, but I did not know where they were from." 
Joshua2:5 Now it happened when it was time to shut the gate at dark, that the men went out; I do not know where the men went. Pursue them quickly, for you may overtake them.”" 
Joshua2:6 But she had brought them up to the roof and concealed them in the stalks of flax which she had laid in order on the roof. 
Joshua2:7 So the men pursued them on the road to the Jordan to the fords; and as soon as those who were pursuing them had gone out, they shut the gate." 
Joshua2:8 Now before they lay down, she came up to them on the roof" 
Joshua2:9 and said to the men, “I know that Yahweh has given you the land, and that the terror of you has fallen on us, and that all the inhabitants of the land have melted away before you." 
Joshua2:10 For we have heard how Yahweh dried up the water of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon and Og, whom you devoted to destruction." 
Joshua2:11 Indeed we heard it, and our hearts melted, and a courageous spirit no longer rose up in any man because of you; for Yahweh your God, He is God in heaven above and on earth beneath." 
Joshua2:12 So now, please swear to me by Yahweh, since I have shown lovingkindness to you, that you also will show lovingkindness to my father’s household and give me a pledge of truth," 
Joshua2:13 and preserve my father and my mother and my brothers and my sisters alive, with all who belong to them, and deliver our lives from death.”" 
Joshua2:14 So the men said to her, “Our life for yours if you do not tell this business of ours; and it will be when Yahweh gives us the land that we will show lovingkindness and truth to you.”" 
Joshua2:15 Then she let them down by a rope through the window, for her house was on the city wall, so that she was living on the wall." 
Joshua2:16 And she said to them, “Go to the hill country, lest the pursuers reach you. And hide yourselves there for three days until the pursuers return. Then afterward you may go on your way.”" 
Joshua2:17 And the men said to her, “We shall be free from this oath to you which you have made us swear," 
Joshua2:18 unless, when we come into the land, you tie this cord of scarlet thread in the window through which you let us down, and gather to yourself into the house your father and your mother and your brothers and all your father’s household." 
Joshua2:19 And it will be that anyone who goes out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood shall be on his own head, and we shall be free; but anyone who is with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head if a hand is laid on him." 
Joshua2:20 But if you tell this business of ours, then we shall be free from the oath which you have made us swear.”" 
Joshua2:21 And she said, “According to your words, so be it.” So she sent them away, and they went; and she tied the scarlet cord in the window." 
Joshua2:22 And they went and came to the hill country and remained there for three days until the pursuers returned. The pursuers had sought them all along the road but had not found them. 
Joshua2:23 Then the two men returned and came down from the hill country and crossed over and came to Joshua the son of Nun, and they recounted to him all that had happened to them." 
Joshua2:24 And they said to Joshua, “Surely Yahweh has given all the land into our hands; moreover, all the inhabitants of the land have melted away before us.”" 
Joshua3:1 Then Joshua rose early in the morning; and he and all the sons of Israel set out from Shittim and came to the Jordan, and they lodged there before they crossed." 
Joshua3:2 Now it happened that at the end of three days the officers went through the midst of the camp; 
Joshua3:3 and they commanded the people, saying, “When you see the ark of the covenant of Yahweh your God with the Levitical priests carrying it, then you shall set out from your place and go after it." 
Joshua3:4 However, there shall be between you and it a distance of about 2,000 cubits by measure. Do not come near it, that you may know the way by which you shall go, for you have not passed this way before.”" 
Joshua3:5 Then Joshua said to the people, “Set yourselves apart as holy, for tomorrow Yahweh will do wondrous deeds among you.”" 
Joshua3:6 And Joshua spoke to the priests, saying, “Carry the ark of the covenant and cross over ahead of the people.” So they carried the ark of the covenant and went ahead of the people." 
Joshua3:7 Then Yahweh said to Joshua, “This day I will begin to magnify you in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that just as I have been with Moses, I will be with you." 
Joshua3:8 Moreover, you shall command the priests who are carrying the ark of the covenant, saying, ‘When you come to the edge of the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan.’”" 
Joshua3:9 Then Joshua said to the sons of Israel, “Come near, and hear the words of Yahweh your God.”" 
Joshua3:10 And Joshua said, “By this you shall know that the living God is among you, and that He will assuredly dispossess from before you the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Hivite, the Perizzite, the Girgashite, the Amorite, and the Jebusite." 
Joshua3:11 Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth is crossing over ahead of you into the Jordan." 
Joshua3:12 So now, take for yourselves twelve men from the tribes of Israel, one man for each tribe." 
Joshua3:13 And it will be that when the soles of the feet of the priests who carry the ark of Yahweh, the Lord of all the earth, rest in the waters of the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan will be cut off, and the waters which are flowing down from above will stand in one heap.”" 
Joshua3:14 So it happened that when the people set out from their tents to cross the Jordan with the priests carrying the ark of the covenant before the people," 
Joshua3:15 and when those who carried the ark came into the Jordan, and the feet of the priests carrying the ark were dipped in the edge of the water (for the Jordan overflows all its banks all the days of harvest)," 
Joshua3:16 the waters which were flowing down from above stood and rose up in one heap, a great distance away at Adam, the city that is beside Zarethan; and those which were flowing down toward the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, were completely cut off. So the people crossed opposite Jericho." 
Joshua3:17 And the priests who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh stood firm on dry ground in the middle of the Jordan while all Israel crossed on dry ground until all the nation had completed crossing the Jordan. 
Joshua4:1 Now it happened when all the nation had completed crossing the Jordan, that Yahweh spoke to Joshua, saying," 
Joshua4:2 “Take for yourselves twelve men from the people, one man from each tribe," 
Joshua4:3 and command them, saying, ‘Carry for yourselves twelve stones from here out of the middle of the Jordan, from the place where the priests’ feet are standing firm, and carry them over with you and lay them down in the lodging place where you will lodge tonight.’”" 
Joshua4:4 So Joshua called the twelve men whom he had appointed from the sons of Israel, one man from each tribe;" 
Joshua4:5 and Joshua said to them, “Cross again before the ark of Yahweh your God into the middle of the Jordan, and each of you carry a stone on his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Israel," 
Joshua4:6 in order that this would be a sign among you, so that when your children ask later, saying, ‘What do these stones mean to you?’" 
Joshua4:7 then you shall say to them, ‘Because the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of Yahweh; when it crossed the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off.’ So these stones shall become a memorial to the sons of Israel forever.”" 
Joshua4:8 Thus the sons of Israel did as Joshua commanded and carried twelve stones from the middle of the Jordan, just as Yahweh spoke to Joshua, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Israel; and they carried them over with them to the lodging place and laid them down there." 
Joshua4:9 But Joshua set up twelve stones in the middle of the Jordan at the place where the feet of the priests who carried the ark of the covenant were standing, and they are there to this day." 
Joshua4:10 Now the priests who carried the ark were standing in the middle of the Jordan until everything was completed that Yahweh had commanded Joshua to speak to the people, according to all that Moses had commanded Joshua. And the people hurried and crossed." 
Joshua4:11 And it happened when all the people had completed crossing, that the ark of Yahweh and the priests crossed before the people." 
Joshua4:12 And the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh crossed over in battle array before the sons of Israel, just as Moses had spoken to them;" 
Joshua4:13 about 40,000 equipped for war crossed for battle before Yahweh to the desert plains of Jericho." 
Joshua4:14 On that day, Yahweh magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel, so that they feared him, just as they had feared Moses all the days of his life." 
Joshua4:15 Then Yahweh said to Joshua," 
Joshua4:16 “Command the priests who carry the ark of the testimony that they come up from the Jordan.” 
Joshua4:17 So Joshua commanded the priests, saying, “Come up from the Jordan.”" 
Joshua4:18 So it happened when the priests who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh had come up from the middle of the Jordan, and the soles of the priests’ feet were lifted up to the dry ground, that the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and went over all its banks as before." 
Joshua4:19 Now the people came up from the Jordan on the tenth of the first month and camped at Gilgal on the eastern edge of Jericho. 
Joshua4:20 And those twelve stones which they had taken from the Jordan, Joshua set up at Gilgal." 
Joshua4:21 Then he said to the sons of Israel, “When your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, ‘What do these stones mean?’" 
Joshua4:22 then you shall make your children know, saying, ‘Israel crossed this Jordan on dry land.’" 
Joshua4:23 For Yahweh your God dried up the waters of the Jordan before you until you had crossed, just as Yahweh your God had done to the Red Sea, which He dried up before us until we had crossed," 
Joshua4:24 that all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of Yahweh is strong, so that you may fear Yahweh your God forever.”" 
Joshua5:1 Now it happened when all the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea, heard how Yahweh had dried up the waters of the Jordan before the sons of Israel until they had crossed, that their hearts melted, and there was no spirit in them any longer because of the sons of Israel." 
Joshua5:2 At that time Yahweh said to Joshua, “Make for yourself flint knives and circumcise again the sons of Israel the second time.”" 
Joshua5:3 So Joshua made himself flint knives and circumcised the sons of Israel at Gibeath-haaraloth. 
Joshua5:4 Now this is the reason why Joshua circumcised them: all the people who came out of Egypt who were males, all the men of war, died in the wilderness along the way when they came out of Egypt." 
Joshua5:5 For all the people who came out were circumcised, but all the people who were born in the wilderness along the way as they came out of Egypt had not been circumcised." 
Joshua5:6 For the sons of Israel had walked forty years in the wilderness, until all the nation, that is, the men of war who came out of Egypt, were completely destroyed because they did not listen to the voice of Yahweh, to whom Yahweh had sworn that He would not let them see the land which Yahweh had sworn to their fathers to give us, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Joshua5:7 And their sons whom He raised up in their place, Joshua circumcised; for they were uncircumcised because they had not circumcised them along the way." 
Joshua5:8 Now it happened that when they had completed circumcising all the nation, they remained in their places in the camp until they were healed." 
Joshua5:9 Then Yahweh said to Joshua, “Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you.” So the name of that place is called Gilgal to this day." 
Joshua5:10 Then the sons of Israel camped at Gilgal and celebrated the Passover on the evening of the fourteenth day of the month on the desert plains of Jericho. 
Joshua5:11 And on the day after the Passover, on that very day, they ate some of the yield of the land, unleavened cakes and roasted grain." 
Joshua5:12 Then the manna ceased on the day after they had eaten some of the produce of the land, so that the sons of Israel no longer had manna, but they ate some of the produce of the land of Canaan during that year." 
Joshua5:13 Now it happened when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man was standing opposite him with his sword drawn in his hand, and Joshua went to him and said to him, “Are you for us or for our adversaries?”" 
Joshua5:14 He said, “No! Rather I indeed come now as commander of the host of Yahweh.” And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and bowed down and said to him, “What has my lord to say to his slave?”" 
Joshua5:15 The commander of the host of Yahweh said to Joshua, “Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy.” And Joshua did so." 
Joshua6:1 Now Jericho was tightly shut because of the sons of Israel; no one went out, and no one came in." 
Joshua6:2 And Yahweh said to Joshua, “See, I have given Jericho into your hand, with its king and the valiant warriors." 
Joshua6:3 And you shall march around the city, all the men of war circling the city once. You shall do so for six days." 
Joshua6:4 Also seven priests shall carry seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark; then on the seventh day you shall march around the city seven times, and the priests shall blow the trumpets." 
Joshua6:5 And it will be that when they make a long blast with the ram’s horn, and when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout; and the wall of the city will fall down beneath itself, and the people will go up every man straight ahead.”" 
Joshua6:6 So Joshua the son of Nun called the priests and said to them, “Carry the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests carry seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark of Yahweh.”" 
Joshua6:7 Then he said to the people, “Go forward, and march around the city, and let the armed men go on before the ark of Yahweh.”" 
Joshua6:8 And so it happened that, when Joshua had spoken to the people, the seven priests carrying the seven trumpets of rams’ horns before Yahweh passed on forward and blew the trumpets; and the ark of the covenant of Yahweh came after them." 
Joshua6:9 And the armed men went before the priests who blew the trumpets, and the rear guard came after the ark, while they continued to blow the trumpets." 
Joshua6:10 But Joshua commanded the people, saying, “You shall not shout nor let your voice be heard nor let a word proceed out of your mouth, until the day I tell you, ‘Shout!’ Then you shall shout!”" 
Joshua6:11 So he had the ark of Yahweh taken around the city, circling it once; then they came into the camp and spent the night in the camp." 
Joshua6:12 Then Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests carried the ark of Yahweh." 
Joshua6:13 And the seven priests carrying the seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark of Yahweh went on continually and blew the trumpets; and the armed men went before them, and the rear guard came after the ark of Yahweh, and they continued to blow the trumpets." 
Joshua6:14 Thus the second day they marched around the city once and returned to the camp; they did so for six days. 
Joshua6:15 Then it happened that on the seventh day they rose early at the breaking of dawn and marched around the city in the same manner seven times; only on that day they marched around the city seven times. 
Joshua6:16 Now it happened that on the seventh time, the priests blew the trumpets, and Joshua said to the people, “Shout! For Yahweh has given you the city." 
Joshua6:17 And the city shall be devoted to destruction, it and all that is in it belongs to Yahweh; only Rahab the harlot and all who are with her in the house shall live because she hid the messengers whom we sent." 
Joshua6:18 But as for you, only keep yourselves from the things devoted to destruction, lest as you are devoting them to destruction, you also take some of the things devoted to destruction and make the camp of Israel devoted to destruction and bring trouble on it." 
Joshua6:19 But all the silver and gold and articles of bronze and iron are holy to Yahweh; they shall go into the treasury of Yahweh.” 
Joshua6:20 So the people shouted, and the priests blew the trumpets; and when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, the people shouted with a great shout, and the wall fell down beneath itself, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight ahead, and they took the city." 
Joshua6:21 And they devoted to destruction everything in the city, both man and woman, young and old, and ox and sheep and donkey, with the edge of the sword." 
Joshua6:22 Now to the two men who had spied out the land, Joshua said, “Go into the harlot’s house and bring the woman and all she has out of there, as you have sworn to her.”" 
Joshua6:23 So the young men who were spies went in and brought out Rahab and her father and her mother and her brothers and all she had; they also brought out all her relatives and placed them outside the camp of Israel. 
Joshua6:24 But they burned the city with fire, and all that was in it. Only the silver and gold, and articles of bronze and iron, they put into the treasury of the house of Yahweh." 
Joshua6:25 However, Rahab the harlot and her father’s household and all she had, Joshua preserved alive; and she has lived in the midst of Israel to this day, for she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho." 
Joshua6:26 Then Joshua made them swear an oath at that time, saying, “Cursed before Yahweh is the man who rises up and builds this city Jericho; with the loss of his firstborn he shall lay its foundation, and with the loss of his youngest son he shall set up its gates.”" 
Joshua6:27 So Yahweh was with Joshua, and the report about him was in all the land." 
Joshua7:1 But the sons of Israel acted unfaithfully in regard to the things devoted to destruction. Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, from the tribe of Judah, took some of the devoted things; therefore the anger of Yahweh burned against the sons of Israel." 
Joshua7:2 Now Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is near Beth-aven, east of Bethel, and said to them, “Go up and spy out the land.” So the men went up and spied out Ai." 
Joshua7:3 Then they returned to Joshua and said to him, “Do not have all the people go up; only about two or three thousand men need go up to strike down Ai; do not have all the people toil up there, for they are few.”" 
Joshua7:4 So about three thousand men from the people went up there, but they fled from the men of Ai." 
Joshua7:5 And the men of Ai struck down about thirty-six of their men and pursued them from the gate as far as Shebarim and struck them down on the descent, so the hearts of the people melted and became as water." 
Joshua7:6 Then Joshua tore his clothes and fell to the earth on his face before the ark of Yahweh until the evening, both he and the elders of Israel; and they put dust on their heads." 
Joshua7:7 Joshua said, “Alas, O Lord Yahweh, why did You ever bring this people over the Jordan, only to give us into the hand of the Amorites, to make us perish? If only we had been willing to live beyond the Jordan!" 
Joshua7:8 O Lord, what can I say since Israel has turned their back before their enemies?" 
Joshua7:9 And the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it, and they will surround us and cut off our name from the earth. And what will You do for Your great name?”" 
Joshua7:10 So Yahweh said to Joshua, “Rise up! Why is it that you have fallen on your face?" 
Joshua7:11 Israel has sinned, and they have also trespassed against My covenant which I commanded them. And they have even taken some of the things devoted to destruction and have both stolen and dealt falsely. Moreover, they have also put them among their own things." 
Joshua7:12 Therefore the sons of Israel cannot rise before their enemies; they turn their backs before their enemies, for they have become devoted to destruction. I will not be with you anymore unless you destroy the things devoted to destruction from your midst." 
Joshua7:13 Rise up! Set the people apart as holy and say, ‘Set yourselves apart as holy for tomorrow, for thus Yahweh, the God of Israel, has said, “There are things devoted to destruction in your midst, O Israel. You cannot rise before your enemies until you have removed the things devoted to destruction from your midst.”" 
Joshua7:14 In the morning then you shall come near by your tribes. And it will be that the tribe which Yahweh takes by lot shall come near by families, and the family which Yahweh takes shall come near by households, and the household which Yahweh takes shall come near man by man." 
Joshua7:15 And it will be that the one who is taken with the things devoted to destruction shall be burned with fire, he and all that belongs to him, because he has trespassed against the covenant of Yahweh, and because he has committed a disgraceful thing in Israel.’”" 
Joshua7:16 So Joshua arose early in the morning and brought Israel near by tribes, and the tribe of Judah was taken." 
Joshua7:17 And he brought the family of Judah near, and he took the family of the Zerahites; and he brought the family of the Zerahites near man by man, and Zabdi was taken." 
Joshua7:18 And he brought his household near man by man; and Achan, son of Carmi, son of Zabdi, son of Zerah, from the tribe of Judah, was taken." 
Joshua7:19 Then Joshua said to Achan, “My son, I implore you, give glory to Yahweh, the God of Israel, and give praise to Him; and declare to me now what you have done. Do not hide it from me.”" 
Joshua7:20 So Achan answered Joshua and said, “Truly, I have sinned against Yahweh, the God of Israel, and this is what I did:" 
Joshua7:21 I saw among the spoil a beautiful mantle from Shinar and two hundred shekels of silver and a bar of gold fifty shekels in weight; then I coveted them and took them; and behold, they are concealed in the earth inside my tent with the silver underneath it.”" 
Joshua7:22 So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent; and behold, it was concealed in his tent with the silver underneath it." 
Joshua7:23 And they took them from inside the tent and brought them to Joshua and to all the sons of Israel, and they poured them out before Yahweh." 
Joshua7:24 Then Joshua and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah, the silver, the mantle, the bar of gold, his sons, his daughters, his oxen, his donkeys, his sheep, his tent, and all that belonged to him; and they brought them up to the valley of Achor." 
Joshua7:25 And Joshua said, “Why have you troubled us? Yahweh will trouble you this day.” And all Israel stoned him with stones; and they burned them with fire after they had stoned them with stones." 
Joshua7:26 Then they raised over him a great heap of stones that stands to this day, and Yahweh turned from His burning anger. Therefore the name of that place has been called the valley of Achor to this day." 
Joshua8:1 Now Yahweh said to Joshua, “Do not fear or be dismayed. Take all the people of war with you and arise, go up to Ai; see, I have given into your hand the king of Ai, his people, his city, and his land." 
Joshua8:2 So you shall do to Ai and its king just as you did to Jericho and its king; you shall take only its spoil and its cattle as plunder for yourselves. Set an ambush for the city behind it.” 
Joshua8:3 So Joshua rose with all the people of war to go up to Ai; and Joshua chose 30,000 men, valiant warriors, and sent them out at night." 
Joshua8:4 And he commanded them, saying, “See, you are going to ambush the city from behind it. Do not go very far from the city, but all of you be ready." 
Joshua8:5 Then I and all the people who are with me will come near the city. And it will be that when they come out to meet us as at the first, we will flee before them." 
Joshua8:6 And they will come out after us until we have drawn them away from the city, for they will say, ‘They are fleeing before us as at the first.’ So we will flee before them." 
Joshua8:7 And you shall rise from your ambush and take possession of the city, for Yahweh your God will give it into your hand." 
Joshua8:8 Then it will be that when you have seized the city, that you shall set the city on fire. You shall do it according to the word of Yahweh. See, I have commanded you.”" 
Joshua8:9 So Joshua sent them away, and they went to the place of ambush and remained between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of Ai; but Joshua spent that night among the people." 
Joshua8:10 Now Joshua rose early in the morning and mustered the people, and he went up with the elders of Israel before the people to Ai." 
Joshua8:11 Then all the people of war who were with him went up and drew near and arrived in front of the city and camped on the north side of Ai. Now there was a valley between him and Ai. 
Joshua8:12 And he took about 5,000 men and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of the city." 
Joshua8:13 So they set the people, all the army that was on the north side of the city, and its rear guard on the west side of the city, and Joshua went that night into the midst of the valley." 
Joshua8:14 Now it happened that when the king of Ai saw it, the men of the city hurried and rose up early and went out to meet Israel in battle, he and all his people at the appointed place before the desert plain. But he did not know that there was an ambush against him behind the city." 
Joshua8:15 And Joshua and all Israel pretended to be beaten before them and fled by the way of the wilderness. 
Joshua8:16 And all the people who were in the city were called together to pursue them, and they pursued Joshua and were drawn away from the city." 
Joshua8:17 So not a man remained in Ai or Bethel who had not gone out after Israel, and they forsook the city, leaving it open, and pursued Israel." 
Joshua8:18 Then Yahweh said to Joshua, “Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai, for I will give it into your hand.” So Joshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city." 
Joshua8:19 Then the men in ambush rose quickly from their place, and when he had stretched out his hand, they ran and entered the city and captured it, and they quickly set the city on fire." 
Joshua8:20 Then the men of Ai turned back and looked, and behold, the smoke of the city ascended to the sky, and they had no place to flee this way or that, for the people who had been fleeing to the wilderness turned against the pursuers." 
Joshua8:21 But Joshua and all Israel saw that the men in ambush had captured the city and that the smoke of the city ascended. So they turned back and struck down the men of Ai. 
Joshua8:22 And the others came out from the city to meet them, so that they were trapped in the midst of Israel, some on this side and some on that side; and they struck them down until there was no one remaining for him who survived or escaped." 
Joshua8:23 But they seized the king of Ai alive and brought him to Joshua. 
Joshua8:24 Now it happened that when Israel had finished killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the field in the wilderness where they pursued them, and all of them fell by the edge of the sword until they were completely destroyed, then all Israel turned back to Ai and struck it with the edge of the sword." 
Joshua8:25 So all who fell that day, both men and women, were 12,000—all the people of Ai." 
Joshua8:26 For Joshua did not withdraw his hand with which he stretched out the javelin until he had devoted to destruction all the inhabitants of Ai. 
Joshua8:27 Israel took only the cattle and the spoil of that city as plunder for themselves, according to the word of Yahweh which He had commanded Joshua." 
Joshua8:28 So Joshua burned Ai and made it a heap forever, a desolation until this day." 
Joshua8:29 And he hanged the king of Ai on a tree until evening; and at sunset Joshua gave a command, and they took his body down from the tree and threw it at the entrance of the city gate and raised over it a great heap of stones that stands to this day." 
Joshua8:30 Then Joshua built an altar to Yahweh, the God of Israel, on Mount Ebal," 
Joshua8:31 just as Moses the servant of Yahweh had commanded the sons of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, an altar of uncut stones on which no man had wielded an iron tool; and they offered burnt offerings on it to Yahweh and sacrificed peace offerings." 
Joshua8:32 And he wrote there on the stones a copy of the law of Moses, which he had written, in the presence of the sons of Israel." 
Joshua8:33 And all Israel with their elders and officers and their judges were standing on both sides of the ark before the Levitical priests who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, the sojourner as well as the native. Half of them stood in front of Mount Gerizim and half of them in front of Mount Ebal, just as Moses the servant of Yahweh had given a command at first to bless the people of Israel." 
Joshua8:34 Then afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according to all that is written in the book of the law." 
Joshua8:35 There was not a word of all that Moses had commanded which Joshua did not read before all the assembly of Israel with the women and the little ones and the sojourners who were going among them. 
Joshua9:1 Now it happened when all the kings who were beyond the Jordan, in the hill country and in the Shephelah and on all the coast of the Great Sea toward Lebanon, the Hittite and the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite and the Jebusite, heard of it," 
Joshua9:2 that they gathered themselves together with one accord to fight with Joshua and with Israel. 
Joshua9:3 Now the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to Ai. 
Joshua9:4 So they also acted craftily and went and traveled as envoys and took worn-out sacks on their donkeys, and wineskins worn-out and torn and mended," 
Joshua9:5 and worn-out and patched sandals on their feet, and worn-out clothes on themselves; and all the bread of their provision was dry and was crumbled." 
Joshua9:6 And they went to Joshua to the camp at Gilgal and said to him and to the men of Israel, “We have come from a far country; so now, cut a covenant with us.”" 
Joshua9:7 Then the men of Israel said to the Hivites, “Perhaps you are living within our land; how then shall we cut a covenant with you?”" 
Joshua9:8 But they said to Joshua, “We are your servants.” Then Joshua said to them, “Who are you and where do you come from?”" 
Joshua9:9 They said to him, “Your servants have come from a very far country because of the fame of Yahweh your God; for we have heard the report of Him and all that He did in Egypt," 
Joshua9:10 and all that He did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon king of Heshbon and to Og king of Bashan who was at Ashtaroth." 
Joshua9:11 So our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spoke to us, saying, ‘Take provisions in your hand for the journey, and go to meet them and say to them, “We are your servants; now then, cut a covenant with us.”’" 
Joshua9:12 This bread of ours was warm when we took it for our provisions out of our houses on the day that we left to come to you; but now behold, it is dry and has become crumbled." 
Joshua9:13 And these wineskins which we filled were new, and behold, they are torn; and these clothes of ours and our sandals are worn out because of the very long journey.”" 
Joshua9:14 So the men of Israel took some of their provisions, but they did not ask for the command of Yahweh." 
Joshua9:15 And Joshua made peace with them and cut a covenant with them, to let them live; and the leaders of the congregation swore an oath to them." 
Joshua9:16 Now it happened at the end of three days after they had cut a covenant with them, that they heard that they were near them and that they were living nearly among them." 
Joshua9:17 Then the sons of Israel set out and came to their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon and Chephirah and Beeroth and Kiriath-jearim. 
Joshua9:18 But the sons of Israel did not strike them down because the leaders of the congregation had sworn to them by Yahweh the God of Israel. And the whole congregation grumbled against the leaders. 
Joshua9:19 Then all the leaders said to the whole congregation, “We have sworn to them by Yahweh, the God of Israel, so now we cannot touch them." 
Joshua9:20 This we will do to them, even let them live, so that wrath will not be upon us for the oath which we swore to them.”" 
Joshua9:21 So the leaders said to them, “Let them live.” Thus they became hewers of wood and drawers of water for the whole congregation, just as the leaders had spoken to them." 
Joshua9:22 Then Joshua called for them and spoke to them, saying, “Why have you deceived us, saying, ‘We are very far from you,’ when you are living nearly in the midst of us?" 
Joshua9:23 So now, you are cursed, and you shall never be cut loose from being slaves, both hewers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God.”" 
Joshua9:24 So they answered Joshua and said, “Because it was certainly told to your slaves that Yahweh your God had commanded His servant Moses to give you all the land and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land before you; therefore we feared greatly for our lives because of you and have done this thing." 
Joshua9:25 So now, behold, we are in your hands; do as it seems good and right in your sight to do to us.”" 
Joshua9:26 Thus he did to them and delivered them from the hands of the sons of Israel, and they did not kill them." 
Joshua9:27 But Joshua made them that day hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation and for the altar of Yahweh, to this day, in the place which He would choose." 
Joshua10:1 Now it happened that when Adoni-zedek king of Jerusalem heard that Joshua had captured Ai and had devoted it to destruction (just as he had done to Jericho and its king, so he had done to Ai and its king), and that the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel and were within their land," 
Joshua10:2 they feared exceedingly because Gibeon was a great city, like one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all its men were mighty." 
Joshua10:3 Therefore Adoni-zedek king of Jerusalem sent word to Hoham king of Hebron and to Piram king of Jarmuth and to Japhia king of Lachish and to Debir king of Eglon, saying," 
Joshua10:4 “Come up to me and help me, and let us strike Gibeon, for it has made peace with Joshua and with the sons of Israel.”" 
Joshua10:5 So the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon, gathered together and went up, they with all their armies, and camped by Gibeon and fought against it." 
Joshua10:6 Then the men of Gibeon sent word to Joshua to the camp at Gilgal, saying, “Do not abandon your slaves; come up to us quickly and save us and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites that live in the hill country have assembled against us.”" 
Joshua10:7 So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he and all the people of war with him and all the valiant warriors." 
Joshua10:8 And Yahweh said to Joshua, “Do not fear them, for I have given them into your hands; not one of them shall stand before you.”" 
Joshua10:9 So Joshua came upon them suddenly—he had gone up, marching all night from Gilgal." 
Joshua10:10 And Yahweh threw them into confusion before Israel, and He struck them with a great slaughter at Gibeon and pursued them by the way of the ascent of Beth-horon and struck them as far as Azekah and Makkedah." 
Joshua10:11 Now it happened as they fled from before Israel, while they were at the descent of Beth-horon, that Yahweh threw down large stones from heaven on them as far as Azekah, and they died; there were more who died from the hailstones than those whom the sons of Israel killed with the sword." 
Joshua10:12 Then Joshua spoke to Yahweh in the day when Yahweh gave over the Amorites before the sons of Israel, and he said in the sight of Israel, “O sun, stand still at Gibeon, And O moon in the valley of Aijalon.”" 
Joshua10:13 So the sun stood still, and the moon stopped, Until the nation avenged themselves of their enemies. Is it not written in the book of Jashar? And the sun stood in the middle of the sky and did not hasten to go down for about a whole day." 
Joshua10:14 And there was no day like that before it or after it, when Yahweh listened to the voice of a man; for Yahweh fought for Israel." 
Joshua10:15 Then Joshua and all Israel with him returned to the camp to Gilgal. 
Joshua10:16 And these five kings fled and hid themselves in the cave at Makkedah. 
Joshua10:17 Then it was told Joshua, saying, “The five kings have been found hidden in the cave at Makkedah.”" 
Joshua10:18 And Joshua said, “Roll large stones against the mouth of the cave and assign men by it to keep watch over them," 
Joshua10:19 but as for you, do not stand there; pursue your enemies and attack them in the rear. Do not allow them to enter their cities, for Yahweh your God has given them into your hand.”" 
Joshua10:20 Now it happened when Joshua and the sons of Israel had finished striking them with a very great slaughter until they were completely destroyed, and the survivors—those of them who survived—had entered the fortified cities," 
Joshua10:21 that all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace. No one so much as lifted his tongue against any of the sons of Israel. 
Joshua10:22 Then Joshua said, “Open the mouth of the cave and bring these five kings out to me from the cave.”" 
Joshua10:23 And they did so and brought these five kings out to him from the cave: the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon." 
Joshua10:24 Now it happened that when they brought these kings out to Joshua, Joshua called for all the men of Israel and said to the chiefs of the men of war who had gone with him, “Come near, put your feet on the necks of these kings.” So they came near and put their feet on their necks." 
Joshua10:25 Joshua then said to them, “Do not fear or be dismayed! Be strong and courageous, for thus Yahweh will do to all your enemies with whom you fight.”" 
Joshua10:26 So afterward Joshua struck them and put them to death, and he hanged them on five trees; and they hung on the trees until evening." 
Joshua10:27 Now it happened that at sunset Joshua gave a command, and they took them down from the trees and threw them down into the cave where they had hidden themselves, and they put large stones over the mouth of the cave, to this very day." 
Joshua10:28 Now Joshua captured Makkedah on that day and struck it and its king with the edge of the sword; he devoted it to destruction and every person who was in it. He left no survivor. Thus he did to the king of Makkedah just as he had done to the king of Jericho. 
Joshua10:29 Then Joshua and all Israel with him passed on from Makkedah to Libnah and fought against Libnah. 
Joshua10:30 And Yahweh gave it also with its king into the hands of Israel, and he struck it and every person who was in it with the edge of the sword. He left no survivor remaining in it. Thus he did to its king just as he had done to the king of Jericho." 
Joshua10:31 And Joshua and all Israel with him passed on from Libnah to Lachish, and they camped by it and fought against it." 
Joshua10:32 And Yahweh gave Lachish into the hands of Israel; and he captured it on the second day and struck it and every person who was in it with the edge of the sword, according to all that he had done to Libnah." 
Joshua10:33 Then Horam king of Gezer came up to help Lachish, and Joshua struck him and his people down until there was no survivor remaining for him." 
Joshua10:34 And Joshua and all Israel with him passed on from Lachish to Eglon, and they camped by it and fought against it." 
Joshua10:35 And they captured it on that day and struck it with the edge of the sword; and every person who was in it, he devoted to destruction on that day according to all that he had done to Lachish." 
Joshua10:36 Then Joshua and all Israel with him went up from Eglon to Hebron, and they fought against it." 
Joshua10:37 And they captured it and struck it and its king and all its cities and all the persons who were in it with the edge of the sword. He left no survivor remaining, according to all that he had done to Eglon. And he devoted it and every person who was in it to destruction." 
Joshua10:38 Then Joshua and all Israel with him returned to Debir, and they fought against it." 
Joshua10:39 And he captured it and its king and all its cities, and they struck them with the edge of the sword and devoted every person who was in it to destruction. He left no survivor remaining. Just as he had done to Hebron, so he did to Debir and its king, as he had also done to Libnah and its king." 
Joshua10:40 Thus Joshua struck all the land—the hill country and the Negev and the Shephelah and the slopes—as well as all their kings. He left no survivor remaining, but he devoted to destruction all who breathed, just as Yahweh, the God of Israel, had commanded." 
Joshua10:41 And Joshua struck them from Kadesh-barnea even as far as Gaza, and all the country of Goshen even as far as Gibeon." 
Joshua10:42 And Joshua captured all these kings and their lands at one time because Yahweh, the God of Israel, fought for Israel." 
Joshua10:43 So Joshua and all Israel with him returned to the camp at Gilgal. 
Joshua11:1 Now it happened, when Jabin king of Hazor heard of it, that he sent to Jobab king of Madon and to the king of Shimron and to the king of Achshaph," 
Joshua11:1 Now it happened, when Jabin king of Hazor heard of it, that he sent to Jobab king of Madon and to the king of Shimron and to the king of Achshaph," 
Joshua11:2 and to the kings who were of the north in the hill country and in the Arabah—south of Chinneroth and in the Shephelah and on the heights of Dor on the west— 
Joshua11:3 to the Canaanite on the east and on the west, and the Amorite and the Hittite and the Perizzite and the Jebusite in the hill country, and the Hivite at the foot of Hermon in the land of Mizpeh." 
Joshua11:4 Then they came out, they and all their armies with them, as many people as the sand that is on the seashore, with very many horses and chariots." 
Joshua11:5 So all of these kings agreed to meet, and they came and encamped together at the waters of Merom, to fight against Israel." 
Joshua11:6 Then Yahweh said to Joshua, “Do not be afraid because of them, for tomorrow at this time I will give all of them over, slain, before Israel; you shall hamstring their horses and burn their chariots with fire.”" 
Joshua11:7 So Joshua and all the people of war with him came upon them suddenly by the waters of Merom, and they fell upon them." 
Joshua11:8 And Yahweh gave them into the hand of Israel, so that they struck them down, and they pursued them as far as Great Sidon and Misrephoth-maim and the valley of Mizpeh to the east; and they struck them until there was no survivor remaining for them." 
Joshua11:9 And Joshua did to them as Yahweh had said to him; he hamstrung their horses and burned their chariots with fire. 
Joshua11:10 Then Joshua turned back at that time and captured Hazor and struck its king with the sword; for Hazor formerly was the head of all these kingdoms. 
Joshua11:11 And they struck every person who was in it with the edge of the sword, devoting them to destruction; there was no one left who breathed. And he burned Hazor with fire." 
Joshua11:12 And Joshua captured all the cities of these kings and all their kings, and he struck them with the edge of the sword, and he devoted them to destruction, just as Moses the servant of Yahweh had commanded." 
Joshua11:13 However, Israel did not burn any cities that stood on their mounds, except Hazor alone, which Joshua burned." 
Joshua11:14 Now all the spoil of these cities and the cattle, the sons of Israel took as their plunder; but they struck every man with the edge of the sword until they had destroyed them. They left no one remaining who breathed." 
Joshua11:15 Just as Yahweh had commanded Moses His servant, so Moses commanded Joshua, and so Joshua did; he left nothing undone of all that Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Joshua11:16 Thus Joshua took all that land: the hill country and all the Negev, all that land of Goshen, the Shephelah, the Arabah, the hill country of Israel and its Shephelah" 
Joshua11:17 from Mount Halak, that rises toward Seir, even as far as Baal-gad in the valley of Lebanon at the foot of Mount Hermon. And he captured all their kings and struck them down and put them to death." 
Joshua11:18 Joshua waged war a long time with all these kings. 
Joshua11:19 There was not a city which made peace with the sons of Israel except the Hivites living in Gibeon; they took them all in battle. 
Joshua11:20 For it was of Yahweh to strengthen their hearts, to meet Israel in battle in order that he might devote them to destruction, that they might receive no mercy, but that he might destroy them, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Joshua11:21 Then Joshua came at that time and cut off the Anakim from the hill country, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab and from all the hill country of Judah and from all the hill country of Israel. Joshua devoted them to destruction with their cities." 
Joshua11:22 There were no Anakim left in the land of the sons of Israel; only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod some remained." 
Joshua11:23 So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that Yahweh had spoken to Moses, and Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel according to their divisions by their tribes. Thus the land was quiet from war." 
Joshua12:1 Now these are the kings of the land whom the sons of Israel struck down, and whose land they possessed beyond the Jordan to the east toward the sunrise, from the valley of the Arnon as far as Mount Hermon, and all the Arabah to the east:" 
Joshua12:2 Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon and ruled from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, both the middle of the valley and half of Gilead, even as far as the brook Jabbok, the border of the sons of Ammon;" 
Joshua12:3 and the Arabah as far as the Sea of Chinneroth toward the east, and as far as the sea of the Arabah, even the Salt Sea, eastward toward Beth-jeshimoth, and on the south, at the foot of the slopes of Pisgah;" 
Joshua12:4 and the territory of Og king of Bashan, one of the remnant of the Rephaim, who lived at Ashtaroth and at Edrei" 
Joshua12:5 and ruled over Mount Hermon and Salecah and all Bashan, as far as the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and half of Gilead, as far as the border of Sihon king of Heshbon." 
Joshua12:6 Moses the servant of Yahweh and the sons of Israel struck them down; and Moses the servant of Yahweh gave it to the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh as a possession. 
Joshua12:7 Now these are the kings of the land whom Joshua and the sons of Israel struck down beyond the Jordan toward the west, from Baal-gad in the valley of Lebanon even as far as Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir; and Joshua gave it to the tribes of Israel as a possession according to their divisions," 
Joshua12:8 in the hill country and in the Shephelah and in the Arabah and on the slopes and in the wilderness and in the Negev; the Hittite, the Amorite and the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite and the Jebusite:" 
Joshua12:9 the king of Jericho, one; the king of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;" 
Joshua12:10 the king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one;" 
Joshua12:11 the king of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one;" 
Joshua12:12 the king of Eglon, one; the king of Gezer, one;" 
Joshua12:13 the king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one;" 
Joshua12:14 the king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one;" 
Joshua12:15 the king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one;" 
Joshua12:16 the king of Makkedah, one; the king of Bethel, one;" 
Joshua12:17 the king of Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one;" 
Joshua12:18 the king of Aphek, one; the king of Lasharon, one;" 
Joshua12:19 the king of Madon, one; the king of Hazor, one;" 
Joshua12:20 the king of Shimron-meron, one; the king of Achshaph, one;" 
Joshua12:21 the king of Taanach, one; the king of Megiddo, one;" 
Joshua12:22 the king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jokneam in Carmel, one;" 
Joshua12:23 the king of Dor in the heights of Dor, one; the king of Goiim in Gilgal, one;" 
Joshua12:24 the king of Tirzah, one: in all, thirty-one kings." 
Joshua13:1 Now Joshua was old, advanced in years, and Yahweh said to him, “You are old, advanced in years, and very much of the land remains to be possessed." 
Joshua13:2 This is the land that remains: all the regions of the Philistines and all those of the Geshurites; 
Joshua13:3 from the Shihor which is east of Egypt, even as far as the border of Ekron to the north (it is counted as Canaanite); the five lords of the Philistines: the Gazite, the Ashdodite, the Ashkelonite, the Gittite, the Ekronite; and the Avvite" 
Joshua13:4 to the south, all the land of the Canaanite, and Mearah that belongs to the Sidonians, as far as Aphek, to the border of the Amorite;" 
Joshua13:5 and the land of the Gebalite, and all of Lebanon, to the east toward the sunrise, from Baal-gad below Mount Hermon as far as Lebo-hamath." 
Joshua13:6 All the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon as far as Misrephoth-maim, all the Sidonians, I will dispossess them from before the sons of Israel; only allot it to Israel for an inheritance as I have commanded you." 
Joshua13:7 So now, apportion this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half-tribe of Manasseh.”" 
Joshua13:8 With the other half-tribe, the Reubenites and the Gadites received their inheritance which Moses gave them beyond the Jordan to the east, just as Moses the servant of Yahweh gave to them;" 
Joshua13:9 from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, with the city which is in the middle of the valley, and all the plain of Medeba, as far as Dibon;" 
Joshua13:10 and all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, as far as the border of the sons of Ammon;" 
Joshua13:11 and Gilead, and the territory of the Geshurites and Maacathites, and all Mount Hermon, and all Bashan as far as Salecah;" 
Joshua13:12 all the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei (he alone remained of the remnant of the Rephaim); for Moses struck them and dispossessed them." 
Joshua13:13 But the sons of Israel did not dispossess the Geshurites or the Maacathites; so Geshur and Maacath live among Israel until this day. 
Joshua13:14 Only to the tribe of Levi he did not give an inheritance; the offerings by fire to Yahweh, the God of Israel, are their inheritance, as He spoke to him." 
Joshua13:15 So Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of the sons of Reuben according to their families. 
Joshua13:16 And their territory was from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, with the city which is in the middle of the valley and all the plain by Medeba;" 
Joshua13:17 Heshbon, and all its cities which are on the plain: Dibon and Bamoth-baal and Beth-baal-meon," 
Joshua13:18 and Jahaz and Kedemoth and Mephaath," 
Joshua13:19 and Kiriathaim and Sibmah and Zereth-shahar on the hill of the valley," 
Joshua13:20 and Beth-peor and the slopes of Pisgah and Beth-jeshimoth," 
Joshua13:21 even all the cities of the plain and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites who reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses struck with the leaders of Midian, Evi and Rekem and Zur and Hur and Reba, the princes of Sihon, who lived in the land." 
Joshua13:22 The sons of Israel also killed Balaam the son of Beor, the diviner, with the sword among the rest of their slain." 
Joshua13:23 And the border of the sons of Reuben was the Jordan. This was the inheritance of the sons of Reuben according to their families, the cities and their villages." 
Joshua13:24 Moses also gave an inheritance to the tribe of Gad, to the sons of Gad, according to their families." 
Joshua13:25 And their territory was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the sons of Ammon, as far as Aroer which is before Rabbah;" 
Joshua13:26 and from Heshbon as far as Ramath-mizpeh and Betonim, and from Mahanaim as far as the border of Debir;" 
Joshua13:27 and in the valley, Beth-haram and Beth-nimrah and Succoth and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon, with the Jordan as a border, as far as the lower end of the Sea of Chinnereth beyond the Jordan to the east." 
Joshua13:28 This is the inheritance of the sons of Gad according to their families, the cities and their villages." 
Joshua13:29 Moses also gave an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh; and it was for the half-tribe of the sons of Manasseh according to their families. 
Joshua13:30 And their territory was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all of Havvoth-jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities;" 
Joshua13:31 also half of Gilead, with Ashtaroth and Edrei, the cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were for the sons of Machir the son of Manasseh, for half of the sons of Machir according to their families." 
Joshua13:32 These are the territories which Moses apportioned for an inheritance in the plains of Moab, beyond the Jordan at Jericho to the east." 
Joshua13:33 But to the tribe of Levi, Moses did not give an inheritance; Yahweh, the God of Israel, is their inheritance, as He had promised to them." 
Joshua14:1 Now these are the territories which the sons of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun and the heads of the households of the tribes of the sons of Israel apportioned to them for an inheritance," 
Joshua14:2 by the lot of their inheritance, as Yahweh commanded by the hand of Moses, for the nine tribes and the half-tribe." 
Joshua14:3 For Moses had given the inheritance of the two tribes and the half-tribe beyond the Jordan; but he did not give an inheritance to the Levites among them. 
Joshua14:4 For the sons of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim, and they did not give a portion to the Levites in the land, except cities to live in, with their pasture lands for their livestock and for their property." 
Joshua14:5 Thus the sons of Israel did just as Yahweh had commanded Moses, and they divided the land." 
Joshua14:6 Then the sons of Judah drew near to Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, “You know the word which Yahweh spoke to Moses the man of God concerning you and me in Kadesh-barnea." 
Joshua14:7 I was forty years old when Moses the servant of Yahweh sent me from Kadesh-barnea to spy out the land, and I brought word back to him as it was in my heart." 
Joshua14:8 Nevertheless, my brothers who went up with me made the heart of the people melt with fear; but I followed Yahweh my God fully." 
Joshua14:9 So Moses swore on that day, saying, ‘Surely the land on which your foot has trodden will be an inheritance to you and to your children forever because you have followed Yahweh my God fully.’" 
Joshua14:10 So now behold, Yahweh has let me live, just as He spoke, these forty-five years, from the time that Yahweh spoke this word to Moses, when Israel walked in the wilderness; so now behold, I am eighty-five years old today." 
Joshua14:11 I am still as strong today as I was in the day Moses sent me; as my strength was then, so my strength is now, for war and for going out and coming in." 
Joshua14:12 So now, give me this hill country about which Yahweh spoke on that day, for you heard on that day that Anakim were there, with great fortified cities; perhaps Yahweh will be with me, and I will dispossess them as Yahweh has spoken.”" 
Joshua14:13 So Joshua blessed him and gave Hebron to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for an inheritance. 
Joshua14:14 Therefore, Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite until this day because he fully followed Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Joshua14:15 Now the name of Hebron was formerly Kiriath-arba; for Arba was the greatest man among the Anakim. Then the land was quiet from war. 
Joshua15:1 Now the lot for the tribe of the sons of Judah according to their families reached the border of Edom, southward to the wilderness of Zin at the far end toward the south." 
Joshua15:2 And their south border was from the lower end of the Salt Sea, from the bay that turns to the south." 
Joshua15:3 Then it went out southward to the ascent of Akrabbim and passed on to Zin and went up by the south of Kadesh-barnea and continued to Hezron and went up to Addar and turned about to Karka. 
Joshua15:4 And it passed on to Azmon and went out to the brook of Egypt, and the border ended at the sea. This shall be your south border." 
Joshua15:5 And the east border was the Salt Sea, as far as the mouth of the Jordan. And the border of the north side was from the bay of the sea at the mouth of the Jordan." 
Joshua15:6 Then the border went up to Beth-hoglah and passed by on the north of Beth-arabah; and the border went up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben. 
Joshua15:7 Then the border went up to Debir from the valley of Achor and turned northward toward Gilgal which is opposite the ascent of Adummim, which is on the south of the valley; and the border continued to the waters of En-shemesh and it ended at En-rogel." 
Joshua15:8 Then the border went up the valley of Ben-hinnom to the slope of the Jebusite on the south (that is, Jerusalem); and the border went up to the top of the mountain which is before the valley of Hinnom to the west, which is at the end of the valley of Rephaim toward the north." 
Joshua15:9 From the top of the mountain the border curved to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah and proceeded to the cities of Mount Ephron; then the border curved to Baalah (that is, Kiriath-jearim)." 
Joshua15:10 Then the border turned about from Baalah westward to Mount Seir and continued to the slope of Mount Jearim on the north (that is, Chesalon) and went down to Beth-shemesh and continued through Timnah." 
Joshua15:11 Then the border went out to the side of Ekron northward. Then the border curved to Shikkeron and passed on to Mount Baalah and went out to Jabneel, and the border ended at the sea." 
Joshua15:12 And the west border was at the Great Sea, even its coastline. This is the border around the sons of Judah according to their families." 
Joshua15:13 Now he gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh a portion among the sons of Judah, according to the command of Yahweh to Joshua, namely, Kiriath-arba, Arba being the father of Anak (that is, Hebron)." 
Joshua15:14 And Caleb dispossessed from there the three sons of Anak: Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai, the children of Anak." 
Joshua15:15 Then he went up from there against the inhabitants of Debir; now the name of Debir formerly was Kiriath-sepher. 
Joshua15:16 And Caleb said, “The one who strikes down Kiriath-sepher and captures it, I will give him Achsah my daughter as a wife.”" 
Joshua15:17 And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, captured it; so he gave him Achsah his daughter as a wife." 
Joshua15:18 Now it happened that when she came to him, she enticed him to ask her father for a field. So she alighted from the donkey, and Caleb said to her, “What do you want?”" 
Joshua15:19 Then she said, “Give me a blessing; since you have given me the land of the Negev, give me also springs of water.” So he gave her the upper springs and the lower springs." 
Joshua15:20 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Judah according to their families. 
Joshua15:21 Now the cities at the far end of the tribe of the sons of Judah toward the border of Edom in the south were Kabzeel and Eder and Jagur," 
Joshua15:22 and Kinah and Dimonah and Adadah," 
Joshua15:23 and Kedesh and Hazor and Ithnan," 
Joshua15:24 Ziph and Telem and Bealoth," 
Joshua15:25 and Hazor-hadattah and Kerioth-hezron (that is, Hazor)," 
Joshua15:26 Amam and Shema and Moladah," 
Joshua15:27 and Hazar-gaddah and Heshmon and Beth-pelet," 
Joshua15:28 and Hazar-shual and Beersheba and Biziothiah," 
Joshua15:29 Baalah and Iim and Ezem," 
Joshua15:30 and Eltolad and Chesil and Hormah," 
Joshua15:31 and Ziklag and Madmannah and Sansannah," 
Joshua15:32 and Lebaoth and Shilhim and Ain and Rimmon; in all, twenty-nine cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:33 In the Shephelah: Eshtaol and Zorah and Ashnah," 
Joshua15:34 and Zanoah and En-gannim, Tappuah and Enam," 
Joshua15:35 Jarmuth and Adullam, Socoh and Azekah," 
Joshua15:36 and Shaaraim and Adithaim and Gederah and Gederothaim; fourteen cities with their villages. 
Joshua15:37 Zenan and Hadashah and Migdal-gad," 
Joshua15:38 and Dilean and Mizpeh and Joktheel," 
Joshua15:39 Lachish and Bozkath and Eglon," 
Joshua15:40 and Cabbon and Lahmas and Chitlish," 
Joshua15:41 and Gederoth, Beth-dagon and Naamah and Makkedah; sixteen cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:42 Libnah and Ether and Ashan," 
Joshua15:43 and Iphtah and Ashnah and Nezib," 
Joshua15:44 and Keilah and Achzib and Mareshah; nine cities with their villages. 
Joshua15:45 Ekron, with its towns and its villages;" 
Joshua15:46 from Ekron even to the sea, all that were by the side of Ashdod, with their villages." 
Joshua15:47 Ashdod, its towns and its villages; Gaza, its towns and its villages; as far as the brook of Egypt and the Great Sea, even its coastline." 
Joshua15:48 And in the hill country: Shamir and Jattir and Socoh," 
Joshua15:49 and Dannah and Kiriath-sannah (that is, Debir)," 
Joshua15:50 and Anab and Eshtemoh and Anim," 
Joshua15:51 and Goshen and Holon and Giloh; eleven cities with their villages. 
Joshua15:52 Arab and Dumah and Eshan," 
Joshua15:53 and Janum and Beth-tappuah and Aphekah," 
Joshua15:54 and Humtah and Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron) and Zior; nine cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:55 Maon, Carmel and Ziph and Juttah," 
Joshua15:56 and Jezreel and Jokdeam and Zanoah," 
Joshua15:57 Kain, Gibeah and Timnah; ten cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:58 Halhul, Beth-zur and Gedor," 
Joshua15:59 and Maarath and Beth-anoth and Eltekon; six cities with their villages. 
Joshua15:60 Kiriath-baal (that is, Kiriath-jearim) and Rabbah; two cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:61 In the wilderness: Beth-arabah, Middin and Secacah," 
Joshua15:62 and Nibshan and the City of Salt and Engedi; six cities with their villages. 
Joshua15:63 Now as for the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the sons of Judah could not dispossess them; so the Jebusites live with the sons of Judah at Jerusalem until this day." 
Joshua16:1 Then the lot for the sons of Joseph went out from the Jordan at Jericho to the waters of Jericho on the east into the wilderness, going up from Jericho through the hill country to Bethel." 
Joshua16:2 And it went out from Bethel to Luz and passed on to the border of the Archites at Ataroth. 
Joshua16:3 Then it went down westward to the territory of the Japhletites, as far as the territory of lower Beth-horon even to Gezer, and it ended at the sea." 
Joshua16:4 So the sons of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim, received their inheritance." 
Joshua16:5 Now this was the territory of the sons of Ephraim according to their families: the border of their inheritance eastward was Ataroth-addar, as far as upper Beth-horon." 
Joshua16:6 Then the border went westward at Michmethath on the north, and the border turned about eastward to Taanath-shiloh and passed on beyond it to the east of Janoah." 
Joshua16:7 And it went down from Janoah to Ataroth and to Naarah and reached Jericho and came out at the Jordan. 
Joshua16:8 From Tappuah the border continued westward to the brook of Kanah, and it ended at the sea. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim according to their families," 
Joshua16:9 together with the cities which were set apart for the sons of Ephraim in the midst of the inheritance of the sons of Manasseh, all the cities with their villages." 
Joshua16:10 But they did not dispossess the Canaanites who lived in Gezer, so the Canaanites live in the midst of Ephraim to this day, and they became forced laborers." 
Joshua17:1 And this was the lot for the tribe of Manasseh, for he was the firstborn of Joseph. To Machir the firstborn of Manasseh, the father of Gilead, were allotted Gilead and Bashan, because he was a man of war." 
Joshua17:2 So the lot was made for the rest of the sons of Manasseh according to their families: for the sons of Abiezer and for the sons of Helek and for the sons of Asriel and for the sons of Shechem and for the sons of Hepher and for the sons of Shemida; these were the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph, the males according to their families." 
Joshua17:3 However, Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons, only daughters; and these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah." 
Joshua17:4 And they came near before Eleazar the priest and before Joshua the son of Nun and before the leaders, saying, “Yahweh commanded Moses to give us an inheritance among our brothers.” So according to the word of Yahweh he gave them an inheritance among their father’s brothers." 
Joshua17:5 Thus there fell ten portions to Manasseh, besides the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is beyond the Jordan," 
Joshua17:6 because the daughters of Manasseh received an inheritance among his sons. And the land of Gilead belonged to the rest of the sons of Manasseh. 
Joshua17:7 And the border of Manasseh ran from Asher to Michmethath which was east of Shechem; then the border went southward to the inhabitants of En-tappuah. 
Joshua17:8 The land of Tappuah belonged to Manasseh, but Tappuah on the border of Manasseh belonged to the sons of Ephraim." 
Joshua17:9 And the border went down to the brook of Kanah, southward of the brook (these cities belonged to Ephraim among the cities of Manasseh), and the border of Manasseh was on the north side of the brook, and it ended at the sea." 
Joshua17:10 The south side belonged to Ephraim and the north side to Manasseh, and the sea was their border; and they reached to Asher on the north and to Issachar on the east." 
Joshua17:11 And in Issachar and in Asher, Manasseh had Beth-shean and its towns, and Ibleam and its towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of En-dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Taanach and its towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns, the third is Napheth." 
Joshua17:12 But the sons of Manasseh could not take possession of these cities because the Canaanites persisted in living in that land. 
Joshua17:13 Now it happened that when the sons of Israel became strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor, but they did not dispossess them completely." 
Joshua17:14 Then the sons of Joseph spoke to Joshua, saying, “Why have you given me only one lot and one portion for an inheritance, since I am a numerous people whom Yahweh has thus far blessed?”" 
Joshua17:15 And Joshua said to them, “If you are a numerous people, go up to the forest and clear a place for yourself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the Rephaim, since the hill country of Ephraim is too narrow for you.”" 
Joshua17:16 And the sons of Joseph said, “The hill country is not enough for us, and all the Canaanites who live in the valley land have chariots of iron, both those who are in Beth-shean and its towns and those who are in the valley of Jezreel.”" 
Joshua17:17 Then Joshua spoke to the house of Joseph, to Ephraim and Manasseh, saying, “You are a numerous people and have great power; you shall not have one lot only," 
Joshua17:18 but the hill country shall be yours. For though it is a forest, you shall clear it, and to its farthest borders it shall be yours; for you shall dispossess the Canaanites, even though they have chariots of iron and even though they are strong.”" 
Joshua18:1 Then the whole congregation of the sons of Israel assembled themselves at Shiloh and set up the tent of meeting there; and the land was subdued before them. 
Joshua18:2 And there remained among the sons of Israel seven tribes who had not divided their inheritance. 
Joshua18:3 So Joshua said to the sons of Israel, “How long will you put off entering to take possession of the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has given you?" 
Joshua18:4 Provide for yourselves three men from each tribe that I may send them, and that they may arise and walk through the land and write a description of it according to their inheritance; then they shall return to me." 
Joshua18:5 And they shall divide it into seven portions; Judah shall stay in its territory on the south, and the house of Joseph shall stay in their territory on the north." 
Joshua18:6 So you shall write a description of the land in seven divisions and bring the description here to me. I will cast lots for you here before Yahweh our God. 
Joshua18:7 For the Levites have no portion among you because the priesthood of Yahweh is their inheritance. Gad and Reuben and the half-tribe of Manasseh also have received their inheritance eastward beyond the Jordan, which Moses the servant of Yahweh gave them.”" 
Joshua18:8 Then the men arose and went, and Joshua commanded those who went to write the description of the land, saying, “Go and walk through the land and write a description of it, and return to me; then I will cast lots for you here before Yahweh in Shiloh.”" 
Joshua18:9 So the men went and passed through the land and wrote a description of it by cities in seven divisions in a book; and they came to Joshua to the camp at Shiloh. 
Joshua18:10 And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before Yahweh, and there Joshua divided the land to the sons of Israel according to their divisions." 
Joshua18:11 Now the lot of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin came up according to their families, and the territory of their lot lay between the sons of Judah and the sons of Joseph." 
Joshua18:12 And their border on the north side was from the Jordan; then the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north and went up through the hill country westward, and it ended at the wilderness of Beth-aven." 
Joshua18:13 From there the border passed on to Luz, to the side of Luz (that is, Bethel) southward; and the border went down to Ataroth-addar, near the hill which lies on the south of lower Beth-horon." 
Joshua18:14 Then the border curved from there and turned round on the west side southward, from the hill which lies before Beth-horon southward; and it ended at Kiriath-baal (that is, Kiriath-jearim), a city of the sons of Judah. This was the west side." 
Joshua18:15 Then the south side was from the edge of Kiriath-jearim, and the border went out westward and went out to the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah." 
Joshua18:16 Then the border went down to the edge of the hill which is in the valley of Ben-hinnom, which is in the valley of Rephaim northward; and it went down to the valley of Hinnom, to the slope of the Jebusite southward, and went down to En-rogel." 
Joshua18:17 Then it curved northward and went out to En-shemesh and went out to Geliloth, which is opposite the ascent of Adummim, and it went down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben." 
Joshua18:18 Then it continued to the side in front of the Arabah northward and went down to the Arabah. 
Joshua18:19 And the border passed on to the side of Beth-hoglah northward; and the border ended at the north bay of the Salt Sea, at the south end of the Jordan. This was the south border." 
Joshua18:20 Moreover, the Jordan was its border on the east side. This was the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin, according to their families and according to its borders all around." 
Joshua18:21 Now the cities of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho and Beth-hoglah and Emek-keziz," 
Joshua18:22 and Beth-arabah and Zemaraim and Bethel," 
Joshua18:23 and Avvim and Parah and Ophrah," 
Joshua18:24 and Chephar-ammoni and Ophni and Geba; twelve cities with their villages. 
Joshua18:25 Gibeon and Ramah and Beeroth," 
Joshua18:26 and Mizpeh and Chephirah and Mozah," 
Joshua18:27 and Rekem and Irpeel and Taralah," 
Joshua18:28 and Zelah, Haeleph and the Jebusite (that is, Jerusalem), Gibeah, Kiriath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin according to their families." 
Joshua19:1 Then the second lot came out for Simeon, for the tribe of the sons of Simeon according to their families, and their inheritance was in the midst of the inheritance of the sons of Judah." 
Joshua19:2 So they had as their inheritance Beersheba or Sheba and Moladah," 
Joshua19:3 and Hazar-shual and Balah and Ezem," 
Joshua19:4 and Eltolad and Bethul and Hormah," 
Joshua19:5 and Ziklag and Beth-marcaboth and Hazar-susah," 
Joshua19:6 and Beth-lebaoth and Sharuhen; thirteen cities with their villages; 
Joshua19:7 Ain, Rimmon and Ether and Ashan; four cities with their villages;" 
Joshua19:8 and all the villages which were around these cities as far as Baalath-beer, Ramah of the Negev. This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Simeon according to their families." 
Joshua19:9 The inheritance of the sons of Simeon was taken from the portion of the sons of Judah, for the share of the sons of Judah was too large for them; so the sons of Simeon received an inheritance in the midst of Judah’s inheritance." 
Joshua19:10 Now the third lot came up for the sons of Zebulun according to their families. And the territory of their inheritance was as far as Sarid. 
Joshua19:11 Then their border went up to the west and to Maralah; it then reached Dabbesheth and reached the brook that is before Jokneam. 
Joshua19:12 Then it turned from Sarid to the east toward the sunrise as far as the border of Chisloth-tabor, and it went out to Daberath and up to Japhia." 
Joshua19:13 From there it passed on to the east toward the sunrise to Gath-hepher, to Eth-kazin, and it went out to Rimmon which curves to Neah." 
Joshua19:14 And the border circled around it on the north to Hannathon, and it ended at the valley of Iphtahel." 
Joshua19:15 Included also were Kattah and Nahalal and Shimron and Idalah and Bethlehem; twelve cities with their villages. 
Joshua19:16 This was the inheritance of the sons of Zebulun according to their families, these cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:17 The fourth lot came out for Issachar, for the sons of Issachar according to their families." 
Joshua19:18 And their territory included Jezreel and Chesulloth and Shunem," 
Joshua19:19 and Hapharaim and Shion and Anaharath," 
Joshua19:20 and Rabbith and Kishion and Ebez," 
Joshua19:21 and Remeth and En-gannim and En-haddah and Beth-pazzez. 
Joshua19:22 And the border reached to Tabor and Shahazumah and Beth-shemesh, and their border ended at the Jordan; sixteen cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:23 This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Issachar according to their families, the cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:24 Now the fifth lot came out for the tribe of the sons of Asher according to their families. 
Joshua19:25 And their territory was Helkath and Hali and Beten and Achshaph," 
Joshua19:26 and Allammelech and Amad and Mishal; and it reached to Carmel on the west and to Shihor-libnath. 
Joshua19:27 Then it turned east toward the sunrise to Beth-dagon and reached to Zebulun and to the valley of Iphtahel northward to Beth-emek and Neiel; then it went out to the north to Cabul," 
Joshua19:28 and Ebron and Rehob and Hammon and Kanah, as far as Great Sidon." 
Joshua19:29 Then the border turned to Ramah and to the fortified city of Tyre; then the border turned to Hosah, and it ended at the sea by the region of Achzib." 
Joshua19:30 Included also were Ummah and Aphek and Rehob; twenty-two cities with their villages. 
Joshua19:31 This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Asher according to their families, these cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:32 The sixth lot came out for the sons of Naphtali, for the sons of Naphtali according to their families." 
Joshua19:33 And their border was from Heleph, from the oak in Zaanannim and Adami-nekeb and Jabneel, as far as Lakkum, and it ended at the Jordan." 
Joshua19:34 Then the border turned westward to Aznoth-tabor and went out from there to Hukkok; and it reached to Zebulun on the south and reached to Asher on the west and to Judah at the Jordan to the east toward the sunrise. 
Joshua19:35 Now the fortified cities were Ziddim, Zer and Hammath, Rakkath and Chinnereth," 
Joshua19:36 and Adamah and Ramah and Hazor," 
Joshua19:37 and Kedesh and Edrei and En-hazor," 
Joshua19:38 and Yiron and Migdal-el, Horem and Beth-anath and Beth-shemesh; nineteen cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:39 This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali according to their families, the cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:40 The seventh lot came out for the tribe of the sons of Dan according to their families. 
Joshua19:41 And the territory of their inheritance was Zorah and Eshtaol and Ir-shemesh," 
Joshua19:42 and Shaalabbin and Aijalon and Ithlah," 
Joshua19:43 and Elon and Timnah and Ekron," 
Joshua19:44 and Eltekeh and Gibbethon and Baalath," 
Joshua19:45 and Jehud and Bene-berak and Gath-rimmon," 
Joshua19:46 and Me-jarkon and Rakkon, with the territory over against Joppa." 
Joshua19:47 And the territory of the sons of Dan went out from them; for the sons of Dan went up and fought with Leshem and captured it. Then they struck it with the edge of the sword and possessed it and settled in it; and they called Leshem Dan after the name of Dan their father. 
Joshua19:48 This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Dan according to their families, these cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:49 So they finished apportioning the land for inheritance by its borders. Then the sons of Israel gave an inheritance in their midst to Joshua the son of Nun. 
Joshua19:50 In accordance with the command of Yahweh they gave him the city for which he asked, Timnath-serah in the hill country of Ephraim. So he built the city and settled in it." 
Joshua19:51 These are the inheritances which Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun and the heads of the households of the tribes of the sons of Israel distributed by lot in Shiloh before Yahweh at the doorway of the tent of meeting. So they finished dividing the land. 
Joshua20:1 Then Yahweh spoke to Joshua, saying," 
Joshua20:2 “Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘Designate the cities of refuge, of which I spoke to you by the hand of Moses," 
Joshua20:3 that the manslayer who strikes down any person unintentionally, without premeditation, may flee there, and they shall become for you as a refuge from the avenger of blood." 
Joshua20:4 And he shall flee to one of these cities and shall stand at the entrance of the gate of the city and speak his case in the hearing of the elders of that city; and they shall take him into the city to them and give him a place, so that he may live among them." 
Joshua20:5 Now if the avenger of blood pursues him, then they shall not surrender the manslayer into his hand because he struck his neighbor without premeditation and did not hate him beforehand." 
Joshua20:6 And he shall live in that city until he stands before the congregation for judgment, until the death of the one who is high priest in those days. Then the manslayer shall return and come to his own city and to his own house, to the city from which he fled.’”" 
Joshua20:7 So they set apart Kedesh in Galilee in the hill country of Naphtali and Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim and Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron) in the hill country of Judah." 
Joshua20:8 Now beyond the Jordan east of Jericho, they designated Bezer in the wilderness on the plain from the tribe of Reuben and Ramoth in Gilead from the tribe of Gad and Golan in Bashan from the tribe of Manasseh." 
Joshua20:9 These were the appointed cities for all the sons of Israel and for the sojourner who sojourns among them, that whoever strikes down any person unintentionally may flee there and not die by the hand of the avenger of blood until he stands before the congregation." 
Joshua21:1 Then the heads of households of the Levites came near to Eleazar the priest and to Joshua the son of Nun and to the heads of households of the tribes of the sons of Israel. 
Joshua21:2 And they spoke to them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, “Yahweh commanded by the hand of Moses to give us cities to live in, with their pasture lands for our cattle.”" 
Joshua21:3 So the sons of Israel gave the Levites from their inheritance these cities with their pasture lands, according to the command of Yahweh." 
Joshua21:4 Then the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites. And the sons of Aaron the priest, who were of the Levites, received thirteen cities by lot from the tribe of Judah and from the tribe of the Simeonites and from the tribe of Benjamin." 
Joshua21:5 Now the rest of the sons of Kohath received ten cities by lot from the families of the tribe of Ephraim and from the tribe of Dan and from the half-tribe of Manasseh. 
Joshua21:6 And the sons of Gershon received thirteen cities by lot from the families of the tribe of Issachar and from the tribe of Asher and from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan." 
Joshua21:7 The sons of Merari according to their families received twelve cities from the tribe of Reuben and from the tribe of Gad and from the tribe of Zebulun. 
Joshua21:8 So the sons of Israel gave by lot to the Levites these cities with their pasture lands, as Yahweh had commanded by the hand of Moses." 
Joshua21:9 They also gave from the tribe of the sons of Judah and from the tribe of the sons of Simeon these cities which are here mentioned by name; 
Joshua21:10 and they were for the sons of Aaron, one of the families of the Kohathites, of the sons of Levi, for the lot was theirs first." 
Joshua21:11 So they gave them Kiriath-arba (Arba being the father of Anak), that is, Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, with its pasture lands all around it." 
Joshua21:12 But the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh as his possession. 
Joshua21:13 Thus to the sons of Aaron the priest they gave Hebron, the city of refuge for the manslayer, with its pasture lands, Libnah also with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:14 Jattir with its pasture lands, Eshtemoa with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:15 Holon with its pasture lands, and Debir with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:16 and Ain with its pasture lands, and Juttah with its pasture lands, and Beth-shemesh with its pasture lands; nine cities from these two tribes." 
Joshua21:17 From the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with its pasture lands, Geba with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:18 Anathoth with its pasture lands and Almon with its pasture lands; four cities. 
Joshua21:19 All the cities of the sons of Aaron, the priests, were thirteen cities with their pasture lands." 
Joshua21:20 Then the cities from the tribe of Ephraim were allotted to the families of the sons of Kohath, the Levites, even to the rest of the sons of Kohath." 
Joshua21:21 And they gave them Shechem, the city of refuge for the manslayer, with its pasture lands, in the hill country of Ephraim, and Gezer with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:22 and Kibzaim with its pasture lands, and Beth-horon with its pasture lands; four cities." 
Joshua21:23 From the tribe of Dan, Elteke with its pasture lands, Gibbethon with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:24 Aijalon with its pasture lands, and Gath-rimmon with its pasture lands; four cities." 
Joshua21:25 From the half-tribe of Manasseh, they gave Taanach with its pasture lands and Gath-rimmon with its pasture lands; two cities." 
Joshua21:26 All the cities with their pasture lands for the families of the rest of the sons of Kohath were ten. 
Joshua21:27 Now to the sons of Gershon, one of the families of the Levites, from the half-tribe of Manasseh, they gave Golan in Bashan, the city of refuge for the manslayer, with its pasture lands, and Be-eshterah with its pasture lands; two cities." 
Joshua21:28 From the tribe of Issachar, they gave Kishion with its pasture lands, Daberath with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:29 Jarmuth with its pasture lands, En-gannim with its pasture lands; four cities." 
Joshua21:30 From the tribe of Asher, they gave Mishal with its pasture lands, Abdon with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:31 Helkath with its pasture lands and Rehob with its pasture lands; four cities. 
Joshua21:32 From the tribe of Naphtali, they gave Kedesh in Galilee, the city of refuge for the manslayer, with its pasture lands and Hammoth-dor with its pasture lands and Kartan with its pasture lands; three cities." 
Joshua21:33 All the cities of the Gershonites according to their families were thirteen cities with their pasture lands. 
Joshua21:34 Now to the families of the sons of Merari, the rest of the Levites, they gave from the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam with its pasture lands and Kartah with its pasture lands." 
Joshua21:35 Dimnah with its pasture lands, Nahalal with its pasture lands; four cities." 
Joshua21:36 From the tribe of Reuben, they gave Bezer with its pasture lands and Jahaz with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:37 Kedemoth with its pasture lands and Mephaath with its pasture lands; four cities. 
Joshua21:38 From the tribe of Gad, they gave Ramoth in Gilead, the city of refuge for the manslayer, with its pasture lands and Mahanaim with its pasture lands," 
Joshua21:39 Heshbon with its pasture lands, Jazer with its pasture lands; four cities in all." 
Joshua21:40 All these were the cities of the sons of Merari according to their families, the rest of the families of the Levites; and their lot was twelve cities." 
Joshua21:41 All the cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the sons of Israel were forty-eight cities with their pasture lands. 
Joshua21:42 These cities each had its surrounding pasture lands; thus it was with all these cities. 
Joshua21:43 So Yahweh gave Israel all the land which He had sworn to give to their fathers, and they possessed it and lived in it." 
Joshua21:44 And Yahweh gave them rest on every side, according to all that He had sworn to their fathers, and no one of all their enemies stood before them; Yahweh gave all their enemies into their hand." 
Joshua21:45 Not one promise of the good promises which Yahweh had promised to the house of Israel failed; all came to pass. 
Joshua22:1 Then Joshua summoned the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh," 
Joshua22:2 and said to them, “You have kept all that Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded you and have listened to my voice in all that I commanded you." 
Joshua22:3 You have not forsaken your brothers these many days to this day, but have kept the responsibility of the commandment of Yahweh your God." 
Joshua22:4 And now Yahweh your God has given rest to your brothers, as He spoke to them; so now turn and go to your tents, to the land of your possession, which Moses the servant of Yahweh gave you beyond the Jordan." 
Joshua22:5 Only keep yourselves very carefully to do the commandment and the law which Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded you, to love Yahweh your God and walk in all His ways and keep His commandments and cling to Him and serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul.”" 
Joshua22:6 Then Joshua blessed them and sent them away, and they went to their tents." 
Joshua22:7 Now to the one half-tribe of Manasseh Moses had given a possession in Bashan, but to the other half Joshua gave a possession among their brothers westward beyond the Jordan. So when Joshua sent them away to their tents, he blessed them," 
Joshua22:8 and spoke to them, saying, “Return to your tents with great riches and with very much livestock, with silver, gold, bronze, iron, and with very many clothes; divide the spoil of your enemies with your brothers.”" 
Joshua22:9 Then the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh returned home and departed from the sons of Israel at Shiloh which is in the land of Canaan, to go to the land of Gilead, to the land of their possession which they had possessed, according to the command of Yahweh by the hand of Moses." 
Joshua22:10 And they came to the region of the Jordan which is in the land of Canaan, and the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh built an altar there by the Jordan, a large altar in appearance." 
Joshua22:11 And the sons of Israel heard it said, “Behold, the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh have built an altar at the entrance of the land of Canaan, in the region of the Jordan, on the side belonging to the sons of Israel.”" 
Joshua22:12 Then the sons of Israel heard of it, and the whole congregation of the sons of Israel assembled themselves at Shiloh to go up against them in war." 
Joshua22:13 Then the sons of Israel sent to the sons of Reuben and to the sons of Gad and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, into the land of Gilead, Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest," 
Joshua22:14 and with him ten leaders, one leader for each father’s household from each of the tribes of Israel; and each one of them was the head of his father’s household among the thousands of Israel." 
Joshua22:15 So they came to the sons of Reuben and to the sons of Gad and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, to the land of Gilead, and they spoke with them saying," 
Joshua22:16 “Thus says the whole congregation of Yahweh, ‘What is this unfaithful act which you have committed against the God of Israel, turning away from following Yahweh this day, by building yourselves an altar, to rebel against Yahweh this day?" 
Joshua22:17 Is the iniquity of Peor too small a thing for us, from which we have not cleansed ourselves to this day, although there was a plague on the congregation of Yahweh?" 
Joshua22:18 Yet you are turning away this day from following Yahweh. Now it will be that, if you rebel against Yahweh today, He will be angry with the whole congregation of Israel tomorrow." 
Joshua22:19 If, however, the land of your possession is unclean, then cross into the land of the possession of Yahweh, where the tabernacle of Yahweh dwells, and take possession among us. But do not rebel against Yahweh, nor rebel against us by building an altar for yourselves, besides the altar of Yahweh our God." 
Joshua22:20 Did not Achan the son of Zerah act unfaithfully in the things devoted to destruction, and indignation fall on all the congregation of Israel? But he was not the only man to breathe his last in his iniquity.’”" 
Joshua22:21 Then the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh answered and spoke to the heads of the thousands of Israel. 
Joshua22:22 “The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, the Mighty One, God, Yahweh! He knows, and may Israel itself know. If it was in rebellion or if in an unfaithful act against Yahweh, do not save us this day!" 
Joshua22:23 If we have built for ourselves an altar to turn away from following Yahweh, or if to perform a burnt offering or grain offering on it, or if to offer sacrifices of peace offerings on it, may Yahweh Himself require it." 
Joshua22:24 But truly we have done this out of concern, for a reason, saying, ‘In time to come your sons may say to our sons, “What have you to do with Yahweh, the God of Israel?" 
Joshua22:25 And Yahweh has made the Jordan a border between us and you, you sons of Reuben and sons of Gad; you have no portion in Yahweh.” So your sons may make our sons stop fearing Yahweh.’" 
Joshua22:26 “Therefore we said, ‘Let us build an altar, not for burnt offering or for sacrifice;" 
Joshua22:27 rather it shall be a witness between us and you and between our generations after us, that we are to perform the service of Yahweh before Him with our burnt offerings and with our sacrifices and with our peace offerings, so that your sons will not say to our sons in time to come, “You have no portion in Yahweh.”’" 
Joshua22:28 Therefore we said, ‘It will also be that if they say this to us or to our generations in time to come, then we shall say, “See the copy of the altar of Yahweh which our fathers made, not for burnt offering or for sacrifice; rather it is a witness between us and you.”’" 
Joshua22:29 Far be it from us to rebel against Yahweh and turn away from following Yahweh this day, by building an altar for burnt offering, for grain offering or for sacrifice, besides the altar of Yahweh our God which is before His tabernacle.”" 
Joshua22:30 So Phinehas the priest and the leaders of the congregation, even the heads of the thousands of Israel who were with him, heard the words which the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the sons of Manasseh spoke. And it was good in their sight." 
Joshua22:31 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said to the sons of Reuben and to the sons of Gad and to the sons of Manasseh, “Today we know that Yahweh is in our midst because you have not committed this unfaithful act against Yahweh; so then you have delivered the sons of Israel from the hand of Yahweh.”" 
Joshua22:32 Then Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest and the leaders returned from the sons of Reuben and from the sons of Gad, from the land of Gilead to the land of Canaan, to the sons of Israel, and brought back word to them." 
Joshua22:33 And the word was good in the sight of the sons of Israel, and the sons of Israel blessed God; and they did not speak of going up against them in war to destroy the land in which the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad were living." 
Joshua22:34 And the sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad called the altar Witness; “For,” they said, “it is a witness between us that Yahweh is God.”" 
Joshua23:1 Now it happened after many days, after Yahweh had given rest to Israel from all their enemies on every side, and Joshua was old, advanced in years," 
Joshua23:2 that Joshua called for all Israel, for their elders and their heads and their judges and their officers, and said to them, “I am old, advanced in years." 
Joshua23:3 And you have seen all that Yahweh your God has done to all these nations because of you, for Yahweh your God is He who has been fighting for you." 
Joshua23:4 See, I have allotted to you these nations which remain as an inheritance for your tribes, with all the nations which I have cut off, from the Jordan even to the Great Sea toward the setting of the sun." 
Joshua23:5 And Yahweh your God, He will thrust them out from before you and dispossess them before you; and you will possess their land, just as Yahweh your God promised you." 
Joshua23:6 Be very strong, then, to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, so that you may not turn aside from it to the right hand or to the left," 
Joshua23:7 so that you will not go along with these nations, these which remain among you, and you will not mention the name of their gods, and you will not make anyone swear by them, and you will not serve them, and you will not bow down to them." 
Joshua23:8 But you are to cling to Yahweh your God, as you have done to this day." 
Joshua23:9 For Yahweh has dispossessed great and mighty nations from before you; and as for you, no man has stood before you to this day." 
Joshua23:10 One of your men will pursue one thousand, for Yahweh your God is He who fights for you, just as He promised you." 
Joshua23:11 So keep your souls very carefully to love Yahweh your God. 
Joshua23:12 For if you ever turn back and cling to the rest of these nations, these which remain among you, and intermarry with them, so that you go along with them and they with you," 
Joshua23:13 know with certainty that Yahweh your God will not continue to dispossess these nations from before you; but they will be a snare and a trap to you and a whip on your sides and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from off this good land which Yahweh your God has given you." 
Joshua23:14 “Now behold, today I am going the way of all the earth, and you know in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one word of all the good words which Yahweh your God spoke concerning you has failed; all have come to pass for you; not one word of them has failed." 
Joshua23:15 And it will be that just as all the good words which Yahweh your God spoke to you have come upon you, so Yahweh will bring upon you all the calamitous words, until He has destroyed you from off this good land which Yahweh your God has given you." 
Joshua23:16 When you trespass against the covenant of Yahweh your God, which He commanded you, and go and serve other gods and bow down to them, then the anger of Yahweh will burn against you, and you will perish quickly from off the good land which He has given you.”" 
Joshua24:1 Then Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem and called for the elders of Israel and for their heads and their judges and their officers; and they presented themselves before God. 
Joshua24:2 And Joshua said to all the people, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘From ancient times your fathers lived beyond the River, namely, Terah, the father of Abraham and the father of Nahor, and they served other gods." 
Joshua24:3 Then I took your father Abraham from beyond the River and led him through all the land of Canaan and multiplied his seed and gave him Isaac. 
Joshua24:4 To Isaac I gave Jacob and Esau, and to Esau I gave Mount Seir to possess it; but Jacob and his sons went down to Egypt." 
Joshua24:5 Then I sent Moses and Aaron, and I smote Egypt by what I did in its midst; and afterward I brought you out." 
Joshua24:6 And I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and you came to the sea; and Egypt pursued your fathers with chariots and horsemen to the Red Sea." 
Joshua24:7 Then they cried out to Yahweh; He put darkness between you and the Egyptians and brought the sea upon them and covered them; and your own eyes saw what I did in Egypt. And you lived in the wilderness for many days. 
Joshua24:8 Then I brought you into the land of the Amorites who lived beyond the Jordan, and they fought with you; and I gave them into your hand, and you took possession of their land, and I destroyed them before you." 
Joshua24:9 Then Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, arose and fought against Israel, and he sent and summoned Balaam the son of Beor to curse you." 
Joshua24:10 But I was not willing to listen to Balaam. So he blessed you repeatedly, and I delivered you from his hand." 
Joshua24:11 And you crossed the Jordan and came to Jericho; and the citizens of Jericho fought against you, and the Amorite and the Perizzite and the Canaanite and the Hittite and the Girgashite, the Hivite and the Jebusite. Thus I gave them into your hand." 
Joshua24:12 Then I sent the hornet before you, and it drove out the two kings of the Amorites from before you, but not by your sword or your bow." 
Joshua24:13 And I gave you a land on which you had not labored and cities which you had not built, and you have lived in them; you are eating of vineyards and olive groves which you did not plant.’" 
Joshua24:14 “So now, fear Yahweh and serve Him in integrity and truth; and put away the gods which your fathers served beyond the River and in Egypt, and serve Yahweh." 
Joshua24:15 If it is evil in your sight to serve Yahweh, choose for yourselves today whom you will serve: whether the gods which your fathers served which were beyond the River or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are living; but as for me and my house, we will serve Yahweh.”" 
Joshua24:16 And the people answered and said, “Far be it from us that we should forsake Yahweh to serve other gods;" 
Joshua24:17 for Yahweh our God is He who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt, from the house of slavery, and who did these great signs in our sight and kept us through all the way in which we went and among all the peoples through whose midst we passed." 
Joshua24:18 And Yahweh drove out from before us all the peoples, even the Amorites who lived in the land. We also will serve Yahweh, for He is our God.”" 
Joshua24:19 Then Joshua said to the people, “You will not be able to serve Yahweh, for He is a holy God. He is a jealous God; He will not forgive your transgression or your sins." 
Joshua24:20 If you forsake Yahweh and serve foreign gods, then He will turn and do you harm and consume you after He has done good to you.”" 
Joshua24:21 And the people said to Joshua, “No, but we will serve Yahweh.”" 
Joshua24:22 And Joshua said to the people, “You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen for yourselves Yahweh, to serve Him.” And they said, “We are witnesses.”" 
Joshua24:23 “So now, put away the foreign gods which are in your midst, and incline your hearts to Yahweh, the God of Israel.”" 
Joshua24:24 And the people said to Joshua, “We will serve Yahweh our God, and we will listen to His voice.”" 
Joshua24:25 So Joshua cut a covenant with the people that day and made for them a statute and a judgment in Shechem. 
Joshua24:26 And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God; and he took a large stone and set it up there under the oak that was by the sanctuary of Yahweh. 
Joshua24:27 And Joshua said to all the people, “Behold, this stone shall be for a witness against us, for it has heard all the words of Yahweh which He spoke to us; thus it shall be for a witness against you, lest you deny your God.”" 
Joshua24:28 Then Joshua dismissed the people, each to his inheritance." 
Joshua24:29 Now it happened that after these things, Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Yahweh, died, being 110 years old." 
Joshua24:30 And they buried him in the territory of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, which is in the hill country of Ephraim, on the north of Mount Gaash." 
Joshua24:31 And Israel served Yahweh all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders who survived Joshua, who knew all the work of Yahweh which He had done for Israel." 
Joshua24:32 Now they buried the bones of Joseph, which the sons of Israel brought up from Egypt, at Shechem, in the portion of the field which Jacob had bought from the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for one hundred qesitah; and they became the inheritance of Joseph’s sons." 
Joshua24:33 And Eleazar the son of Aaron died; and they buried him at Gibeah of Phinehas his son, which was given him in the hill country of Ephraim." 
Judges1:1 Now it happened after the death of Joshua that the sons of Israel asked of Yahweh, saying, “Who shall go up first for us against the Canaanites, to fight against them?”" 
Judges1:1 Now it happened after the death of Joshua that the sons of Israel asked of Yahweh, saying, “Who shall go up first for us against the Canaanites, to fight against them?”" 
Judges1:2 And Yahweh said, “Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.”" 
Judges1:3 Then Judah said to Simeon his brother, “Come up with me into the territory allotted me, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I in turn will go with you into the territory allotted you.” So Simeon went with him." 
Judges1:4 So Judah went up, and Yahweh gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands, and they struck down 10,000 men at Bezek." 
Judges1:5 Then they found Adoni-bezek in Bezek and fought against him, and they struck down the Canaanites and the Perizzites." 
Judges1:6 But Adoni-bezek fled; and they pursued him and seized him and cut off his thumbs and big toes. 
Judges1:7 And Adoni-bezek said, “Seventy kings with their thumbs and their big toes cut off used to gather up scraps under my table; as I have done, so God has repaid me.” So they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there." 
Judges1:8 Then the sons of Judah fought against Jerusalem and captured it and struck it with the edge of the sword and set the city on fire. 
Judges1:9 And afterward the sons of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites living in the hill country and in the Negev and in the Shephelah. 
Judges1:10 So Judah went against the Canaanites who lived in Hebron (now the name of Hebron formerly was Kiriath-arba); and they struck Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai. 
Judges1:11 Then from there he went against the inhabitants of Debir (now the name of Debir formerly was Kiriath-sepher). 
Judges1:12 And Caleb said, “The one who strikes Kiriath-sepher and captures it, I will even give him my daughter Achsah as a wife.”" 
Judges1:13 Then Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother, captured it; so he gave him his daughter Achsah as a wife." 
Judges1:14 Now it happened that when she came to him, she enticed him to ask her father for the field. Then she alighted from her donkey, and Caleb said to her, “What do you want?”" 
Judges1:15 And she said to him, “Give me a blessing, since you have given me the land of the Negev, so you shall give me also springs of water.” So Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs." 
Judges1:16 Now the sons of the Kenite, Moses’ father-in-law, went up from the city of palms with the sons of Judah, to the wilderness of Judah which is in the south of Arad; and they went and lived with the people." 
Judges1:17 Then Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they struck the Canaanites living in Zephath and devoted it to destruction. So the name of the city was called Hormah." 
Judges1:18 And Judah captured Gaza with its territory and Ashkelon with its territory and Ekron with its territory. 
Judges1:19 Now Yahweh was with Judah, and they took possession of the hill country; but they could not dispossess the inhabitants of the valley because they had iron chariots." 
Judges1:20 Then they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had promised; and he dispossessed from there the three sons of Anak." 
Judges1:21 But the sons of Benjamin did not dispossess the Jebusites who lived in Jerusalem; so the Jebusites have lived with the sons of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day. 
Judges1:22 Likewise the house of Joseph went up against Bethel, and Yahweh was with them." 
Judges1:23 And the house of Joseph spied out Bethel (now the name of the city was formerly Luz). 
Judges1:24 Then the spies saw a man coming out of the city, and they said to him, “Please show us the entrance to the city, and we will treat you with lovingkindness.”" 
Judges1:25 So he showed them the entrance to the city, and they struck the city with the edge of the sword, but they let the man and all his family go free." 
Judges1:26 So the man went into the land of the Hittites and built a city and named it Luz which is its name to this day. 
Judges1:27 But Manasseh did not take possession of Beth-shean and its towns or Taanach and its towns or the inhabitants of Dor and its towns or the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns or the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns; so the Canaanites persisted to live in that land. 
Judges1:28 And it happened when Israel became strong, that they put the Canaanites to forced labor, but they did not dispossess them completely." 
Judges1:29 Also Ephraim did not dispossess the Canaanites who were living in Gezer; so the Canaanites lived in Gezer among them. 
Judges1:30 Zebulun did not dispossess the inhabitants of Kitron or the inhabitants of Nahalol; so the Canaanites lived among them and became subject to forced labor. 
Judges1:31 Asher did not dispossess the inhabitants of Acco or the inhabitants of Sidon, or of Ahlab or of Achzib or of Helbah or of Aphik or of Rehob." 
Judges1:32 So the Asherites lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not dispossess them." 
Judges1:33 Naphtali did not dispossess the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh or the inhabitants of Beth-anath, but lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and Beth-anath became forced labor for them." 
Judges1:34 Then the Amorites pressed the sons of Dan into the hill country, for they did not allow them to come down to the valley;" 
Judges1:35 and the Amorites persisted in living in Mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim; but the hand of the house of Joseph became heavy, and they became forced labor." 
Judges1:36 Now the border of the Amorites ran from the ascent of Akrabbim, from Sela and upward." 
Judges2:1 Then the angel of Yahweh came up from Gilgal to Bochim. And he said, “I brought you up out of Egypt and led you into the land which I have sworn to your fathers; and I said, ‘I will never break My covenant with you," 
Judges2:2 and as for you, you shall cut no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; you shall tear down their altars.’ But you have not listened to My voice; what is this you have done?" 
Judges2:3 Therefore I also said, ‘I will not drive them out before you; but they will become as thorns in your sides, and their gods will become a snare to you.’”" 
Judges2:4 So it happened that when the angel of Yahweh spoke these words to all the sons of Israel, the people lifted up their voices and wept." 
Judges2:5 So they named that place Bochim; and there they sacrificed to Yahweh. 
Judges2:6 Then Joshua sent the people away, and the sons of Israel went each to his inheritance to possess the land." 
Judges2:6 Then Joshua sent the people away, and the sons of Israel went each to his inheritance to possess the land." 
Judges2:7 And the people served Yahweh all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders who survived Joshua, who saw all the great work of Yahweh which He had done for Israel." 
Judges2:7 And the people served Yahweh all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders who survived Joshua, who saw all the great work of Yahweh which He had done for Israel." 
Judges2:8 Then Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Yahweh, died at the age of 110." 
Judges2:8 Then Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Yahweh, died at the age of 110." 
Judges2:9 And they buried him in the territory of his inheritance in Timnath-heres, in the hill country of Ephraim, north of Mount Gaash." 
Judges2:10 And all that generation also were gathered to their fathers; and there arose another generation after them who did not know Yahweh or even the work which He had done for Israel. 
Judges2:11 Then the sons of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh and served the Baals," 
Judges2:12 and they forsook Yahweh, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods from among the gods of the peoples who were around them and bowed themselves down to them; thus they provoked Yahweh to anger." 
Judges2:13 So they forsook Yahweh and served Baal and the Ashtaroth. 
Judges2:14 And the anger of Yahweh burned against Israel, and He gave them into the hands of plunderers who plundered them; and He sold them into the hands of their enemies around them, so that they could no longer stand before their enemies." 
Judges2:15 Wherever they went, the hand of Yahweh was against them for evil, as Yahweh had spoken and as Yahweh had sworn to them, so that they were severely distressed." 
Judges2:16 Then Yahweh raised up judges who saved them from the hands of those who plundered them. 
Judges2:17 Yet they did not listen to their judges either, for they played the harlot after other gods and bowed themselves down to them. They turned aside quickly from the way in which their fathers had walked in obeying the commandments of Yahweh; they did not do as their fathers." 
Judges2:18 Now when Yahweh raised up judges for them, Yahweh was with the judge and saved them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for Yahweh was moved to pity by their groaning because of those who oppressed and suppressed them." 
Judges2:19 But it happened when the judge died, that they would turn back and act more corruptly than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them and bow down to them; they did not abandon their practices or their stubborn ways." 
Judges2:20 So the anger of Yahweh burned against Israel, and He said, “Because this nation has trespassed against My covenant which I commanded their fathers and has not listened to My voice," 
Judges2:21 I also will no longer dispossess before them any of the nations which Joshua left when he died," 
Judges2:21 I also will no longer dispossess before them any of the nations which Joshua left when he died," 
Judges2:22 in order to test Israel by them, whether they will keep the way of Yahweh to walk in it as their fathers did, or not.”" 
Judges2:23 So Yahweh allowed those nations to rest, not dispossessing them quickly; and He did not give them into the hand of Joshua." 
Judges2:23 So Yahweh allowed those nations to rest, not dispossessing them quickly; and He did not give them into the hand of Joshua." 
Judges3:1 Now these are the nations which Yahweh allowed to remain, to test Israel by them (that is, all who had not known any of the wars of Canaan;" 
Judges3:2 however, God tested them in order that the generations of the sons of Israel would know war, by learning war, especially those who had not known it formerly)." 
Judges3:3 These nations are: the five lords of the Philistines and all the Canaanites and the Sidonians and the Hivites who lived in Mount Lebanon, from Mount Baal-hermon as far as Lebo-hamath." 
Judges3:4 And they were for testing Israel, to know if they would obey the commandments of Yahweh, which He had commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses." 
Judges3:5 Now the sons of Israel lived among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites;" 
Judges3:6 and they took their daughters for themselves as wives and gave their own daughters to their sons and served their gods. 
Judges3:7 Thus the sons of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh and forgot Yahweh their God and served the Baals and the Asheroth. 
Judges3:8 Then the anger of Yahweh burned against Israel, so that He sold them into the hands of Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia; and the sons of Israel served Cushan-rishathaim eight years." 
Judges3:9 Then the sons of Israel cried to Yahweh, and Yahweh raised up a savior for the sons of Israel to save them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother." 
Judges3:10 And the Spirit of Yahweh came upon him, and he judged Israel. And he went out to war, and Yahweh gave Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand. So his hand was strong against Cushan-rishathaim." 
Judges3:11 Then the land was quiet for forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died. 
Judges3:12 Then the sons of Israel again did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh. So Yahweh strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel because they had done what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh. 
Judges3:13 And he gathered to himself the sons of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and struck Israel, and they possessed the city of the palm trees." 
Judges3:14 So the sons of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years. 
Judges3:15 Then the sons of Israel cried to Yahweh, and Yahweh raised up a savior for them, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a left-handed man. And the sons of Israel sent tribute by his hand to Eglon the king of Moab." 
Judges3:16 And Ehud made himself a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length, and he bound it on his right thigh under his cloak." 
Judges3:17 Then he brought the tribute near to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man. 
Judges3:18 And it happened when he had finished bringing the tribute near, that he sent away the people who had carried the tribute." 
Judges3:19 But he himself turned back from the graven images which were at Gilgal and said, “I have a secret message for you, O king.” And he said, “Keep silence.” And all who stood by him left him." 
Judges3:20 But Ehud came to him while he was sitting alone in his cool roof chamber. And Ehud said, “I have a message from God for you.” And he arose from his seat." 
Judges3:21 Then Ehud sent forth his left hand, took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly." 
Judges3:22 The handle also went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the blade, for he did not draw the sword out of his belly; and the refuse came out." 
Judges3:23 Then Ehud went out into the vestibule and shut the doors of the roof chamber behind him and locked them. 
Judges3:24 Now he went out, and his servants came in and looked, and behold, the doors of the roof chamber were locked; and they said, “He is surely relieving himself in the cool room.”" 
Judges3:25 Then they waited until they were ashamed; but behold, he did not open the doors of the roof chamber. Therefore they took the key and opened them, and behold, their master had fallen to the floor dead." 
Judges3:26 Now Ehud escaped while they were delaying, and he passed by the graven images and escaped to Seirah." 
Judges3:27 And it happened when he had arrived, that he blew the trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim; and the sons of Israel went down with him from the hill country, and he was in front of them." 
Judges3:28 Then he said to them, “Pursue them, for Yahweh has given your enemies the Moabites into your hands.” So they went down after him and captured the fords of the Jordan opposite Moab and did not allow anyone to cross." 
Judges3:29 And they struck down at that time about 10,000 Moabites, all robust and valiant men; and no one escaped." 
Judges3:30 So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land was quiet for eighty years. 
Judges3:31 Now after him was Shamgar the son of Anath. And he struck down 600 Philistines with an oxgoad; and he also saved Israel. 
Judges4:1 Then the sons of Israel again did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh. Now Ehud had died. 
Judges4:2 And Yahweh sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the commander of his army was Sisera, who lived in Harosheth-hagoyim." 
Judges4:3 Then the sons of Israel cried to Yahweh; for he had 900 iron chariots, and he oppressed the sons of Israel severely for twenty years." 
Judges4:4 Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, was judging Israel at that time." 
Judges4:5 And she used to sit under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim; and the sons of Israel came up to her for judgment. 
Judges4:6 Then she sent and summoned Barak the son of Abinoam from Kedesh-naphtali and said to him, “Has not Yahweh, the God of Israel, commanded, ‘Go and march to Mount Tabor, and take with you 10,000 men from the sons of Naphtali and from the sons of Zebulun?" 
Judges4:7 And I will draw out to you Sisera, the commander of Jabin’s army, with his chariots and his many troops to the river Kishon, and I will give him into your hand.’”" 
Judges4:8 Then Barak said to her, “If you will go with me, then I will go; but if you will not go with me, I will not go.”" 
Judges4:9 So she said, “I will surely go with you; nevertheless, the honor shall not be yours on the journey that you are about to take, for Yahweh will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman.” Then Deborah arose and went with Barak to Kedesh." 
Judges4:10 Then Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali together to Kedesh, and 10,000 men went up with him; Deborah also went up with him." 
Judges4:11 Now Heber the Kenite had separated himself from the Kenites, from the sons of Hobab the father-in-law of Moses, and had pitched his tent as far away as the oak in Zaanannim, which is near Kedesh." 
Judges4:12 Then they told Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam had gone up to Mount Tabor. 
Judges4:13 So Sisera called together all his chariots, 900 iron chariots, and all the people who were with him, from Harosheth-hagoyim to the river Kishon." 
Judges4:14 And Deborah said to Barak, “Arise! For this is the day in which Yahweh has given Sisera into your hand; has not Yahweh gone out before you?” So Barak went down from Mount Tabor with 10,000 men following him." 
Judges4:15 And Yahweh threw Sisera and all his chariots and all his camp into confusion with the edge of the sword before Barak; and Sisera came down from his chariot and fled away on foot. 
Judges4:16 But Barak pursued the chariots and all those in the camp as far as Harosheth-hagoyim, and all the camp of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword; not even one remained." 
Judges4:17 Now Sisera fled away on foot to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite, for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite." 
Judges4:18 And Jael went out to meet Sisera and said to him, “Turn aside, my master, turn aside to me! Do not be afraid.” And he turned aside to her into the tent, and she covered him with a rug." 
Judges4:19 Then he said to her, “Please give me a little water to drink, for I am thirsty.” So she opened a bottle of milk and gave him a drink; then she covered him." 
Judges4:20 And he said to her, “Stand in the doorway of the tent, and it shall be if anyone comes and asks of you and says, ‘Is there a man here?’ that you shall say, ‘No.’”" 
Judges4:21 Then Jael, Heber’s wife, took a tent peg and placed a hammer in her hand and went secretly to him and drove the peg into his temple, and it went through into the ground; for he was sound asleep and exhausted. So he died." 
Judges4:22 Now behold, Barak was pursuing Sisera, and Jael came out to meet him and said to him, “Come, and I will show you the man whom you are seeking.” And he entered with her, and behold, Sisera was lying dead with the tent peg in his temple." 
Judges4:23 So God subdued on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the sons of Israel. 
Judges4:24 And the hand of the sons of Israel went forth heavier and heavier against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had cut off Jabin the king of Canaan." 
Judges5:1 Then Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang on that day, saying," 
Judges5:2 “When the leaders led in Israel, When the people volunteered, Bless Yahweh!" 
Judges5:3 Hear, O kings; give ear, O rulers! As for me, to Yahweh, I will sing; I will sing praise to Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Judges5:4 O Yahweh, when You went out from Seir, When You marched from the field of Edom, The earth quaked, the heavens also dripped, Even the clouds dripped water." 
Judges5:5 The mountains flowed at the presence of Yahweh, This Sinai, at the presence of Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Judges5:6 “In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, In the days of Jael, the paths had ceased, So travelers went by roundabout paths." 
Judges5:7 The peasantry ceased; they ceased in Israel, Until I, Deborah, arose, Until I arose, a mother in Israel." 
Judges5:8 God chose new leaders; Then war was in the gates. Not a shield or a spear was seen Among forty thousand in Israel. 
Judges5:9 My heart goes out to the commanders of Israel, The volunteers among the people; Bless Yahweh!" 
Judges5:10 You who ride on white donkeys, You who sit on rich carpets, And you who travel on the road—muse aloud!" 
Judges5:11 At the sound of those who divide flocks among the watering places, There they shall commemorate the righteous deeds of Yahweh, The righteous deeds for His peasantry in Israel. Then the people of Yahweh went down to the gates." 
Judges5:12 “Awake, awake, Deborah; Awake, awake, utter a song! Arise, Barak, and take away your captives, O son of Abinoam." 
Judges5:13 Then survivors came down to the mighty ones; The people of Yahweh came down to me as warriors. 
Judges5:14 From Ephraim those whose root is in Amalek came down, Following you, Benjamin, with your peoples; From Machir commanders came down, And from Zebulun those who wield the staff of a scribe." 
Judges5:15 And the princes of Issachar were with Deborah; As was Issachar, so was Barak; Into the valley they rushed at his heels; Among the divisions of Reuben There was great persistence of the heart." 
Judges5:16 Why did you sit among the sheepfolds, To hear the whistling for the flocks? Among the divisions of Reuben There were great probings of the heart." 
Judges5:17 Gilead dwelt across the Jordan; And why did Dan stay in ships? Asher sat at the seashore, And dwelt by its landings." 
Judges5:18 Zebulun was a people who despised their lives even to death, And Naphtali also, on the high places of the field." 
Judges5:19 “The kings came and fought; Then fought the kings of Canaan At Taanach near the waters of Megiddo; They took no gain of silver. 
Judges5:20 The stars fought from heaven; From their courses they fought against Sisera. 
Judges5:21 The river of Kishon swept them away, The ancient river, the river Kishon. O my soul, march on with strength." 
Judges5:22 Then the horses’ hoofs beat From the dashing, the dashing of his valiant steeds." 
Judges5:23 ‘Curse Meroz,’ said the angel of Yahweh, ‘Utterly curse its inhabitants, Because they did not come to the help of Yahweh, To the help of Yahweh against the warriors.’" 
Judges5:24 “Most blessed of women is Jael, The wife of Heber the Kenite; Most blessed is she of women in the tent." 
Judges5:25 He asked for water, and she gave him milk; In a mighty bowl she brought him curds." 
Judges5:26 She sent forth her hand for the tent peg, And her right hand for the workmen’s hammer. Then she beat Sisera; she smashed his head, And she crushed and pierced his temple." 
Judges5:27 Between her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay; Between her feet he bowed, he fell; Where he bowed, there he fell violently devastated." 
Judges5:28 “Out of the window she looked and lamented, The mother of Sisera through the lattice, ‘Why does his chariot delay in coming? Why do the hoofbeats of his chariots tarry?’" 
Judges5:29 Her wise princesses would answer her, Indeed she repeats her words to herself," 
Judges5:30 ‘Are they not finding, are they not dividing the spoil? A maiden, two maidens for every mighty man; To Sisera a spoil of dyed work, A spoil of dyed work embroidered, Dyed work of double embroidery on the neck of the spoil?’" 
Judges5:31 Thus let all Your enemies perish, O Yahweh; But let those who love Him be like the rising of the sun in its might.” And the land was quiet for forty years." 
Judges6:1 Then the sons of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh; and Yahweh gave them into the hands of Midian seven years. 
Judges6:2 And the power of Midian prevailed against Israel. Because of Midian the sons of Israel made for themselves the dens which were in the mountains and the caves and the strongholds. 
Judges6:3 And it was when Israel had sown, that the Midianites would go up with the Amalekites and the sons of the east and go up against them." 
Judges6:4 So they would camp against them and ruin the produce of the earth as far as Gaza and leave no sustenance in Israel as well as no sheep, ox, or donkey." 
Judges6:5 For they would go up with their livestock and their tents; they would come in like locusts for number, both they and their camels were innumerable; and they came into the land to make it a ruin." 
Judges6:6 So Israel was brought very low because of Midian, and the sons of Israel cried out to Yahweh." 
Judges6:7 Now it happened when the sons of Israel cried out to Yahweh on account of Midian," 
Judges6:8 that Yahweh sent a prophet to the sons of Israel, and he said to them, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘It was I who brought you up from Egypt and brought you out from the house of slavery." 
Judges6:9 I delivered you from the hands of the Egyptians and from the hands of all your oppressors and drove them out before you and gave you their land," 
Judges6:10 and I said to you, “I am Yahweh your God; you shall not fear the gods of the Amorites in whose land you live. But you have not listened to My voice.”’”" 
Judges6:11 Then the angel of Yahweh came and sat under the oak that was in Ophrah, which belonged to Joash the Abiezrite as his son Gideon was beating out wheat in the wine press in order to preserve it from the Midianites." 
Judges6:12 And the angel of Yahweh appeared to him and said to him, “Yahweh is with you, O mighty man of valor.”" 
Judges6:13 Then Gideon said to him, “O my lord, if Yahweh is with us, why then has all this happened to us? And where are all His wondrous deeds which our fathers recounted to us, saying, ‘Did not Yahweh bring us up from Egypt?’ But now Yahweh has abandoned us and given us into the hand of Midian.”" 
Judges6:14 Then Yahweh turned to him and said, “Go in this strength of yours and save Israel from the hand of Midian. Have I not sent you?”" 
Judges6:15 But he said to Him, “O Lord, with what shall I save Israel? Behold, my clan is the least in Manasseh, and I am the youngest in my father’s house.”" 
Judges6:16 But Yahweh said to him, “Surely I will be with you, and you shall strike down Midian as one man.”" 
Judges6:17 So Gideon said to Him, “If now I have found favor in Your eyes, then do a sign for me that it is You who speak with me." 
Judges6:18 Please do not depart from here until I come back to You, and I bring out my offering and lay it before You.” And He said, “I will remain until you return.”" 
Judges6:19 So Gideon went in and prepared a young goat and unleavened bread from an ephah of flour; he put the meat in a basket and the broth in a pot and brought them out to him under the oak and presented them. 
Judges6:20 And the angel of God said to him, “Take the meat and the unleavened bread and lay them on this rock and pour out the broth.” And he did so." 
Judges6:21 Then the angel of Yahweh put out the end of the staff that was in his hand and touched the meat and the unleavened bread; and fire sprang up from the rock and consumed the meat and the unleavened bread. Then the angel of Yahweh went away from before his eyes. 
Judges6:22 And Gideon saw that he was the angel of Yahweh, so he said, “Alas, O Lord Yahweh! For now I have seen the angel of Yahweh face to face.”" 
Judges6:23 And Yahweh said to him, “Peace to you. Do not fear; you shall not die.”" 
Judges6:24 So Gideon built an altar there to Yahweh and named it Yahweh is Peace. To this day it is still in Ophrah of the Abiezrites. 
Judges6:25 Now it happened on the same night that Yahweh said to him, “Take your father’s bull and a second bull seven years old, and pull down the altar of Baal which belongs to your father, and cut down the Asherah that is beside it," 
Judges6:26 and build an altar to Yahweh your God on the top of this stronghold in an orderly manner, and take the second bull and offer a burnt offering with the wood of the Asherah which you shall cut down.”" 
Judges6:27 So Gideon took ten men of his servants and did as Yahweh had spoken to him; and now it happened that because he was too afraid of his father’s household and the men of the city to do it by day, he did it by night." 
Judges6:28 Then the men of the city arose early in the morning, and behold, the altar of Baal was torn down, and the Asherah which was beside it was cut down, and the second bull was offered on the altar which had been built." 
Judges6:29 And they said to one another, “Who did this thing?” And when they searched about and inquired, they said, “Gideon the son of Joash did this thing.”" 
Judges6:30 Then the men of the city said to Joash, “Bring out your son, that he may die, for he has torn down the altar of Baal, and indeed, he has cut down the Asherah which was beside it.”" 
Judges6:31 But Joash said to all who stood against him, “Will you contend for Baal, or will you save him? Whoever will contend for him shall be put to death by morning. If he is a god, let him contend for himself, because someone has torn down his altar.”" 
Judges6:32 Therefore on that day he named him Jerubbaal, that is to say, “Let Baal contend against him,” because he had torn down his altar." 
Judges6:33 Now all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the sons of the east assembled themselves; and they crossed over and camped in the valley of Jezreel. 
Judges6:34 But the Spirit of Yahweh clothed Gideon; and he blew a trumpet, and the Abiezrites were called together to follow him." 
Judges6:35 And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and they also were called together to follow him; and he sent messengers to Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they came up to meet them." 
Judges6:36 Then Gideon said to God, “If You will save Israel by my hand, as You have spoken," 
Judges6:37 behold, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing floor. If there is dew on the fleece only, and it is dry on all the ground, then I will know that You will save Israel by my hand, as You have spoken.”" 
Judges6:38 And it was so. Indeed he arose early the next morning and squeezed the fleece. And he drained the dew from the fleece, a bowl full of water." 
Judges6:39 Then Gideon said to God, “Do not let Your anger burn against me that I may speak once more; please let me make a test once more with the fleece; let it now be dry only on the fleece, and let there be dew on all the ground.”" 
Judges6:40 And God did so that night. So it was dry only on the fleece, but dew was on all the ground." 
Judges7:1 Then Jerubbaal (that is, Gideon) and all the people who were with him rose early and camped beside the spring of Harod; and the camp of Midian was on the north side of them by the hill of Moreh in the valley." 
Judges7:2 And Yahweh said to Gideon, “The people who are with you are too many for Me to give Midian into their hands, lest Israel honor themselves, saying, ‘My own hand has saved me.’" 
Judges7:3 So now, come, call out in the hearing of the people, saying, ‘Whoever is afraid and trembling, let him return and depart from Mount Gilead.’” So 22,000 people returned, but 10,000 remained." 
Judges7:4 Then Yahweh said to Gideon, “The people are still too many; bring them down to the water, and I will test them for you there. And it will be that he of whom I say to you, ‘This one shall go with you,’ he shall go with you; but everyone of whom I say to you, ‘This one shall not go with you,’ he shall not go.”" 
Judges7:5 So he brought the people down to the water. And Yahweh said to Gideon, “Everyone who laps the water with his tongue as a dog laps, you shall set him aside by himself, and so also everyone who kneels to drink.”" 
Judges7:6 Now the number of those who lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, was 300 men; but all the rest of the people kneeled to drink water." 
Judges7:7 And Yahweh said to Gideon, “I will save you with the 300 men who lapped and will give the Midianites into your hands; so let all the other people go, each man to his place.”" 
Judges7:8 So the 300 men took the people’s provisions and their trumpets into their hands. And Gideon sent all the other men of Israel, each to his tent, but retained the 300 men; and the camp of Midian was below him in the valley." 
Judges7:9 Now it happened the same night that Yahweh said to him, “Arise, go down against the camp, for I have given it into your hands." 
Judges7:10 But if you are afraid to go down, then both you and Purah your young man, go down to the camp," 
Judges7:11 and you will hear what they say; and afterward your hands will be strengthened, that you may go down against the camp.” So he went with Purah his young man down to the outskirts of the armed men that were in the camp." 
Judges7:12 Now the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the sons of the east were lying in the valley as numerous as locusts; and their camels were without number, as numerous as the sand on the seashore." 
Judges7:13 Then Gideon came, and behold, a man was recounting a dream to his friend. And he said, “Behold, I had a dream; a loaf of barley bread was tumbling into the camp of Midian, and it came to the tent and struck it so that it fell and turned it upside down so that the tent lay flat.”" 
Judges7:14 And his friend answered and said, “This is nothing less than the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel; God has given Midian and all the camp into his hand.”" 
Judges7:15 Now it happened that when Gideon heard the account of the dream and its interpretation, he bowed in worship. Then he returned to the camp of Israel and said, “Arise, for Yahweh has given the camp of Midian into your hands.”" 
Judges7:16 And he divided the 300 men into three companies, and he put trumpets and empty pitchers into the hands of all of them, with torches inside the pitchers." 
Judges7:17 Then he said to them, “Look at me and do likewise. And behold, I will come to the outskirts of the camp, and it will be that just as I do so you do likewise." 
Judges7:18 And I and all who are with me will blow the trumpet. Then you also shall blow the trumpets all around the camp and say, ‘For Yahweh and for Gideon.’”" 
Judges7:19 So Gideon and the hundred men who were with him came to the outskirts of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch, when they had just set up the watch; and they blew the trumpets and smashed the pitchers that were in their hands." 
Judges7:20 Then the three companies blew the trumpets and broke the pitchers, and they held the torches in their left hands and the trumpets in their right hands for blowing and called out, “A sword for Yahweh and for Gideon!”" 
Judges7:21 And each stood in his place around the camp. Then all of the camp ran, and they made a loud shout and fled." 
Judges7:22 So they blew 300 trumpets. And Yahweh set the sword of one against another even throughout the whole camp. And the camp fled as far as Beth-shittah toward Zererah, as far as the edge of Abel-meholah, by Tabbath." 
Judges7:23 And the men of Israel were summoned from Naphtali and Asher and all Manasseh, and they pursued Midian." 
Judges7:24 Now Gideon had sent messengers throughout all the hill country of Ephraim, saying, “Come down to meet Midian and capture the waters before them, as far as Beth-barah and the Jordan.” So all the men of Ephraim were summoned, and they captured the waters as far as Beth-barah and the Jordan." 
Judges7:25 Then they captured the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, and they killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and they killed Zeeb at the wine press of Zeeb. Then they pursued Midian and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon from across the Jordan." 
Judges8:1 Then the men of Ephraim said to him, “What is this thing you have done to us, not calling us when you went to fight against Midian?” And they strongly contended with him." 
Judges8:2 But he said to them, “What have I done now in comparison with you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the grape harvest of Abiezer?" 
Judges8:3 God has given the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, into your hands; and what was I able to do in comparison with you?” Then their anger toward him subsided when he spoke this word." 
Judges8:4 Then Gideon and the 300 men who were with him came to the Jordan and crossed over, weary yet pursuing." 
Judges8:5 And he said to the men of Succoth, “Please give loaves of bread to the people who are following me, for they are weary, and I am pursuing Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.”" 
Judges8:6 But the princes of Succoth said, “Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in your hands, that we should give bread to your army?”" 
Judges8:7 And Gideon said, “Thus, when Yahweh has given Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, then I will thrash your bodies with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.”" 
Judges8:8 So he went up from there to Penuel and spoke similarly to them; and the men of Penuel answered him just as the men of Succoth had answered. 
Judges8:9 So he spoke also to the men of Penuel, saying, “When I return safely, I will tear down this tower.”" 
Judges8:10 Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their camps with them, about 15,000 men, all who were left of the entire camp of the sons of the east; for the fallen were 120,000 men who drew the sword." 
Judges8:11 And Gideon went up by the way of those who dwelt in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah and struck the camp when the camp was unsuspecting. 
Judges8:12 Then Zebah and Zalmunna fled. And he pursued them and captured the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and he threw the whole camp into utter fright." 
Judges8:13 Then Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle by the ascent of Heres. 
Judges8:14 And he captured a youth from the men of Succoth and questioned him. So the youth wrote down for him the princes of Succoth and its elders, seventy-seven men." 
Judges8:15 Then he came to the men of Succoth and said, “Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, about whom you reproached me, saying, ‘Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in your hand, that we should give bread to your men who are weary?’”" 
Judges8:16 Then he took the elders of the city as well as thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth a lesson." 
Judges8:17 And he tore down the tower of Penuel and killed the men of the city. 
Judges8:18 Then he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, “What kind of men were they whom you killed at Tabor?” And they said, “They were like you, each one resembling the son of a king.”" 
Judges8:19 And he said, “They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As Yahweh lives, if only you had let them live, I would not kill you.”" 
Judges8:20 So he said to Jether his firstborn, “Rise, kill them.” But the youth did not draw his sword, for he was afraid because he was still a youth." 
Judges8:21 Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, “Rise up yourself, and smite us; for as the man, so is his might.” So Gideon arose and killed Zebah and Zalmunna and took the crescent ornaments which were on their camels’ necks." 
Judges8:22 Then the men of Israel said to Gideon, “Rule over us, both you and your son, also your son’s son, for you have saved us from the hand of Midian.”" 
Judges8:23 But Gideon said to them, “I will not rule over you, nor shall my son rule over you; Yahweh shall rule over you.”" 
Judges8:24 Yet Gideon said to them, “I would make one request of you, that each of you give me an earring from his spoil.” (For they had gold earrings because they were Ishmaelites.)" 
Judges8:25 And they said, “We will surely give them.” So they spread out a garment, and every one of them threw an earring there from his spoil." 
Judges8:26 And the weight of the gold earrings that he requested was 1,700 shekels of gold, besides the crescent ornaments and the pendants and the purple robes which were on the kings of Midian, and besides the neck bands that were on their camels’ necks." 
Judges8:27 Then Gideon made it into an ephod and placed it in his city, Ophrah, and all Israel played the harlot with it there, so that it became a snare to Gideon and his household." 
Judges8:28 So Midian was subdued before the sons of Israel, and they did not lift up their heads anymore. And the land was quiet for forty years in the days of Gideon." 
Judges8:29 Then Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and lived in his own house. 
Judges8:30 Now Gideon had seventy sons who were his direct descendants, for he had many wives." 
Judges8:31 And his concubine who was in Shechem also bore him a son, and he named him Abimelech." 
Judges8:32 Then Gideon the son of Joash died at a good old age and was buried in the tomb of his father Joash, in Ophrah of the Abiezrites." 
Judges8:33 Then it happened, as soon as Gideon was dead, that the sons of Israel turned back and played the harlot with the Baals and made Baal-berith their god." 
Judges8:34 Thus the sons of Israel did not remember Yahweh their God, who had delivered them from the hands of all their enemies on every side;" 
Judges8:35 nor did they show lovingkindness to the household of Jerubbaal (that is, Gideon) in accord with all the good that he had done to Israel." 
Judges9:1 And Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother’s relatives and spoke to them and to the whole family of the household of his mother’s father, saying," 
Judges9:2 “Speak, now, in the hearing of all the lords of Shechem, ‘Which is better for you, that seventy men, all the sons of Jerubbaal, rule over you, or that one man rule over you?’ Also, remember that I am your bone and your flesh.”" 
Judges9:3 And his mother’s relatives spoke all these words on his behalf in the hearing of all the lords of Shechem; and they were inclined to follow Abimelech, for they said, “He is our relative.”" 
Judges9:4 So they gave him seventy pieces of silver from the house of Baal-berith with which Abimelech hired worthless and reckless fellows, and they followed him." 
Judges9:5 Then he came to his father’s house at Ophrah and killed his brothers the sons of Jerubbaal, seventy men, on one stone. But Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left, for he hid himself." 
Judges9:6 Then all the lords of Shechem and all Beth-millo assembled together, and they went and made Abimelech king, by the oak of the pillar which was in Shechem." 
Judges9:7 Then they told Jotham, so he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim and lifted his voice and called out. Thus he said to them, “Listen to me, O lords of Shechem, that God may listen to you." 
Judges9:8 The trees surely went forth to anoint a king over them, and they said to the olive tree, ‘Reign over us!’" 
Judges9:9 But the olive tree said to them, ‘Shall I leave my fatness, with which God and men are honored, and go to wave over the trees?’" 
Judges9:10 Then the trees said to the fig tree, ‘You come, reign over us!’" 
Judges9:11 But the fig tree said to them, ‘Shall I leave my sweetness and my good produce and go to wave over the trees?’" 
Judges9:12 Then the trees said to the vine, ‘You come, reign over us!’" 
Judges9:13 But the vine said to them, ‘Shall I leave my new wine, which makes God and men glad, and go to wave over the trees?’" 
Judges9:14 Then all the trees said to the bramble, ‘You come, reign over us!’" 
Judges9:15 And the bramble said to the trees, ‘If in truth you are anointing me as king over you, come and take refuge in my shade; but if not, may fire come out from the bramble and consume the cedars of Lebanon.’" 
Judges9:16 “So now, if you have dealt in truth and integrity and made Abimelech king, and if you have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house and have dealt with him according to the bountiful works of his hands—" 
Judges9:17 for my father fought for you and risked his life and delivered you from the hand of Midian; 
Judges9:18 but you have risen against my father’s house today and have killed his sons, seventy men, on one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his maidservant, king over the lords of Shechem, because he is your relative—" 
Judges9:19 if then you have dealt in truth and integrity with Jerubbaal and his house this day, be glad in Abimelech, and let him also be glad in you." 
Judges9:20 But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and consume the lords of Shechem and Beth-millo; and let fire come out from the lords of Shechem and from Beth-millo and consume Abimelech.”" 
Judges9:21 Then Jotham escaped and fled and went to Beer and remained there because of Abimelech his brother. 
Judges9:22 And Abimelech governed over Israel three years. 
Judges9:23 Then God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the lords of Shechem; and the lords of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech," 
Judges9:24 so that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood might be laid on Abimelech their brother, who killed them, and on the lords of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to kill his brothers." 
Judges9:25 And the lords of Shechem set men in ambush against him on the tops of the mountains, and they robbed all who might pass by them along the road; and it was told to Abimelech." 
Judges9:26 Then Gaal the son of Ebed came with his relatives, and they crossed over into Shechem; and the lords of Shechem put their trust in him." 
Judges9:27 And they went out into the field and gathered the grapes of their vineyards and trod them and celebrated a festival; and they came into the house of their god and ate and drank and cursed Abimelech. 
Judges9:28 Then Gaal the son of Ebed said, “Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerubbaal, and is Zebul not his officer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem; but why should we serve him?" 
Judges9:29 Would, therefore, that this people were under my hand! Then I would remove Abimelech.” And he said to Abimelech, “Increase your army and come out.”" 
Judges9:30 Then Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, and his anger burned." 
Judges9:31 And he sent messengers to Abimelech deceitfully, saying, “Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his relatives have come to Shechem; and behold, they are stirring up the city against you." 
Judges9:32 So now, arise by night, you and the people who are with you, and lie in wait in the field." 
Judges9:33 And it will be in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, that you shall rise early and rush upon the city; and behold, he and the people who are with him will come out against you, and you shall do to them whatever your hand finds pleasing.”" 
Judges9:34 So Abimelech and all the people who were with him arose by night and lay in wait against Shechem in four companies. 
Judges9:35 And Gaal the son of Ebed went out and stood in the entrance of the city gate; and Abimelech and the people who were with him arose from the ambush. 
Judges9:36 Then Gaal saw the people and said to Zebul, “Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains.” But Zebul said to him, “You are seeing the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.”" 
Judges9:37 Yet Gaal spoke again and said, “Behold, people are coming down from the highest part of the land, and one company comes by the way of the soothsayers’ oak.”" 
Judges9:38 Then Zebul said to him, “Where is your boasting now with which you said, ‘Who is Abimelech that we should serve him?’ Is this not the people whom you rejected? Go out now and fight with them!”" 
Judges9:39 So Gaal went out before the lords of Shechem and fought with Abimelech. 
Judges9:40 And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled before him; and many fell slain up to the entrance of the gate." 
Judges9:41 Then Abimelech remained at Arumah, but Zebul drove out Gaal and his relatives so that they could not remain in Shechem." 
Judges9:42 Now it happened the next day, that the people went out to the field, and it was told to Abimelech." 
Judges9:43 So he took his people and divided them into three companies and lay in wait in the field; then he looked, and behold, the people were coming out from the city. So he arose against them and struck them down." 
Judges9:44 Then Abimelech and the company who was with him rushed forward and stood in the entrance of the city gate; but the other two companies rushed upon all who were in the field and struck them down. 
Judges9:45 So Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and he captured the city and killed the people who were in it; then he tore the city down and sowed it with salt." 
Judges9:46 Then all the lords of the tower of Shechem heard of it, and they entered the inner chamber of the temple of El-berith." 
Judges9:47 And it was told to Abimelech that all the lords of the tower of Shechem were gathered together. 
Judges9:48 So Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand and cut down a branch from the trees and lifted it and laid it on his shoulder. Then he said to the people who were with him, “What you have seen me do, hurry and do likewise.”" 
Judges9:49 And all the people also cut down each one his branch and followed Abimelech and put them on the inner chamber and set the inner chamber on fire over those inside, so that all the men of the tower of Shechem also died, about one thousand men and women." 
Judges9:50 Then Abimelech went to Thebez, and he camped against Thebez and captured it." 
Judges9:51 But there was a strong tower in the center of the city, and all the men and women with all the lords of the city fled there and shut themselves in; and they went up on the roof of the tower." 
Judges9:52 So Abimelech came to the tower and fought against it and approached the entrance of the tower to burn it with fire. 
Judges9:53 But a certain woman threw an upper millstone on Abimelech’s head, and she smashed his skull." 
Judges9:54 Then he called quickly to the young man, his armor bearer, and said to him, “Draw your sword and put me to death, lest they say of me, ‘A woman killed him.’” So the young man pierced him through, and he died." 
Judges9:55 Then the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, so each went away to his home." 
Judges9:56 Thus God returned the evil of Abimelech, which he had done to his father in killing his seventy brothers." 
Judges9:57 God also returned all the evil of the men of Shechem on their own heads, and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal came upon them." 
Judges10:1 Then after Abimelech died, Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, arose to save Israel; and he lived in Shamir in the hill country of Ephraim." 
Judges10:2 And he judged Israel twenty-three years. Then he died and was buried in Shamir. 
Judges10:3 After him, Jair the Gileadite arose and judged Israel twenty-two years." 
Judges10:4 And he had thirty sons who rode on thirty donkeys, and they had thirty cities in the land of Gilead that are called Havvoth-jair to this day." 
Judges10:5 And Jair died and was buried in Kamon. 
Judges10:6 Then the sons of Israel again did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh and served the Baals and the Ashtaroth, the gods of Aram, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the sons of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; thus they forsook Yahweh and did not serve Him." 
Judges10:7 So the anger of Yahweh burned against Israel, and He sold them into the hands of the Philistines and into the hands of the sons of Ammon." 
Judges10:8 And they shattered and smashed the sons of Israel that year; for eighteen years they did this to all the sons of Israel who were beyond the Jordan in Gilead in the land of the Amorites. 
Judges10:9 Then the sons of Ammon crossed the Jordan to fight also against Judah, Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim, so that Israel was greatly distressed." 
Judges10:10 And the sons of Israel cried out to Yahweh, saying, “We have sinned against You, for indeed, we have forsaken our God and served the Baals.”" 
Judges10:11 Then Yahweh said to the sons of Israel, “Did I not save you from the Egyptians, the Amorites, the sons of Ammon, and the Philistines?" 
Judges10:12 Also the Sidonians, the Amalekites, and the Maonites oppressed you. And you cried out to Me, and I saved you from their hand." 
Judges10:13 Yet you have forsaken Me and served other gods; therefore I will no longer save you. 
Judges10:14 Go and cry out to the gods which you have chosen; let them save you in the time of your distress.” 
Judges10:15 Then the sons of Israel said to Yahweh, “We have sinned, so You, do to us whatever seems good in Your eyes; only please deliver us this day.”" 
Judges10:16 So they removed the foreign gods from among them and served Yahweh; and He could bear the trouble of Israel no longer. 
Judges10:17 Then the sons of Ammon were summoned, and they camped in Gilead. And the sons of Israel gathered together and camped in Mizpah." 
Judges10:18 And the people, the princes of Gilead, said to one another, “Who is the man who will begin to fight against the sons of Ammon? He shall become head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.”" 
Judges11:1 Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, but he was the son of a harlot. And Gilead became the father of Jephthah." 
Judges11:2 And Gilead’s wife bore him sons; and when his wife’s sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out and said to him, “You shall not have an inheritance in our father’s house, for you are the son of another woman.”" 
Judges11:3 So Jephthah fled from his brothers and lived in the land of Tob; and worthless fellows gathered themselves about Jephthah, and they went out with him." 
Judges11:4 Now it happened after a while that the sons of Ammon fought against Israel. 
Judges11:5 So it happened that as the sons of Ammon fought against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah from the land of Tob;" 
Judges11:6 and they said to Jephthah, “Come and be our chief that we may fight against the sons of Ammon.”" 
Judges11:7 Then Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “Did you not hate me and drive me from my father’s house? So why have you come to me now when you are in distress?”" 
Judges11:8 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “For this reason we have now returned to you, that you may go with us and fight with the sons of Ammon and become head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.”" 
Judges11:9 So Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “If you take me back to fight against the sons of Ammon and Yahweh gives them up to me, will I become your head?”" 
Judges11:10 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “Yahweh is witness between us; surely we will do as you have said.”" 
Judges11:11 Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them; and Jephthah spoke all his words before Yahweh at Mizpah." 
Judges11:12 And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the sons of Ammon, saying, “What is between you and me, that you have come to me to fight against my land?”" 
Judges11:13 Then the king of the sons of Ammon said to the messengers of Jephthah, “Because Israel took away my land when they came up from Egypt, from the Arnon as far as the Jabbok and the Jordan; so now, return them peaceably.”" 
Judges11:14 But Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the sons of Ammon," 
Judges11:15 and they said to him, “Thus says Jephthah, ‘Israel did not take away the land of Moab nor the land of the sons of Ammon." 
Judges11:16 For when they came up from Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea and came to Kadesh," 
Judges11:17 then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, “Please let us pass through your land,” but the king of Edom would not listen. And they also sent to the king of Moab, but he was not willing. So Israel remained at Kadesh." 
Judges11:18 Then they went through the wilderness and around the land of Edom and the land of Moab and came to the east toward the sunrise of the land of Moab, and they camped beyond the Arnon; but they did not enter the territory of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab." 
Judges11:19 And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him, “Please let us pass through your land to our place.”" 
Judges11:20 But Sihon did not believe Israel to allow them to pass through his territory; so Sihon gathered all his people and camped in Jahaz and fought with Israel. 
Judges11:21 Then Yahweh, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they struck them down; so Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country." 
Judges11:22 So they possessed all the territory of the Amorites, from the Arnon as far as the Jabbok, and from the wilderness as far as the Jordan." 
Judges11:23 So now Yahweh, the God of Israel, dispossessed the Amorites from before His people Israel. Are you then to possess it?" 
Judges11:24 Do you not possess what Chemosh your god gives you to possess? So whatever Yahweh our God has taken possession of before us, we will possess it." 
Judges11:25 So now are you any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever strive with Israel, or did he ever fight against them?" 
Judges11:26 While Israel lived in Heshbon and its towns and in Aroer and its towns and in all the cities that are on the banks of the Arnon, 300 years, why did you not deliver them for yourself within that time?" 
Judges11:27 I therefore have not sinned against you, but you are doing me evil by making war against me; may Yahweh, the Judge, judge today between the sons of Israel and the sons of Ammon.’”" 
Judges11:28 But the king of the sons of Ammon did not listen to the words which Jephthah sent him. 
Judges11:29 Now the Spirit of Yahweh came upon Jephthah, so that he passed through Gilead and Manasseh; then he passed through Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he went on to the sons of Ammon." 
Judges11:30 Then Jephthah made a vow to Yahweh and said, “If You will indeed give the sons of Ammon into my hand," 
Judges11:31 then it shall be that whatever comes out of the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the sons of Ammon, it shall be Yahweh’s, and I will offer it up as a burnt offering.”" 
Judges11:32 So Jephthah crossed over to the sons of Ammon to fight against them; and Yahweh gave them into his hand. 
Judges11:33 And he struck them with a very great slaughter from Aroer to the entrance of Minnith, twenty cities, and as far as Abel-keramim. So the sons of Ammon were subdued before the sons of Israel." 
Judges11:34 Then Jephthah came to his house at Mizpah. And behold, his daughter was coming out to meet him with tambourines and with dancing. Now she was his one and only child; besides her he had no son or daughter." 
Judges11:35 So it happened that when he saw her, he tore his clothes and said, “Alas, my daughter! You have brought me very low, and you are among those who trouble me. But I have opened my mouth to vow to Yahweh, and I cannot take it back.”" 
Judges11:36 So she said to him, “My father, you have opened your mouth to vow to Yahweh; do to me according to what has gone out from your mouth, since Yahweh has avenged you of your enemies, the sons of Ammon.”" 
Judges11:37 Then she said to her father, “Let this thing be done for me; let me alone two months, that I may go to the mountains and weep because of my virginity, I and my companions.”" 
Judges11:38 Then he said, “Go.” So he sent her away for two months; and she went with her companions and wept on the mountains because of her virginity." 
Judges11:39 And it happened at the end of two months that she returned to her father, and he did to her according to the vow which he had made; and she did not know a man. Thus it became a custom in Israel," 
Judges11:40 that the daughters of Israel went yearly to commemorate the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year. 
Judges12:1 Then the men of Ephraim were summoned, and they crossed to Zaphon and said to Jephthah, “Why did you cross over to fight against the sons of Ammon, but did not call us to go with you? We will burn your house down on you.”" 
Judges12:2 Then Jephthah said to them, “I and my people were at great strife with the sons of Ammon. And I cried out to you, but you did not save me from their hand." 
Judges12:3 And I saw that you would not save me, so I took my life in my hands and crossed over against the sons of Ammon, and Yahweh gave them into my hand. Why then have you come up to me this day to fight against me?”" 
Judges12:4 Then Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead and fought Ephraim; and the men of Gilead struck Ephraim down because they said, “You are fugitives of Ephraim, O Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim and in the midst of Manasseh.”" 
Judges12:5 And the Gileadites captured the fords of the Jordan opposite Ephraim. And it happened when any of the fugitives of Ephraim said, “Let me cross over,” the men of Gilead would say to him, “Are you an Ephraimite?” If he said, “No,”" 
Judges12:6 then they would say to him, “Say now, ‘Shibboleth.’” But he said, “Sibboleth,” for he could not pronounce it correctly. Then they seized him and slaughtered him at the fords of the Jordan. Thus there fell at that time 42,000 of Ephraim." 
Judges12:7 And Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead. 
Judges12:8 Then Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel after him. 
Judges12:9 And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters whom he gave in marriage outside the family, and he brought in thirty daughters from outside for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years." 
Judges12:10 Then Ibzan died and was buried in Bethlehem. 
Judges12:11 Then Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel after him; and he judged Israel ten years. 
Judges12:12 And Elon the Zebulunite died and was buried at Aijalon in the land of Zebulun. 
Judges12:13 Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel after him. 
Judges12:14 And he had forty sons and thirty grandsons who rode on seventy donkeys; and he judged Israel eight years. 
Judges12:15 Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died and was buried at Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill country of the Amalekites." 
Judges13:1 Then the sons of Israel again did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh, so that Yahweh gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years." 
Judges13:2 And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren and had borne no children." 
Judges13:3 Then the angel of Yahweh appeared to the woman and said to her, “Behold now, you are barren and have borne no children, but you shall be with child and give birth to a son." 
Judges13:4 So now, be careful not to drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing." 
Judges13:5 For behold, you shall be with child and give birth to a son, and no razor shall come upon his head, for the boy shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb; and he shall begin to save Israel from the hand of the Philistines.”" 
Judges13:6 Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, “A man of God came to me, and his appearance was like the appearance of the angel of God, very awesome. And I did not ask him where he came from, nor did he tell me his name." 
Judges13:7 And he said to me, ‘Behold, you shall be with child and give birth to a son, so now you shall not drink wine or strong drink, and you shall not eat any unclean thing, for the boy shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb to the day of his death.’”" 
Judges13:8 Then Manoah entreated Yahweh and said, “O Lord, please let the man of God whom You have sent come to us again that he may instruct us what to do for the boy who is to be born.”" 
Judges13:9 And God listened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again to the woman as she was sitting in the field, but Manoah her husband was not with her." 
Judges13:10 So the woman ran quickly and told her husband, and she said to him, “Behold, the man who came the other day to me has appeared to me.”" 
Judges13:11 Then Manoah arose and followed his wife, and when he came to the man he said to him, “Are you the man who spoke to the woman?” And he said, “I am.”" 
Judges13:12 So Manoah said, “Now your words will come to pass. What shall be the judgment governing the boy and his work?”" 
Judges13:13 So the angel of Yahweh said to Manoah, “Let the woman be careful in all that I said." 
Judges13:14 She should not eat anything that comes from the vine, nor drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; let her keep all that I commanded.”" 
Judges13:15 Then Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh, “Please let us delay you so that we may prepare a young goat for you.”" 
Judges13:16 And the angel of Yahweh said to Manoah, “Though you delay me, I will not eat your food, but if you prepare a burnt offering, then offer it to Yahweh.” For Manoah did not know that he was the angel of Yahweh." 
Judges13:17 Then Manoah said to the angel of Yahweh, “What is your name, so that when your words come to pass, we may honor you?”" 
Judges13:18 But the angel of Yahweh said to him, “Why do you ask my name, seeing it is wonderful?”" 
Judges13:19 So Manoah took the young goat with the grain offering and offered it on the rock to Yahweh, and He did a wondrous thing while Manoah and his wife looked on." 
Judges13:20 Indeed, it happened when the flame went up from the altar toward heaven, that the angel of Yahweh went up in the flame of the altar. And Manoah and his wife saw this, so they fell on their faces to the ground." 
Judges13:21 Now the angel of Yahweh did not appear to Manoah or his wife again. Then Manoah knew that he was the angel of Yahweh. 
Judges13:22 So Manoah said to his wife, “We will surely die, for we have seen God.”" 
Judges13:23 But his wife said to him, “If Yahweh had desired to put us to death, He would not have accepted a burnt offering and a grain offering from our hands, nor would He have shown us all these things, nor would He have let us hear things like this at this time.”" 
Judges13:24 Then the woman gave birth to a son and named him Samson; and the child grew up, and Yahweh blessed him." 
Judges13:25 And the Spirit of Yahweh began to stir him in Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol." 
Judges14:1 Then Samson went down to Timnah and saw a woman in Timnah, one of the daughters of the Philistines." 
Judges14:2 So he came back up and told his father and mother, “I saw a woman in Timnah, one of the daughters of the Philistines; so now, take her for me as a wife.”" 
Judges14:3 But his father and his mother said to him, “Is there no woman among the daughters of your relatives, or among all our people, that you go to take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines?” But Samson said to his father, “Take her for me, for she is right in my eyes.”" 
Judges14:4 However, his father and mother did not know that it was of Yahweh, for He was seeking an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines were ruling over Israel." 
Judges14:5 Then Samson went down to Timnah with his father and mother, and they came as far as the vineyards of Timnah; and behold, a young lion came roaring toward him." 
Judges14:6 And the Spirit of Yahweh came upon him mightily, so that he tore it as one tears a young goat, though he had nothing in his hand; but he did not tell his father or mother what he had done." 
Judges14:7 So he went down and spoke to the woman; and she was right in the eyes of Samson. 
Judges14:8 Then he returned later to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; and behold, a swarm of bees and honey were in the body of the lion." 
Judges14:9 So he scraped the honey into his hands and went on, eating as he went. Then he went to his father and mother, and he gave some to them, and they ate it; but he did not tell them that he had scraped the honey out of the body of the lion." 
Judges14:10 Then his father went down to the woman; and Samson made a feast there, for the young men customarily did this." 
Judges14:11 Now it happened that when they saw him, they took thirty companions to be with him." 
Judges14:12 Then Samson said to them, “Let me now propound a riddle to you; if you will indeed tell it to me within the seven days of the feast and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen wraps and thirty changes of clothes." 
Judges14:13 But if you are unable to tell me, then you shall give me thirty linen wraps and thirty changes of clothes.” And they said to him, “Propound your riddle, that we may hear it.”" 
Judges14:14 So he said to them, “Out of the eater came something to eat, And out of the strong came something sweet.” But they could not tell the riddle in three days." 
Judges14:15 Then it happened on the fourth day that they said to Samson’s wife, “Entice your husband, so that he will tell us the riddle, or we will burn you and your father’s house with fire. Have you invited us to impoverish us? Is this not so?”" 
Judges14:16 So Samson’s wife wept before him and said, “You only hate me, and you do not love me; you have propounded a riddle to the sons of my people and have not told it to me.” And he said to her, “Behold, I have not told it to my father or mother; so should I tell you?”" 
Judges14:17 However she wept before him seven days while their feast lasted. And on the seventh day he told her because she pressed him so hard. She then told the riddle to the sons of her people. 
Judges14:18 So the men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, “What is sweeter than honey? And what is stronger than a lion?” And he said to them, “If you had not plowed with my heifer, You would not have found out my riddle.”" 
Judges14:19 Then the Spirit of Yahweh came upon him mightily, and he went down to Ashkelon and struck down thirty of them and took their spoil and gave the changes of clothes to those who told the riddle. And his anger burned, and he went up to his father’s house." 
Judges14:20 But Samson’s wife was given to his companion who had been his friend. 
Judges15:1 Now it happened that after a while, in the time of the wheat harvest, Samson visited his wife with a young goat and said, “I will go in to my wife in her room.” But her father did not let him enter." 
Judges15:2 And her father said, “I really thought that you hated her intensely; so I gave her to your companion. Is not her younger sister better than she? Please let her be yours instead.”" 
Judges15:3 Samson then said to them, “This time I shall be innocent in regard to the Philistines when I do them harm.”" 
Judges15:4 So Samson went and caught 300 foxes and took torches and turned the foxes tail to tail and put one torch in the middle between two tails. 
Judges15:5 Then he set fire to the torches and sent the foxes into the standing grain of the Philistines. So he caused both the shocks and the standing grain, along with the vineyards and groves, to burn." 
Judges15:6 Then the Philistines said, “Who did this?” And they said, “Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife and gave her to his companion.” So the Philistines came up and burned her and her father with fire." 
Judges15:7 Then Samson said to them, “If you act like this, then I will surely take revenge on you, but after that I will cease.”" 
Judges15:8 And he struck them ruthlessly with a great slaughter; and he went down and lived in the cleft of the rock of Etam. 
Judges15:9 Then the Philistines went up and camped in Judah and spread out in Lehi. 
Judges15:10 So the men of Judah said, “Why have you come up against us?” And they said, “We have come up to bind Samson in order to do to him as he did to us.”" 
Judges15:11 Then 3,000 men of Judah went down to the cleft of the rock of Etam and said to Samson, “Do you not know that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that you have done to us?” And he said to them, “As they did to me, so I have done to them.”" 
Judges15:12 And they said to him, “We have come down to bind you so that we may give you into the hand of the Philistines.” And Samson said to them, “Swear to me that you yourselves will not kill me.”" 
Judges15:13 So they said to him, “No, but we will bind you fast and give you into their hands; yet surely we will not put you to death.” Then they bound him with two new ropes and brought him up from the rock." 
Judges15:14 When he came to Lehi, the Philistines shouted as they met him. And the Spirit of Yahweh came upon him mightily so that the ropes that were on his arms were as flax that is burned with fire, and his bonds dropped from his hands." 
Judges15:15 And he found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, so he sent forth his hand and took it and struck down 1,000 men with it." 
Judges15:16 Then Samson said, “With the jawbone of a donkey, Heaps upon heaps, With the jawbone of a donkey I have struck down 1,000 men.”" 
Judges15:17 Now it happened that when he had finished speaking, he threw the jawbone from his hand; and he named that place Ramath-lehi." 
Judges15:18 Then he became very thirsty, and he called to Yahweh and said, “You have given this great salvation by the hand of Your slave, but now shall I die of thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?”" 
Judges15:19 So God split the hollow place that is in Lehi and water came out of it. Then he drank, and his spirit returned, and he revived. Therefore he named it En-hakkore, which is in Lehi to this day." 
Judges15:20 And he judged Israel twenty years in the days of the Philistines. 
Judges16:1 Then Samson went to Gaza and saw a harlot there and went in to her. 
Judges16:2 And it was told to the Gazites, saying, “Samson has come here,” so they surrounded the place and lay in wait for him all night at the gate of the city. And they kept silent all night, saying, “Let us wait until the morning light; then we will kill him.”" 
Judges16:3 But Samson lay until midnight, and at midnight he arose and seized the doors of the city gate and the two posts and pulled them up along with the bars; then he put them on his shoulders and brought them up to the top of the mountain which is opposite Hebron." 
Judges16:4 Now it happened afterwards that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, and her name was Delilah." 
Judges16:5 And the lords of the Philistines came up to her and said to her, “Entice him, and see where his great strength lies and how we may overpower him that we may bind him to afflict him. Then we will each give you 1,100 pieces of silver.”" 
Judges16:6 So Delilah said to Samson, “Please tell me where your great strength is and how you may be bound to afflict you.”" 
Judges16:7 Samson said to her, “If they bind me with seven fresh cords that have not been dried, then I will become weak and be like any other man.”" 
Judges16:8 Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh cords that had not been dried, and she bound him with them." 
Judges16:9 Now she had men lying in wait, sitting in an inner room. And she said to him, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” But he snapped the cords as a string of tinder snaps when it touches fire. So his strength was still not known." 
Judges16:10 Then Delilah said to Samson, “Behold, you have deceived me and told me lies; now please tell me how you may be bound.”" 
Judges16:11 And he said to her, “If they bind me tightly with new ropes which have not been used for work, then I will become weak and be like any other man.”" 
Judges16:12 So Delilah took new ropes and bound him with them and said to him, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” Now the men lying in wait were sitting in the inner room. But he snapped the ropes from his arms like a thread." 
Judges16:13 Then Delilah said to Samson, “Up to now you have deceived me and told me lies; tell me how you may be bound.” And he said to her, “If you weave the seven locks of my head with the web [and fasten it with a pin, then I will become weak and be like any other man.”" 
Judges16:14 So while he slept, Delilah took the seven locks of his hair and wove them into the web]. And she fastened it with the pin and said to him, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” But he awoke from his sleep and pulled out the pin of the loom and the web." 
Judges16:15 Then she said to him, “How can you say, ‘I love you,’ when your heart is not with me? You have deceived me these three times and have not told me where your great strength is.”" 
Judges16:16 Now it happened when she pressed him daily with her words and urged him, that his soul was annoyed to death." 
Judges16:17 So he told her all that was in his heart and said to her, “A razor has never come on my head, for I have been a Nazirite to God from my mother’s womb. If I am shaved, then my strength will leave me and I will become weak and be like every other man.”" 
Judges16:18 And Delilah saw that he had told her all that was in his heart, so she sent and called the lords of the Philistines, saying, “Come up once more, for he has told me all that is in his heart.” Then the lords of the Philistines came up to her and brought up the silver in their hands." 
Judges16:19 Then she made him sleep on her knees and called for a man and had him shave off the seven locks of his head. Then she began to afflict him, and his strength left him." 
Judges16:20 And she said, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” And he awoke from his sleep and said, “I will go out as at other times and shake myself free.” But he did not know that Yahweh had left him." 
Judges16:21 Then the Philistines seized him and gouged out his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza and bound him with bronze chains, and he was a grinder in the prison." 
Judges16:22 However, the hair of his head began to grow again after it was shaved off." 
Judges16:23 Now the lords of the Philistines assembled to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god and to be glad; and they said, “Our god has given Samson our enemy into our hands.”" 
Judges16:24 Then the people saw him and praised their god, for they said, “Our god has given our enemy into our hands, Even the destroyer of our country, Who has slain many of us.”" 
Judges16:25 So it happened when their hearts were merry, that they said, “Call for Samson, that he may amuse us.” So they called for Samson from the prison, and he entertained them. And they made him stand between the pillars." 
Judges16:26 Then Samson said to the boy who was holding his hand, “Let me feel the pillars on which the house is established, that I may lean against them.”" 
Judges16:27 Now the house was full of men and women, and all the lords of the Philistines were there. And about 3,000 men and women were on the roof looking on while Samson was amusing them." 
Judges16:28 Then Samson called to Yahweh and said, “O Lord Yahweh, please remember me and please strengthen me just this time, O God, that I may at once be avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.”" 
Judges16:29 Samson grasped the two middle pillars on which the house was established and supported himself against them, the one with his right hand and the other with his left." 
Judges16:30 And Samson said, “Let me die with the Philistines!” And he bent with his strength so that the house fell on the lords and all the people who were in it. So the dead whom he put to death by his death were more than those whom he put to death in his life." 
Judges16:31 Then his brothers and all his father’s household came down, carried him, brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol, in the tomb of Manoah his father. Thus he had judged Israel twenty years." 
Judges17:1 Now there was a man of the hill country of Ephraim whose name was Micah. 
Judges17:1 Now there was a man of the hill country of Ephraim whose name was Micah. 
Judges17:2 He said to his mother, “The 1,100 pieces of silver which were taken from you, about which you uttered a curse and spoke of it in my hearing, behold, the silver is with me; it was I who took it.” And his mother said, “Blessed be my son by Yahweh.”" 
Judges17:3 And he then returned the 1,100 pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother said, “I wholly set apart the silver from my hand as holy to Yahweh for my son to make a graven image and a molten image; so now I will return them to you.”" 
Judges17:4 So he returned the silver to his mother, and his mother took 200 pieces of silver and gave them to the silversmith. And he made them into a graven image and a molten image, and they were in the house of Micah." 
Judges17:4 So he returned the silver to his mother, and his mother took 200 pieces of silver and gave them to the silversmith. And he made them into a graven image and a molten image, and they were in the house of Micah." 
Judges17:5 And the man Micah had a shrine, and he made an ephod and household idols and ordained one of his sons, and he became his priest." 
Judges17:5 And the man Micah had a shrine, and he made an ephod and household idols and ordained one of his sons, and he became his priest." 
Judges17:6 In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did what was right in his own eyes. 
Judges17:7 And there was a young man from Bethlehem in Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite; and he was sojourning there." 
Judges17:8 Then the man went from the city, from Bethlehem in Judah, to sojourn wherever he might find a place; and as he made his journey, he came to the hill country of Ephraim to the house of Micah." 
Judges17:8 Then the man went from the city, from Bethlehem in Judah, to sojourn wherever he might find a place; and as he made his journey, he came to the hill country of Ephraim to the house of Micah." 
Judges17:9 And Micah said to him, “Where do you come from?” And he said to him, “I am a Levite from Bethlehem in Judah, and I am going to sojourn wherever I may find a place.”" 
Judges17:9 And Micah said to him, “Where do you come from?” And he said to him, “I am a Levite from Bethlehem in Judah, and I am going to sojourn wherever I may find a place.”" 
Judges17:10 Micah then said to him, “Remain with me and be a father and a priest to me, and I will give you ten pieces of silver a year, a suit of clothes, and your sustenance.” So the Levite went in." 
Judges17:10 Micah then said to him, “Remain with me and be a father and a priest to me, and I will give you ten pieces of silver a year, a suit of clothes, and your sustenance.” So the Levite went in." 
Judges17:11 And the Levite was willing to remain with the man, and the young man became to him like one of his sons." 
Judges17:12 So Micah ordained the Levite, and the young man became his priest and lived in the house of Micah." 
Judges17:12 So Micah ordained the Levite, and the young man became his priest and lived in the house of Micah." 
Judges17:13 Then Micah said, “Now I know that Yahweh will prosper me because I have a Levite as priest.”" 
Judges17:13 Then Micah said, “Now I know that Yahweh will prosper me because I have a Levite as priest.”" 
Judges18:1 In those days there was no king of Israel; and in those days the tribe of the Danites was seeking an inheritance for themselves to live in, for until that day the land among the tribes of Israel had not fallen to them as an inheritance." 
Judges18:2 So the sons of Dan sent from their family five men out of their whole number, men of valor from Zorah and Eshtaol, to spy out the land and to search it; and they said to them, “Go, search the land.” And they came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there." 
Judges18:2 So the sons of Dan sent from their family five men out of their whole number, men of valor from Zorah and Eshtaol, to spy out the land and to search it; and they said to them, “Go, search the land.” And they came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there." 
Judges18:3 They were near the house of Micah, and they recognized the voice of the young man, the Levite. So they turned aside there and said to him, “Who brought you here? And what are you doing in this place? And what do you have here?”" 
Judges18:3 They were near the house of Micah, and they recognized the voice of the young man, the Levite. So they turned aside there and said to him, “Who brought you here? And what are you doing in this place? And what do you have here?”" 
Judges18:4 And he said to them, “Thus and so has Micah done to me, and he has hired me, and I have become his priest.”" 
Judges18:4 And he said to them, “Thus and so has Micah done to me, and he has hired me, and I have become his priest.”" 
Judges18:5 And they said to him, “Ask of God, please, that we may know whether our way on which we are going will be successful.”" 
Judges18:6 So the priest said to them, “Go in peace; your way in which you are going is before Yahweh.”" 
Judges18:7 Then the five men went forth and came to Laish and saw the people who were in it living in security, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; for there was no oppressive conqueror dishonoring them for anything in the land, and they were far from the Sidonians and had no dealings with anyone." 
Judges18:8 So they came back to their brothers at Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brothers said to them, “What do you report?”" 
Judges18:9 And they said, “Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good. And will you be silent? Do not delay to go, to enter, to possess the land." 
Judges18:10 When you enter, you will come to a secure people and a spacious land; for God has given it into your hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that is on the earth.”" 
Judges18:11 Then from the family of the Danites, from Zorah and from Eshtaol, 600 men armed with weapons of war set out." 
Judges18:12 And they went up and camped at Kiriath-jearim in Judah. Therefore they called that place Mahaneh-dan to this day; behold, it is west of Kiriath-jearim." 
Judges18:13 Then they passed from there to the hill country of Ephraim and came to the house of Micah. 
Judges18:13 Then they passed from there to the hill country of Ephraim and came to the house of Micah. 
Judges18:14 And the five men who went to spy out the country of Laish answered and said to their relatives, “Do you know that there are in these houses an ephod and household idols and a graven image and a molten image? So now, know what you should do.”" 
Judges18:15 Then they turned aside there and came to the house of the young man, the Levite, to the house of Micah, and asked him of his welfare." 
Judges18:15 Then they turned aside there and came to the house of the young man, the Levite, to the house of Micah, and asked him of his welfare." 
Judges18:16 Now the 600 men armed with their weapons of war, who were of the sons of Dan, were standing by the entrance of the gate." 
Judges18:17 Then the five men who went to spy out the land went up and entered there, and took the graven image and the ephod and household idols and the molten image. And the priest was standing by the entrance of the gate with the 600 men armed with weapons of war." 
Judges18:18 Now these had entered into Micah’s house and took the graven image, the ephod and household idols and the molten image. Then the priest said to them, “What are you doing?”" 
Judges18:18 Now these had entered into Micah’s house and took the graven image, the ephod and household idols and the molten image. Then the priest said to them, “What are you doing?”" 
Judges18:19 And they said to him, “Be silent; put your hand over your mouth and come with us and be to us a father and a priest. Is it better for you to be a priest to the house of one man or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?”" 
Judges18:20 And the priest’s heart was merry, and he took the ephod and household idols and the graven image and entered among the people." 
Judges18:21 Then they turned and went away and put the little ones and the livestock and the valuables in front of them. 
Judges18:22 They had gone some distance from the house of Micah, and the men who were in the houses near Micah’s house were summoned and then overtook the sons of Dan." 
Judges18:22 They had gone some distance from the house of Micah, and the men who were in the houses near Micah’s house were summoned and then overtook the sons of Dan." 
Judges18:23 And they called out to the sons of Dan, who turned around and said to Micah, “What is the matter with you, that you were summoned together?”" 
Judges18:23 And they called out to the sons of Dan, who turned around and said to Micah, “What is the matter with you, that you were summoned together?”" 
Judges18:24 And he said, “You have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and have gone away, and what do I have besides? So how can you say to me, ‘What is the matter with you?’”" 
Judges18:25 Then the sons of Dan said to him, “Do not let your voice be heard among us, lest men, bitter of soul, fall upon you and you lose your life, with the lives of your household.”" 
Judges18:26 So the sons of Dan went on their way; and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back to his house." 
Judges18:26 So the sons of Dan went on their way; and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back to his house." 
Judges18:27 Now they took what Micah had made and the priest who had belonged to him, and they came to Laish, to a people quiet and secure, and struck them with the edge of the sword; and they burned the city with fire." 
Judges18:27 Now they took what Micah had made and the priest who had belonged to him, and they came to Laish, to a people quiet and secure, and struck them with the edge of the sword; and they burned the city with fire." 
Judges18:28 And there was no one to deliver them because it was far from Sidon and they had no dealings with anyone, and it was in the valley which is near Beth-rehob. And they rebuilt the city and lived in it." 
Judges18:29 And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father who was born in Israel; however, the name of the city formerly was Laish." 
Judges18:30 Then the sons of Dan set up for themselves the graven image; and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of the Danites until the day of the exile of the land." 
Judges18:31 So they set up for themselves Micah’s graven image which he had made, all the time that the house of God was at Shiloh." 
Judges18:31 So they set up for themselves Micah’s graven image which he had made, all the time that the house of God was at Shiloh." 
Judges19:1 Now it happened in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a certain Levite sojourning in the remote part of the hill country of Ephraim, who took a concubine for himself from Bethlehem in Judah." 
Judges19:2 But his concubine played the harlot against him, and she went away from him to her father’s house in Bethlehem in Judah and was there for a period of four months." 
Judges19:3 Then her husband arose and went after her to speak to her heart in order to bring her back, and his young man was with him as well as a pair of donkeys. So she brought him into her father’s house, and the girl’s father saw him and was glad to meet him." 
Judges19:4 And his father-in-law, the girl’s father, prevailed upon him; and he remained with him three days. So they ate and drank and spent the night there." 
Judges19:5 Now it happened on the fourth day that they got up early in the morning, and he arose to go; and the girl’s father said to his son-in-law, “Sustain yourself with a piece of bread, and afterward you may go.”" 
Judges19:6 So both of them sat down and ate and drank together; and the girl’s father said to the man, “Please be willing to spend the night, and let your heart be merry.”" 
Judges19:7 Then the man arose to go, but his father-in-law pressed him so that he turned back and spent the night there." 
Judges19:8 And on the fifth day he arose to go early in the morning, and the girl’s father said, “Please sustain yourself and wait until afternoon”; so both of them ate." 
Judges19:9 Then the man arose to go along with his concubine and young man, and his father-in-law, the girl’s father, said to him, “Behold now, the day has drawn to a close; please spend the night. Behold, the day is coming to an end; spend the night here that your heart may be merry. Then tomorrow you may arise early for your journey so that you may go to your tent.”" 
Judges19:10 But the man was not willing to spend the night, so he arose and went and came to a place before Jebus (that is, Jerusalem). And there were with him a pair of saddled donkeys; his concubine also was with him." 
Judges19:11 They were alongside of Jebus, and the day was almost gone. And the young man said to his master, “Come, please, and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusites and spend the night in it.”" 
Judges19:12 However, his master said to him, “We will not turn aside into the city of foreigners who are not of the sons of Israel; but we will pass on by until Gibeah.”" 
Judges19:13 Then he said to his young man, “Come and let us draw near to one of these places; and we will spend the night in Gibeah or Ramah.”" 
Judges19:14 So they passed along and went their way, and the sun set on them near Gibeah which belongs to Benjamin." 
Judges19:15 Then they turned aside there in order to enter and to spend the night in Gibeah. So they entered and sat down in the open square of the city. Now no one was taking them into his house to spend the night. 
Judges19:16 But behold, an old man was coming from his work, from the field, at evening. Now the man was from the hill country of Ephraim, and he was sojourning in Gibeah, but the men of the place were Benjamites." 
Judges19:17 And he lifted up his eyes and saw the traveler in the open square of the city; and the old man said, “Where are you going, and where do you come from?”" 
Judges19:18 And he said to him, “We are passing from Bethlehem in Judah to the remote part of the hill country of Ephraim. I am from there, and I went to Bethlehem in Judah. But I am now going to the house of Yahweh, and no man is taking me into his house." 
Judges19:19 Yet there is both straw and fodder for our donkeys, and also bread and wine for me, your maidservant, and the young man who is with your servants; there is no lack of anything.”" 
Judges19:20 Then the old man said, “Peace be to you. Only let me take care of all that you lack; however, do not spend the night in the open square.”" 
Judges19:21 So he brought him into his house and gave the donkeys fodder, and they washed their feet and ate and drank." 
Judges19:22 They were making their hearts merry, and behold, the men of the city, certain vile fellows, surrounded the house, pounding the door; and they spoke to the owner of the house, the old man, saying, “Bring out the man who came into your house that we may know him.”" 
Judges19:23 Then the man, the owner of the house, went out to them and said to them, “No, my brothers, please do not do evil. Since this man has come into my house, do not commit this disgraceful act." 
Judges19:24 Behold, my daughter who is a virgin, and his concubine—please let me bring them out that you may violate them and do to them whatever is good in your eyes. But do not commit such a disgraceful act against this man.”" 
Judges19:25 But the men were not willing to listen to him. So the man took hold of his concubine and brought her out to them; and they knew her and abused her all night until morning, and they let her go at the breaking of dawn." 
Judges19:26 As the day began to dawn, the woman came and fell down at the doorway of the man’s house where her master was, until full daylight." 
Judges19:27 Then her master arose in the morning and opened the doors of the house and went out to go on his way, and behold, the woman, his concubine, was lying at the doorway of the house with her hands on the threshold." 
Judges19:28 And he said to her, “Get up and let us go,” but there was no answer. Then he took her on the donkey; and the man arose and went to his home." 
Judges19:29 Then he entered his house and took a knife and took hold of his concubine and cut her in twelve pieces, limb by limb, and sent her throughout the territory of Israel." 
Judges19:30 And all who saw it said, “Nothing like this has ever happened or been seen from the day when the sons of Israel came up from the land of Egypt to this day. Consider it; take counsel and speak up!”" 
Judges20:1 Then all the sons of Israel from Dan to Beersheba, including the land of Gilead, came out, and the congregation assembled as one man to Yahweh at Mizpah." 
Judges20:2 And the chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, took their stand in the assembly of the people of God, 400,000 foot soldiers who draw the sword." 
Judges20:3 (Then the sons of Benjamin heard that the sons of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) And the sons of Israel said, “Tell us, how did this evil take place?”" 
Judges20:4 So the Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered, answered and said, “I came with my concubine to spend the night at Gibeah which belongs to Benjamin." 
Judges20:5 Then the men of Gibeah rose up against me and surrounded the house at night because of me. They intended to kill me; instead, they violated my concubine, and she died." 
Judges20:6 And I seized my concubine and cut her in pieces and sent her throughout the land of Israel’s inheritance; for they have committed a lewd and disgraceful act in Israel. 
Judges20:7 Behold, all you sons of Israel, give your advice and counsel here.”" 
Judges20:8 Then all the people arose as one man, saying, “Not one of us will go to his tent, nor will any of us turn aside to his house." 
Judges20:9 But now this is the thing which we will do to Gibeah; we will go up against it by lot. 
Judges20:10 And we will take 10 men out of 100 throughout the tribes of Israel, and 100 out of 1,000, and 1,000 out of 10,000 in order to take up provisions for the people, that when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, they may do to them according to all the disgraceful acts that they have done in Israel.”" 
Judges20:11 Thus all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, united as one man." 
Judges20:12 Then the tribes of Israel sent men through the entire tribe of Benjamin, saying, “What is this evil that has taken place among you?" 
Judges20:13 So now, give up the men, the vile fellows in Gibeah, that we may put them to death and purge this evil from Israel.” But the sons of Benjamin were not willing to listen to the voice of their brothers, the sons of Israel." 
Judges20:14 Then the sons of Benjamin gathered from the cities to Gibeah, to go out to battle against the sons of Israel." 
Judges20:15 And from the cities on that day the sons of Benjamin were numbered, 26,000 men who draw the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah who were numbered, 700 choice men." 
Judges20:16 Out of all these people 700 choice men were left-handed; each one could sling a stone at a hair and not miss. 
Judges20:17 And the men of Israel besides Benjamin were numbered, 400,000 men who draw the sword; all these were men of war." 
Judges20:18 Then the sons of Israel arose, went up to Bethel, and asked of God and said, “Who shall go up for us to begin the battle against the sons of Benjamin?” Then Yahweh said, “Judah shall begin it.”" 
Judges20:19 So the sons of Israel arose in the morning and camped against Gibeah. 
Judges20:20 And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin, and the men of Israel arranged themselves for battle against them at Gibeah." 
Judges20:21 Then the sons of Benjamin came out of Gibeah and destroyed to the ground on that day 22,000 men of Israel." 
Judges20:22 But the people, the men of Israel, strengthened themselves and arranged themselves for battle again in the place where they had arranged themselves the first day." 
Judges20:23 And the sons of Israel went up and wept before Yahweh until evening and asked of Yahweh, saying, “Shall we again approach for battle against the sons of my brother Benjamin?” And Yahweh said, “Go up against him.”" 
Judges20:24 Then the sons of Israel drew near to the sons of Benjamin the second day. 
Judges20:25 And Benjamin went out to meet them from Gibeah the second day and destroyed to the ground again 18,000 men of the sons of Israel; all these drew the sword." 
Judges20:26 Then all the sons of Israel and all the people went up and came to Bethel and wept; thus they remained there before Yahweh and fasted that day until evening. And they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before Yahweh. 
Judges20:27 Then the sons of Israel asked of Yahweh (now the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days," 
Judges20:28 and Phinehas the son of Eleazar, Aaron’s son, stood before it to minister in those days), saying, “Shall I yet again go out to battle against the sons of my brother Benjamin, or shall I cease?” And Yahweh said, “Go up, for tomorrow I will give them into your hand.”" 
Judges20:29 So Israel set men in ambush around Gibeah. 
Judges20:30 And the sons of Israel went up against the sons of Benjamin on the third day and arrayed themselves against Gibeah as at other times. 
Judges20:31 So the sons of Benjamin went out to meet the people and were drawn away from the city, and they began to strike and slay some of the people as at other times, on the highways, one of which goes up to Bethel and the other to Gibeah, and in the field, about thirty men of Israel." 
Judges20:32 The sons of Benjamin said, “They are defeated before us, as at the first.” But the sons of Israel said, “Let us flee that we may draw them away from the city to the highways.”" 
Judges20:33 Then all the men of Israel arose from their place and arrayed themselves at Baal-tamar; and the men of Israel in ambush burst forth of their place, even out of Maareh-geba." 
Judges20:34 Then 10,000 choice men from all Israel came against Gibeah, and the battle became heavy; but Benjamin did not know that calamity was about to reach them." 
Judges20:35 Then Yahweh defeated Benjamin before Israel, so that the sons of Israel destroyed 25,100 men of Benjamin that day, all who drew the sword." 
Judges20:36 So the sons of Benjamin saw that they were defeated. Now the men of Israel had given ground to Benjamin because they relied on the men in ambush whom they had set against Gibeah. 
Judges20:37 So the men in ambush hurried and rushed against Gibeah. Then the men in ambush deployed and struck all the city with the edge of the sword. 
Judges20:38 Now the appointed sign between the men of Israel and the men in ambush was that they would make a great cloud of smoke rise from the city. 
Judges20:39 So the men of Israel had turned around in the battle, and Benjamin had begun to strike and slay about thirty men of Israel, for they said, “Surely they are defeated before us, as in the first battle.”" 
Judges20:40 But the cloud began to rise from the city in a column of smoke, and Benjamin turned behind them; and behold, the whole city was going up in smoke to heaven." 
Judges20:41 Then the men of Israel turned around again, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed; for they saw that calamity had reached them." 
Judges20:42 Therefore, they turned their backs before the men of Israel toward the direction of the wilderness, but the battle overtook them, and those who came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst of them." 
Judges20:43 They surrounded Benjamin, pursued them without rest, and trod them down opposite Gibeah to the east toward the sunrise." 
Judges20:44 Thus 18,000 men of Benjamin fell; all these were valiant men." 
Judges20:45 And the rest turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, but they caught 5,000 of them on the highways and overtook them at Gidom and struck down 2,000 of them." 
Judges20:46 So all of Benjamin who fell that day were 25,000 men who drew the sword; all these were valiant men." 
Judges20:47 But 600 men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and they remained at the rock of Rimmon four months." 
Judges20:48 Now the men of Israel returned to the sons of Benjamin and struck them with the edge of the sword, both the entire city with the cattle and all that they found; they also set on fire all the cities which they found." 
Judges21:1 Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, “None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin as a wife.”" 
Judges21:2 So the people came to Bethel and sat there before God until evening and lifted up their voices and wept bitterly. 
Judges21:3 And they said, “Why, O Yahweh, God of Israel, has this come about in Israel, so that one tribe should be missing today from Israel?”" 
Judges21:4 Now it happened the next day that the people arose early and built an altar there and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. 
Judges21:5 Then the sons of Israel said, “Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who did not come up in the assembly to Yahweh?” For they had taken a great oath concerning him who did not come up to Yahweh at Mizpah, saying, “He shall surely be put to death.”" 
Judges21:6 And the sons of Israel were sorry for their brother Benjamin and said, “One tribe is cut off from Israel today." 
Judges21:7 What shall we do for wives for those who are left? But we have sworn by Yahweh not to give them any of our daughters in marriage.” 
Judges21:8 So they said, “What one is there of the tribes of Israel who did not come up to Yahweh at Mizpah?” And behold, no one had come to the camp from Jabesh-gilead to the assembly." 
Judges21:9 Indeed the people were numbered, but behold, not one of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead was there." 
Judges21:10 And the congregation sent 12,000 of the men of valor there and commanded them, saying, “Go and strike the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the little ones." 
Judges21:11 Now this is the thing that you shall do: you shall devote to destruction every man and every woman who has known, that is lain with, a man.”" 
Judges21:12 And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead 400 young virgins who had not known a man by lying with him; and they brought them to the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan." 
Judges21:13 Then the whole congregation sent word and spoke to the sons of Benjamin who were at the rock of Rimmon and called out peace to them. 
Judges21:14 Then Benjamin returned at that time, and they gave them the women whom they had kept alive from the women of Jabesh-gilead; yet they did not find enough for them." 
Judges21:15 And the people were sorry for Benjamin because Yahweh had made a breach in the tribes of Israel. 
Judges21:16 Then the elders of the congregation said, “What shall we do for wives for those who are left, since the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?”" 
Judges21:17 And they said, “There must be a possession for the survivors of Benjamin, so that a tribe will not be blotted out from Israel." 
Judges21:18 But we cannot give them wives of our daughters.” For the sons of Israel had sworn, saying, “Cursed is he who gives a wife to Benjamin.”" 
Judges21:19 So they said, “Behold, there is a feast of Yahweh from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goes up from Bethel to Shechem, and on the south side of Lebonah.”" 
Judges21:20 And they commanded the sons of Benjamin, saying, “Go and lie in wait in the vineyards," 
Judges21:21 and watch; and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to take part in the dances, then you shall come out of the vineyards, and each of you shall catch his wife from the daughters of Shiloh and go to the land of Benjamin." 
Judges21:22 And it will be when their fathers or their brothers come to contend with us, that we shall say to them, ‘Be gracious to us concerning them because we did not take for each man of Benjamin a wife in the battle, and you did not give your daughters to them; otherwise you would now be guilty.’”" 
Judges21:23 And the sons of Benjamin did so and carried away wives according to their number from those who danced, whom they stole away. And they went and returned to their inheritance and rebuilt the cities and lived in them." 
Judges21:24 Then the sons of Israel went away from there at that time, every man to his tribe and family, and each one of them went out from there to his inheritance." 
Judges21:25 In those days there was no king in Israel; everyone did what was right in his own eyes. 
Ruth1:1 Now it happened in the days when the judges judged, that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem in Judah went to sojourn in the fields of Moab with his wife and his two sons." 
Ruth1:2 The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife, Naomi; and the names of his two sons were Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites of Bethlehem in Judah. Now they came to the fields of Moab and remained there." 
Ruth1:3 Then Elimelech, Naomi’s husband, died; and she was left with her two sons." 
Ruth1:4 They took for themselves Moabite women as wives; the name of the one was Orpah and the name of the other Ruth. And they lived there about ten years. 
Ruth1:5 Then both Mahlon and Chilion also died, and the woman was left without her two children and her husband." 
Ruth1:6 Then she arose with her daughters-in-law and returned from the fields of Moab, for she had heard in the fields of Moab that Yahweh had visited His people to give them food." 
Ruth1:7 So she went forth from the place where she was, and her two daughters-in-law with her; and they went on the way to return to the land of Judah." 
Ruth1:8 And Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, “Go, return each of you to her mother’s house. May Yahweh show lovingkindness with you as you have shown with the dead and with me." 
Ruth1:9 May Yahweh grant that you may find rest, each in the house of her husband.” Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voices and wept." 
Ruth1:10 And they said to her, “No, but we will return with you to your people.”" 
Ruth1:11 But Naomi said, “Return, my daughters. Why should you go with me? Have I yet sons in my womb, that they may be your husbands?" 
Ruth1:12 Return, my daughters! Go, for I am too old to have a husband. If I said I have hope, if I should even have a husband tonight and also bear sons," 
Ruth1:13 would you therefore wait until they were grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying? No, my daughters; for it is more bitter for me than for you, for the hand of Yahweh has gone forth against me.”" 
Ruth1:14 And they lifted up their voices and wept again; and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her." 
Ruth1:15 Then she said, “Behold, your sister-in-law has returned to her people and her gods; return after your sister-in-law.”" 
Ruth1:16 But Ruth said, “Do not press me to forsake you in turning back from following you; for where you go, I will go, and where you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God, my God." 
Ruth1:17 Where you die, I will die, and there I will be buried. Thus may Yahweh do to me, and more, if anything but death separates you and me.”" 
Ruth1:18 So she saw that she was determined to go with her, and she said no more to her." 
Ruth1:19 Then they both went until they came to Bethlehem. Now it happened, when they had come to Bethlehem, all the city was stirred because of them, and the women said, “Is this Naomi?”" 
Ruth1:20 She said to them, “Do not call me Naomi; call me Mara, for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me." 
Ruth1:21 I went out full, but Yahweh has caused me to return empty. Why do you call me Naomi? Yahweh has answered against me, and the Almighty has brought calamity against me.”" 
Ruth1:22 So Naomi returned, and with her Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, who returned from the fields of Moab. Now they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest." 
Ruth2:1 Now Naomi had a kinsman of her husband, a mighty man of excellence, of the family of Elimelech, whose name was Boaz." 
Ruth2:2 And Ruth the Moabitess said to Naomi, “Please let me go to the field and glean among the ears of grain after one whom I may find favor in his eyes.” And she said to her, “Go, my daughter.”" 
Ruth2:3 So she went. And she came and gleaned in the field after the reapers. And it so happened that she happened to come to the portion of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech." 
Ruth2:4 Now behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem and said to the reapers, “May Yahweh be with you.” And they said to him, “May Yahweh bless you.”" 
Ruth2:5 Then Boaz said to his young man who was in charge of the reapers, “Whose young woman is this?”" 
Ruth2:6 The young man in charge of the reapers replied, “She is the young Moabite woman who returned with Naomi from the fields of Moab." 
Ruth2:7 And she said, ‘Please let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves.’ Thus she came and has remained from the morning until now; she has been sitting in the house for a little while.”" 
Ruth2:8 Then Boaz said to Ruth, “Have you not heard, my daughter? Do not go to glean in another field; furthermore, do not go on from this one, but stay here with my young women." 
Ruth2:9 Let your eyes be on the field which they reap, and go after them. Indeed, I have commanded the young men not to touch you. And if you are thirsty, go to the water jars and drink from what the young men draw.”" 
Ruth2:10 Then she fell on her face, bowing to the ground and said to him, “Why have I found favor in your sight that you should take notice of me, though I am a foreigner?”" 
Ruth2:11 Boaz replied to her, “All that you have done for your mother-in-law after the death of your husband has been fully told to me, and how you forsook your father and your mother and the land of your birth, and came to a people that you did not previously know." 
Ruth2:12 May Yahweh fully repay your work, and may your wages be full from Yahweh, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to seek refuge.”" 
Ruth2:13 Then she said, “May I find favor in your eyes, my lord, for you have comforted me and indeed have spoken to the heart of your servant-woman, though I am not like one of your servant-women.”" 
Ruth2:14 At mealtime Boaz said to her, “Come here, that you may eat of the bread and dip your piece of bread in the vinegar.” So she sat beside the reapers; and he served her roasted grain, and she ate and was satisfied and had some left." 
Ruth2:15 Then she rose to glean, and Boaz commanded his young men, saying, “Let her glean even among the sheaves, and do not dishonor her." 
Ruth2:16 Also you shall purposely pull out for her some grain from the bundles and leave it that she may glean, and do not rebuke her.”" 
Ruth2:17 So she gleaned in the field until evening. Then she beat out what she had gleaned, and it was about an ephah of barley." 
Ruth2:18 She took it up and went into the city, and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned. She also took it out and gave Naomi what she had left after she was satisfied." 
Ruth2:19 Her mother-in-law then said to her, “Where did you glean today and where did you work? May he who took notice of you be blessed.” So she told her mother-in-law with whom she had worked and said, “The name of the man with whom I worked today is Boaz.”" 
Ruth2:20 Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, “May he be blessed of Yahweh who has not forsaken his lovingkindness to the living and to the dead.” Then Naomi said to her, “The man is our relative; he is one of our kinsman redeemers.”" 
Ruth2:21 Then Ruth the Moabitess said, “Furthermore, he said to me, ‘You should stay close to my young men until they have finished all my harvest.’”" 
Ruth2:22 Naomi said to Ruth her daughter-in-law, “It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his young women, so that others do not oppress you in another field.”" 
Ruth2:23 So she stayed close by the young women of Boaz in order to glean until the end of the barley harvest and the wheat harvest. And she lived with her mother-in-law. 
Ruth3:1 Then Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, “My daughter, shall I not seek a state of rest for you, that it may be well with you?" 
Ruth3:2 And now, is not Boaz our kinsman, with whose young women you were? Behold, he is winnowing barley at the threshing floor tonight." 
Ruth3:3 So you shall wash yourself and anoint yourself and put on your best clothes, and you shall go down to the threshing floor; but do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking." 
Ruth3:4 Let it be that when he lies down, you shall know the place where he lies, and you shall go and uncover his feet and lie down; then he will tell you what you shall do.”" 
Ruth3:5 She said to her, “All that you say I will do.”" 
Ruth3:6 So she went down to the threshing floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law had commanded her. 
Ruth3:7 And Boaz ate and drank and his heart was merry, and he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain; and she came secretly and uncovered his feet and lay down." 
Ruth3:8 Then it happened in the middle of the night that the man was startled and bent forward; and behold, a woman was lying at his feet." 
Ruth3:9 And he said, “Who are you?” And she answered, “I am Ruth your maidservant. So spread your wing over your maidservant, for you are a kinsman redeemer.”" 
Ruth3:10 Then he said, “May you be blessed of Yahweh, my daughter. You have shown your last lovingkindness to be better than the first by not going after young men, whether poor or rich." 
Ruth3:11 So now, my daughter, do not fear. All that you say, I will do for you; for all my people within the gates of the city know that you are a woman of excellence." 
Ruth3:12 But now it is true I am a kinsman redeemer; however, there is a kinsman redeemer closer than I." 
Ruth3:13 Stay this night, and it will be in the morning that, if he will redeem you, good; let him redeem you. But if he does not desire to redeem you, then I will redeem you, as Yahweh lives. Lie down until morning.”" 
Ruth3:14 So she lay at his feet until morning and rose before one could recognize another; and he said, “Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor.”" 
Ruth3:15 And he said, “Give me the cloak that is on you and hold it.” So she held it, and he measured six measures of barley and placed it on her. Then she went into the city." 
Ruth3:16 Then she came to her mother-in-law, and she said, “How did it go, my daughter?” And she told her all that the man had done for her." 
Ruth3:17 She said, “These six measures of barley he gave to me, for he said, ‘Do not go to your mother-in-law empty.’”" 
Ruth3:18 Then she said, “Sit, then, my daughter, until you know how the matter falls into place; for the man will not remain quiet until he has finished the matter today.”" 
Ruth4:1 Now Boaz went up to the gate and sat down there, and behold, the kinsman redeemer of whom Boaz spoke was passing by, so he said, “Turn aside, my fellow, sit down here.” And he turned aside and sat down." 
Ruth4:2 Then he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, “Sit down here.” So they sat down." 
Ruth4:3 Then he said to the kinsman redeemer, “Naomi, who has come back from the fields of Moab, has to sell the portion of the field which belonged to our brother Elimelech." 
Ruth4:4 So I thought to uncover this matter in your hearing, saying, ‘Acquire it before those who are sitting here and before the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it; but if no one redeems it, tell me that I may know; for there is no one but you to redeem it, and I am after you.’” And he said, “I will redeem it.”" 
Ruth4:5 Then Boaz said, “On the day you acquire the field from the hand of Naomi, you must also acquire Ruth the Moabitess, the widow of the one who had died, in order to raise up the name of the one who had died, on behalf of his inheritance.”" 
Ruth4:6 So the kinsman redeemer said, “I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I ruin my own inheritance. You redeem my right of redemption for yourself, for I cannot redeem it.”" 
Ruth4:7 Now this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning the right of redemption and the exchange of land to establish any matter: a man removed his sandal and gave it to another; and this was the manner of attestation in Israel. 
Ruth4:8 So the kinsman redeemer said to Boaz, “Acquire this for yourself.” And he removed his sandal." 
Ruth4:9 Then Boaz said to the elders and all the people, “You are witnesses today that I have acquired all that belonged to Elimelech and all that belonged to Chilion and Mahlon from the hand of Naomi." 
Ruth4:10 And also, I have acquired Ruth the Moabitess, the widow of Mahlon, to be my wife in order to raise up the name of the one who had died, on behalf of his inheritance, so that the name of the one who had died will not be cut off from his brothers or from the gate of his birth place; you are witnesses today.”" 
Ruth4:11 And all the people who were in the gate, and the elders, said, “We are witnesses. May Yahweh grant the woman who is coming into your home to be like Rachel and Leah, both of whom built the house of Israel, and so you shall achieve excellence in Ephrathah and shall proclaim your name in Bethlehem." 
Ruth4:12 Moreover, may your house be like the house of Perez whom Tamar bore to Judah, through the seed which Yahweh will grant you by this young woman.”" 
Ruth4:13 So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife, and he went in to her. And Yahweh granted her conception, and she gave birth to a son." 
Ruth4:14 Then the women said to Naomi, “Blessed is Yahweh who has not left you without a kinsman redeemer today, and may his name be proclaimed in Israel." 
Ruth4:15 May he also be to you a restorer of your soul and a sustainer of your old age; for your daughter-in-law, who loves you and is better to you than seven sons, has given birth to him.”" 
Ruth4:16 Then Naomi took the child and put him on her bosom and became his nurse. 
Ruth4:17 The neighbor women gave him a name, saying, “A son has been born to Naomi!” So they named him Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David." 
Ruth4:18 Now these are the generations of Perez: Perez became the father of Hezron," 
Ruth4:19 and Hezron became the father of Ram, and Ram became the father of Amminadab," 
Ruth4:20 and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon became the father of Salmah," 
Ruth4:21 and Salmon became the father of Boaz, and Boaz became the father of Obed," 
Ruth4:22 and Obed became the father of Jesse, and Jesse became the father of David." 
1Samuel1:1 Now there was a certain man from Ramathaim-zophim from the hill country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite." 
1Samuel1:2 Now he had two wives: the name of one was Hannah and the name of the other Peninnah; and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children." 
1Samuel1:3 Now that man would go up from his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice to Yahweh of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were priests to Yahweh there." 
1Samuel1:4 And the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, and he would give portions to Peninnah his wife and to all her sons and her daughters;" 
1Samuel1:5 but to Hannah he would give a double portion, for he loved Hannah, but Yahweh had closed her womb." 
1Samuel1:6 Her rival, however, would provoke her bitterly to irritate her because Yahweh had closed her womb." 
1Samuel1:7 And so it would happen year after year, as often as she went up to the house of Yahweh, she would provoke her; so she wept and would not eat." 
1Samuel1:8 Then Elkanah her husband said to her, “Hannah, why do you weep and why do you not eat and why is your heart sad? Am I not better to you than ten sons?”" 
1Samuel1:9 Then Hannah rose after eating and drinking in Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the temple of Yahweh. 
1Samuel1:10 And she, bitter of soul, prayed to Yahweh and wept despondently." 
1Samuel1:11 And she made a vow and said, “O Yahweh of hosts, if You will indeed look on the affliction of Your maidservant and remember me and not forget Your maidservant, but will give Your maidservant a seed amongst men, then I will give him to Yahweh all the days of his life, and a razor shall never come on his head.”" 
1Samuel1:12 Now it happened, as she multiplied her praying before Yahweh, that Eli was watching her mouth." 
1Samuel1:13 As for Hannah, she was speaking in her heart; only her lips were moving, but her voice was not heard. So Eli thought she was drunk." 
1Samuel1:14 Then Eli said to her, “How long will you make yourself drunk? Put away your wine from you.”" 
1Samuel1:15 But Hannah answered and said, “No, my lord, I am a woman oppressed in spirit; I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I have poured out my soul before Yahweh." 
1Samuel1:16 Do not consider your maidservant as a vile woman, for I have spoken until now out of my great complaint and provocation.”" 
1Samuel1:17 Then Eli answered and said, “Go in peace; and may the God of Israel grant your petition that you have asked of Him.”" 
1Samuel1:18 And she said, “Let your servant-woman find favor in your sight.” So the woman went her way and ate, and her face was no longer sad." 
1Samuel1:19 Then they arose early in the morning and worshiped before Yahweh and turned back and came to their house in Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife, and Yahweh remembered her." 
1Samuel1:20 Now it happened in due time that Hannah conceived and gave birth to a son; and she named him Samuel, saying, “Because I have asked him of Yahweh.”" 
1Samuel1:21 Then the man Elkanah went up with all his household to offer to Yahweh the yearly sacrifice and pay his vow. 
1Samuel1:22 But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, “I will not go up until the young boy is weaned; then I will bring him, that he may appear before Yahweh and stay there forever.”" 
1Samuel1:23 And Elkanah her husband said to her, “Do what is good in your eyes. Remain until you have weaned him; only may Yahweh establish His word.” So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him." 
1Samuel1:24 Now when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with a three-year-old bull and one ephah of flour and a jug of wine and brought him to the house of Yahweh in Shiloh, although the boy was young." 
1Samuel1:25 Then they slaughtered the bull and brought the young boy to Eli. 
1Samuel1:26 And she said, “Oh, my lord! As your soul lives, my lord, I am the woman who stood here beside you, praying to Yahweh." 
1Samuel1:27 For this young boy I prayed, and Yahweh has given me my petition which I asked of Him." 
1Samuel1:28 So I have also dedicated him to Yahweh; as long as he lives, he is dedicated to Yahweh.” So he worshiped Yahweh there." 
1Samuel2:1 Then Hannah prayed and said, “My heart exults in Yahweh; My horn is exalted in Yahweh; My mouth speaks boldly against my enemies, Because I am glad in Your salvation." 
1Samuel2:2 There is no one holy like Yahweh; Indeed, there is no one besides You, Nor is there any rock like our God." 
1Samuel2:3 Do not multiply speaking so very proudly; Let arrogance not come out of your mouth; For Yahweh is a God of knowledge, And with Him actions are weighed." 
1Samuel2:4 The bows of the mighty are shattered, But those who stumble gird on strength." 
1Samuel2:5 Those who were full hire themselves out for bread, But those who were hungry cease to hunger. Even the barren gives birth to seven, But she who has many children languishes." 
1Samuel2:6 Yahweh puts to death and makes alive; He brings down to Sheol and raises up. 
1Samuel2:7 Yahweh makes poor and rich; He brings low; He also exalts. 
1Samuel2:8 He raises the poor from the dust; He exalts the needy from the ash heap To make them sit with nobles, And inherit a seat of glory; For the pillars of the earth are Yahweh’s, And He set the world on them." 
1Samuel2:9 He keeps the feet of His holy ones, But the wicked ones are silenced in darkness, For not by power shall a man prevail." 
1Samuel2:10 Those who contend with Yahweh will be dismayed; Against them He will thunder in the heavens; Yahweh will render justice to the ends of the earth, And He will give strength to His king, And He will exalt the horn of His anointed.”" 
1Samuel2:11 Then Elkanah went to his home at Ramah. But the young boy ministered to Yahweh before Eli the priest. 
1Samuel2:12 Now the sons of Eli were vile men; they did not know Yahweh. 
1Samuel2:13 And this was the legal judgment for the priests with the people: when any man was offering a sacrifice, the priest’s young man would come while the meat was boiling, with a three-pronged fork in his hand." 
1Samuel2:14 Then he would thrust it into the pan or kettle or caldron or pot; all that the fork would bring up the priest would take for himself. Thus they would do in Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there. 
1Samuel2:15 Also, before they offered up the fat in smoke, the priest’s young man would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, “Give the priest meat for roasting; he will not take boiled meat from you, only raw.”" 
1Samuel2:16 Then the man would say to him, “They must surely offer up the fat in smoke first, and then take as much as your soul desires,” then he would say, “No, you shall give it now; and if not, I will take it by force.”" 
1Samuel2:17 Thus the sin of the young men was very great before Yahweh, for the men spurned the offering of Yahweh." 
1Samuel2:18 Now Samuel was ministering before Yahweh, as a young boy girded with a linen ephod." 
1Samuel2:19 And his mother would make him a little robe and bring it to him from year to year when she would come up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. 
1Samuel2:20 Then Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife and say, “May Yahweh establish for you a seed from this woman in place of the one she dedicated to Yahweh.” And they went to their own home." 
1Samuel2:21 Yahweh indeed visited Hannah; and she conceived and gave birth to three sons and two daughters. And the young boy Samuel grew before Yahweh. 
1Samuel2:22 Now Eli was very old; and he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who served at the doorway of the tent of meeting." 
1Samuel2:23 So he said to them, “Why do you do such things, the evil things that I hear from all these people?" 
1Samuel2:24 No, my sons; for the report is not good which I hear the people of Yahweh passing about." 
1Samuel2:25 If one man sins against another, God will mediate for him; but if a man sins against Yahweh, who can pray for him?” But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for Yahweh desired to put them to death." 
1Samuel2:26 Now the young boy Samuel was growing in stature and in favor both with Yahweh and with men. 
1Samuel2:27 Then a man of God came to Eli and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Did I not indeed reveal Myself to the house of your father when they were in Egypt, enslaved to Pharaoh’s house?" 
1Samuel2:28 And did I not choose them from all the tribes of Israel to be My priests, to go up to My altar, to burn incense, to carry an ephod before Me; and did I not give to the house of your father all the fire offerings of the sons of Israel?" 
1Samuel2:29 Why do you kick at My sacrifice and at My offering which I have commanded in My habitation, and honor your sons above Me, by making yourselves fat with the choicest of every offering of My people Israel?’" 
1Samuel2:30 Therefore Yahweh, the God of Israel, declares, ‘I did indeed say that your house and the house of your father should walk before Me forever’; but now Yahweh declares, ‘Far be it from Me—for those who honor Me I will honor, and those who despise Me will be cursed." 
1Samuel2:31 Behold, the days are coming, and I will break your strength and the strength of your father’s house so that there will not be an old man in your house." 
1Samuel2:32 And you will look upon the distress of My habitation, in spite of all the good that I do for Israel; and an old man will not be in your house all the days." 
1Samuel2:33 Yet I will not cut off every man of yours from My altar so that your eyes will fail from weeping and your soul grieve, and all the increase of your house will be put to death in the prime of life." 
1Samuel2:34 Now this will be the sign to you which will come concerning your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas: on the same day both of them will be put to death." 
1Samuel2:35 But I will raise up for Myself a faithful priest who will do according to what is in My heart and in My soul; and I will build him a faithful house, and he will walk before My anointed always." 
1Samuel2:36 And it will be that everyone who is left in your house will come and bow down to him for a piece of silver or a loaf of bread and say, “Please assign me to one of the priest’s offices so that I may eat a piece of bread.”’”" 
1Samuel3:1 Now the young boy Samuel was ministering to Yahweh before Eli. And word from Yahweh was rare in those days; visions were infrequent. 
1Samuel3:2 And it happened at that time as Eli was lying down in his place (now his eyesight had begun to fade, and he could not see well)," 
1Samuel3:3 and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was lying down in the temple of Yahweh where the ark of God was," 
1Samuel3:4 that Yahweh called Samuel; and he said, “Here I am.”" 
1Samuel3:5 Then he ran to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called me.” But he said, “I did not call; go back, lie down.” So he went and lay down." 
1Samuel3:6 Then Yahweh called yet again, “Samuel!” So Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called me.” But he answered, “I did not call, my son; go back, lie down.”" 
1Samuel3:7 Now Samuel did not yet know Yahweh, nor had the word of Yahweh yet been revealed to him." 
1Samuel3:8 So Yahweh called Samuel again for the third time. And he arose and went to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called me.” Then Eli discerned that Yahweh was calling the young boy." 
1Samuel3:9 And Eli said to Samuel, “Go lie down, and it shall be if He calls you, that you shall say, ‘Speak, Yahweh, for Your slave is listening.’” So Samuel went and lay down in his place." 
1Samuel3:10 Then Yahweh came and stood and called as at other times, “Samuel! Samuel!” And Samuel said, “Speak, for Your slave is listening.”" 
1Samuel3:11 And Yahweh said to Samuel, “Behold, I am about to do a thing in Israel at which both ears of everyone who hears it will tingle." 
1Samuel3:12 In that day I will establish against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from beginning to end." 
1Samuel3:13 And I have told him that I am about to judge his house forever for the iniquity which he knew because his sons have been bringing a curse on themselves, but he did not rebuke them." 
1Samuel3:14 Now therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli’s house shall not be atoned for by sacrifice or offering forever.” 
1Samuel3:15 So Samuel lay down until morning. Then he opened the doors of the house of Yahweh. But Samuel was afraid to tell the vision to Eli. 
1Samuel3:16 Then Eli called Samuel and said, “Samuel, my son.” And he said, “Here I am.”" 
1Samuel3:17 And he said, “What is the word that He spoke to you? Please do not hide it from me. May God do so to you, and more also, if you hide anything from me of all the words that He spoke to you.”" 
1Samuel3:18 So Samuel told him everything and hid nothing from him. And he said, “It is Yahweh; let Him do what seems good in His eyes.”" 
1Samuel3:19 Thus Samuel grew, and Yahweh was with him and let none of his words fall to the ground." 
1Samuel3:20 So all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was confirmed as a prophet of Yahweh. 
1Samuel3:21 And Yahweh appeared again at Shiloh, because Yahweh revealed Himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of Yahweh." 
1Samuel4:1 Thus the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to meet the Philistines in battle and camped beside Ebenezer, and the Philistines camped in Aphek." 
1Samuel4:2 And the Philistines arranged themselves to meet Israel. Then the battle spread, and Israel was defeated before the Philistines who struck down about 4,000 men on the battlefield." 
1Samuel4:3 Then the people came into the camp, and the elders of Israel said, “Why has Yahweh defeated us today before the Philistines? Let us take to ourselves from Shiloh the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, that it may come among us and save us from the power of our enemies.”" 
1Samuel4:4 So the people sent to Shiloh, and from there they carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh of hosts who sits above the cherubim; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God." 
1Samuel4:5 And it happened that as the ark of the covenant of Yahweh came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth was thrown into confusion." 
1Samuel4:6 Then the Philistines heard the noise of the shout and said, “What does the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean?” Then they knew that the ark of Yahweh had come into the camp." 
1Samuel4:7 And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, “God has come into the camp.” And they said, “Woe to us! For nothing like this has happened before." 
1Samuel4:8 Woe to us! Who shall deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods? These are the gods who struck the Egyptians with all kinds of plagues in the wilderness. 
1Samuel4:9 Be strong and become men, O Philistines, lest you become slaves to the Hebrews, as they have been slaves to you; therefore, become men and fight.”" 
1Samuel4:10 So the Philistines fought, and Israel was defeated, and every man fled to his tent; and the slaughter was very great, for there fell of Israel 30,000 foot soldiers." 
1Samuel4:11 And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died." 
1Samuel4:12 Now a man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh the same day with his robes torn and dust on his head. 
1Samuel4:13 And he came, and behold, Eli was sitting on his seat by the road eagerly watching because his heart was trembling for the ark of God. Now the man came to tell it in the city, and all the city cried out." 
1Samuel4:14 Then Eli heard the noise of the outcry, and he said, “What does the noise of this commotion mean?” So the man came hurriedly and told Eli." 
1Samuel4:15 Now Eli was ninety-eight years old, and his eyes had set so that he could not see." 
1Samuel4:16 And the man said to Eli, “I am the one who came from the battle line. Indeed, I fled from the battle line today.” And he said, “How did things go, my son?”" 
1Samuel4:17 Then the one who brought the news answered and said, “Israel has fled before the Philistines, and there has also been a great slaughter among the people, and your two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God has been taken.”" 
1Samuel4:18 And it happened that when he mentioned the ark of God, Eli fell off the seat backward beside the gate, and his neck was broken, and he died, for the man was old and heavy. Thus he judged Israel forty years." 
1Samuel4:19 Now his daughter-in-law, Phinehas’s wife, was with child and about to give birth. And she heard the report that the ark of God was taken and that her father-in-law and her husband had died, so she kneeled down and gave birth, for her pains came upon her." 
1Samuel4:20 And about the time of her death the women who stood by her said to her, “Do not be afraid, for you have given birth to a son.” But she did not answer or pay attention." 
1Samuel4:21 And she called the boy Ichabod, saying, “The glory has departed from Israel,” because the ark of God was taken and because of her father-in-law and her husband." 
1Samuel4:22 And she said, “The glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God was taken.”" 
1Samuel5:1 Now the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. 
1Samuel5:2 Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it to the house of Dagon and set it by Dagon. 
1Samuel5:3 Then the Ashdodites arose early the next morning, and behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh. So they took Dagon and set him in his place again." 
1Samuel5:4 But they arose early the next morning, and behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh. And the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off on the threshold; only the trunk of Dagon was left to him." 
1Samuel5:5 Therefore neither the priests of Dagon nor all who enter Dagon’s house tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod to this day. 
1Samuel5:6 Now the hand of Yahweh was glorious against the Ashdodites, and He made them desolate and struck them with tumors, both Ashdod and its territories." 
1Samuel5:7 Thus the men of Ashdod saw that it was so and said, “The ark of the God of Israel must not remain with us, for His hand is severe on us and on Dagon our god.”" 
1Samuel5:8 So they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines to them and said, “What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?” And they said, “Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought around to Gath.” And they brought the ark of the God of Israel around." 
1Samuel5:9 Now it happened after they had brought it around, that the hand of Yahweh was against the city with very great confusion; and He struck the men of the city, both young and old, so that tumors broke out on them." 
1Samuel5:10 So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And as the ark of God came to Ekron the Ekronites cried out, saying, “They have brought the ark of the God of Israel around to us, to put us and our people to death.”" 
1Samuel5:11 They sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines and said, “Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to its own place, so that it will not put us and our people to death.” For there was a deadly confusion throughout the city; the hand of God was very glorious there." 
1Samuel5:12 Now the men who did not die were struck with tumors and the cry of the city went up to heaven. 
1Samuel6:1 Now the ark of Yahweh had been in the fields of the Philistines seven months. 
1Samuel6:2 And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, “What shall we do with the ark of Yahweh? Make us know how we shall send it to its place.”" 
1Samuel6:3 So they said, “If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it empty; but you shall surely return to Him a guilt offering. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why His hand is not turned away from you.”" 
1Samuel6:4 Then they said, “What shall be the guilt offering which we shall return to Him?” And they said, “Five golden tumors and five golden mice according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for one plague was on all of you and on your lords." 
1Samuel6:5 So you shall make likenesses of your tumors and likenesses of your mice that bring the land to ruin, and you shall give glory to the God of Israel; perhaps He will ease His hand from you, your gods, and your land." 
1Samuel6:6 Why then do you harden your hearts as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? When He had abused them, did they not allow the people to go, and they went?" 
1Samuel6:7 So now, take and make a new cart and two milch cows on which there has never been a yoke; and hitch the cows to the cart and take their calves home, away from them." 
1Samuel6:8 And take the ark of Yahweh and place it on the cart; and put the articles of gold which you return to Him as a guilt offering in a box by its side. Then send it away that it may go. 
1Samuel6:9 See, if it goes up by the way of its own territory to Beth-shemesh, then He has done us this great evil. But if not, then we will know that it was not His hand that smote us; it happened to us by chance.”" 
1Samuel6:10 Then the men did so and took two milch cows and hitched them to the cart and shut up their calves at home. 
1Samuel6:11 And they put the ark of Yahweh on the cart, as well as the box with the golden mice and the likenesses of their tumors." 
1Samuel6:12 And the cows took the straight way in the direction of Beth-shemesh; they went along the highway, lowing as they went, and did not turn aside to the right or to the left. And the lords of the Philistines went after them to the border of Beth-shemesh." 
1Samuel6:13 Now the people of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley, and they raised their eyes and saw the ark and were glad to see it." 
1Samuel6:14 And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite and stood there, and a large stone was there; and they split the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to Yahweh." 
1Samuel6:14 And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite and stood there, and a large stone was there; and they split the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to Yahweh." 
1Samuel6:15 And the Levites took down the ark of Yahweh and the box that was with it, in which were the articles of gold, and put them on the large stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices that day to Yahweh." 
1Samuel6:16 So the five lords of the Philistines saw it and returned to Ekron that day. 
1Samuel6:17 Now these are the golden tumors which the Philistines returned for a guilt offering to Yahweh: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron;" 
1Samuel6:18 and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and of country villages. The large stone on which they set the ark of Yahweh is a witness to this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite." 
1Samuel6:18 and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and of country villages. The large stone on which they set the ark of Yahweh is a witness to this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite." 
1Samuel6:19 Then He struck down some of the men of Beth-shemesh because they had looked into the ark of Yahweh. He struck down of all the people, 50,070 men, and the people mourned because Yahweh had struck the people with a great slaughter." 
1Samuel6:20 And the men of Beth-shemesh said, “Who is able to stand before Yahweh, this holy God? And to whom shall He go up from us?”" 
1Samuel6:21 So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, “The Philistines have brought back the ark of Yahweh; come down and take it up to you.”" 
1Samuel7:1 And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and brought the ark of Yahweh up and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill and set apart Eleazar his son as holy in order to keep the ark of Yahweh. 
1Samuel7:2 Now it happened from the day when the ark remained at Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; it was twenty years. And all the house of Israel lamented after Yahweh." 
1Samuel7:3 Then Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying, “If you are to return to Yahweh with all your heart, then remove the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you and set your hearts toward Yahweh and serve Him alone; and He will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines.”" 
1Samuel7:4 So the sons of Israel removed the Baals and the Ashtaroth and served Yahweh alone. 
1Samuel7:5 Then Samuel said, “Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray to Yahweh for you.”" 
1Samuel7:6 And they gathered to Mizpah and drew water and poured it out before Yahweh and fasted on that day and said there, “We have sinned against Yahweh.” And Samuel judged the sons of Israel at Mizpah." 
1Samuel7:7 Then the Philistines heard that the sons of Israel had gathered to Mizpah. And the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. Then the sons of Israel heard it and were afraid of the Philistines. 
1Samuel7:8 So the sons of Israel said to Samuel, “Do not cease to cry out to Yahweh our God for us, that He may save us from the hand of the Philistines.”" 
1Samuel7:9 And Samuel took a suckling lamb and offered it for a whole burnt offering to Yahweh; and Samuel cried out to Yahweh for Israel, and Yahweh answered him." 
1Samuel7:10 Now Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, and the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel. But Yahweh thundered with a great thunder on that day against the Philistines and confused them, so that they were defeated before Israel." 
1Samuel7:11 So the men of Israel went out of Mizpah and pursued the Philistines and struck them down as far as below Beth-car. 
1Samuel7:12 Then Samuel took a stone and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and he named it Ebenezer. And he said, “Thus far Yahweh has helped us.”" 
1Samuel7:13 So the Philistines were subdued, and they did not come anymore within the border of Israel. And the hand of Yahweh was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel." 
1Samuel7:14 And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and Israel delivered their territory from the hand of the Philistines. So there was peace between Israel and the Amorites." 
1Samuel7:15 Thus Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life. 
1Samuel7:16 And he used to go annually on circuit to Bethel and Gilgal and Mizpah, and he judged Israel in all these places." 
1Samuel7:17 But his return would be to Ramah, for his house was there, and there he judged Israel; and he built there an altar to Yahweh." 
1Samuel8:1 And it happened when Samuel was old that he appointed his sons judges over Israel. 
1Samuel8:2 The name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah; they were judging in Beersheba." 
1Samuel8:2 The name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah; they were judging in Beersheba." 
1Samuel8:3 But his sons did not walk in his ways, but turned aside after greedy gain and took bribes and caused justice to turn aside." 
1Samuel8:4 Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah; 
1Samuel8:5 and they said to him, “Behold, you have grown old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint a king for us to judge us like all the nations.”" 
1Samuel8:6 But the thing was evil in the sight of Samuel when they said, “Give us a king to judge us.” And Samuel prayed to Yahweh." 
1Samuel8:7 Then Yahweh said to Samuel, “Listen to the voice of the people in regard to all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected Me from being king over them." 
1Samuel8:8 Like all the deeds which they have done since the day that I brought them up from Egypt even to this day—in that they have forsaken Me and served other gods—so they are doing to you also. 
1Samuel8:9 So now, listen to their voice; however, you shall solemnly testify to them and tell them of the custom of the king who will reign over them.”" 
1Samuel8:10 So Samuel spoke all the words of Yahweh to the people who had asked of him a king. 
1Samuel8:11 And he said, “This will be the custom of the king who will reign over you: he will take your sons and appoint them for himself in his chariots and among his horsemen, and they will run before his chariots." 
1Samuel8:12 And he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and of fifties, and some to do his plowing and to reap his harvest and to make his weapons of war and equipment for his chariots." 
1Samuel8:13 He will also take your daughters for perfumers and cooks and bakers. 
1Samuel8:14 He will take the best of your fields and your vineyards and your olive groves and give them to his servants. 
1Samuel8:15 He will take a tenth of your seed and of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants. 
1Samuel8:16 He will also take your male slaves and your female slaves and your best young men and your donkeys and use them for his work. 
1Samuel8:17 He will take a tenth of your flocks, and you yourselves will become his slaves." 
1Samuel8:18 Then you will cry out in that day because of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves, but Yahweh will not answer you in that day.”" 
1Samuel8:19 Nevertheless, the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel, and they said, “No, but there shall be a king over us," 
1Samuel8:20 that we also may be like all the nations, that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles.”" 
1Samuel8:21 So Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he repeated them in the hearing of Yahweh." 
1Samuel8:22 Then Yahweh said to Samuel, “Listen to their voice and appoint them a king.” So Samuel said to the men of Israel, “Go every man to his city.”" 
1Samuel9:1 Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor." 
1Samuel9:2 Now he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice and handsome man, and there was not a more handsome person than he among the sons of Israel; from his shoulders and up he was taller than any of the people." 
1Samuel9:3 Now the donkeys of Kish, Saul’s father, were lost. So Kish said to his son Saul, “Take now with you one of the young men, and arise, go search for the donkeys.”" 
1Samuel9:4 Thus he passed through the hill country of Ephraim and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they did not find them. Then they passed through the land of Shaalim, but they were not there. Then he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they did not find them." 
1Samuel9:5 They came to the land of Zuph. And Saul said to his young man who was with him, “Come, and let us return, lest my father cease to be concerned about the donkeys and become anxious for us.”" 
1Samuel9:6 But he said to him, “Behold now, there is a man of God in this city, and the man is held in honor; all that he says surely comes true. Now let us go there, perhaps he can tell us about our journey on which we have gone.”" 
1Samuel9:7 Then Saul said to his young man, “But behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? For the bread is gone from our sack, and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What do we have?”" 
1Samuel9:8 And the young man answered Saul again and said, “Behold, I have in my hand a fourth of a shekel of silver; I will give it to the man of God, and he will tell us our way.”" 
1Samuel9:9 (Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he used to say, “Come, and let us go to the seer”; for he who is called a prophet now was formerly called a seer.)" 
1Samuel9:10 Then Saul said to his young man, “Your word is good; come, let us go.” So they went to the city where the man of God was." 
1Samuel9:11 As they were going up the slope to the city, they found young women going out to draw water and said to them, “Is the seer here?”" 
1Samuel9:12 And they answered them and said, “He is! Behold, he is ahead of you. Hurry now, for he has come into the city today, for the people have a sacrifice on the high place today." 
1Samuel9:13 As soon as you enter the city you will find him before he goes up to the high place to eat, for the people will not eat until he comes because he must bless the sacrifice; afterward those who are invited will eat. So now, go up for you will find him at once.”" 
1Samuel9:14 So they went up to the city. As they came into the city, behold, Samuel was coming out to meet them to go up to the high place." 
1Samuel9:15 Now a day before Saul’s coming, Yahweh had revealed this in Samuel’s hearing, saying," 
1Samuel9:16 “About this time tomorrow I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him to be ruler over My people Israel; and he will save My people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have regarded My people because their cry has come to Me.”" 
1Samuel9:17 Now Samuel saw Saul, and Yahweh answered him, “Behold, the man of whom I spoke to you! This one shall restrict My people.”" 
1Samuel9:18 Then Saul approached Samuel in the gate and said, “Please tell me where the seer’s house is.”" 
1Samuel9:19 And Samuel answered Saul and said, “I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for you shall eat with me today; and in the morning I will let you go and will tell you all that is on your heart." 
1Samuel9:20 As for your donkeys which were lost three days ago, do not set your heart on them, for they have been found. And for whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for you and for all your father’s household?”" 
1Samuel9:21 And Saul answered and said, “Am I not a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then do you speak to me in this way?”" 
1Samuel9:22 Then Samuel took Saul and his young man and brought them into the chamber and gave them a place at the head of those who were invited, who were about thirty men." 
1Samuel9:23 And Samuel said to the cook, “Bring the portion that I gave you, concerning which I said to you, ‘Set it aside.’”" 
1Samuel9:24 Then the cook took up the leg with what was on it and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, “Here is what has been reserved! Set it before you and eat, because it has been kept for you until the appointed time, since I said I have invited the people.” So Saul ate with Samuel that day." 
1Samuel9:25 Then they came down from the high place into the city, and Samuel spoke with Saul on the roof." 
1Samuel9:26 And they arose early; and at the breaking of dawn Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, “Get up, that I may send you away.” So Saul arose, and both he and Samuel went out into the street." 
1Samuel9:27 As they were going down to the edge of the city, Samuel said to Saul, “Say to the young man that he might pass before us and pass onwards, but you remain standing now, that I may cause you to hear the word of God.”" 
1Samuel10:1 Then Samuel took the flask of oil, poured it on his head, kissed him, and said, “Has not Yahweh anointed you a ruler over His inheritance?" 
1Samuel10:2 When you go from me today, then you will find two men close to Rachel’s tomb in the territory of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say to you, ‘The donkeys which you went to search for have been found. Now behold, your father has ceased to be concerned about the donkeys and is anxious for you, saying, “What shall I do about my son?”’" 
1Samuel10:3 Then you will go on further from there, and you will come as far as the oak of Tabor, and there three men going up to God at Bethel will meet you, one carrying three young goats, another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a jug of wine;" 
1Samuel10:4 and they will greet you and give you two loaves of bread. And you will take them from their hand. 
1Samuel10:5 Afterward you will come to the hill of God where the Philistine garrison is; and it shall be as soon as you have come there to the city, that you will meet a group of prophets coming down from the high place with harp, tambourine, flute, and a lyre before them, and they will be prophesying." 
1Samuel10:6 Then the Spirit of Yahweh will come upon you mightily, and you shall prophesy with them and be changed into another man." 
1Samuel10:7 Now it will be when these signs come to you, do for yourself whatever your hand finds to do, for God is with you." 
1Samuel10:8 And you shall go down before me to Gilgal; and behold, I will come down to you to offer burnt offerings and sacrifice peace offerings. You shall wait seven days until I come to you and make you know what you should do.”" 
1Samuel10:9 Then it happened when he turned his back to leave Samuel, God changed his heart; and all those signs came about on that day." 
1Samuel10:10 And they came to the hill there, and behold, a group of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him mightily, so that he prophesied among them." 
1Samuel10:11 Now it happened that all who knew him previously saw, and behold, he was prophesying with the prophets, so the people said to one another, “What has happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?”" 
1Samuel10:12 And a man there answered and said, “Now, who is their father?” Therefore it became a proverb: “Is Saul also among the prophets?”" 
1Samuel10:13 Then he finished prophesying and came to the high place. 
1Samuel10:14 Now Saul’s uncle said to him and his young man, “Where did you go?” And he said, “To look for the donkeys. And we saw that they were not anywhere, so we went to Samuel.”" 
1Samuel10:15 And Saul’s uncle said, “Please tell me what Samuel said to you.”" 
1Samuel10:16 So Saul said to his uncle, “He told us plainly that the donkeys had been found.” But he did not tell him about the matter of the kingdom which Samuel had said." 
1Samuel10:17 Then Samuel called the people together to Yahweh at Mizpah; 
1Samuel10:18 and he said to the sons of Israel, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘I brought Israel up from Egypt, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all the kingdoms that were oppressing you.’" 
1Samuel10:19 But you have today rejected your God, who saves you from all your calamities and your distresses; yet you have said, ‘No, but set a king over us!’ So now, take your stand before Yahweh by your tribes and by your clans.”" 
1Samuel10:20 Thus Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken by lot." 
1Samuel10:21 Then he brought the tribe of Benjamin near by its families, and the Matrite family was taken. And Saul the son of Kish was taken; but they looked for him, and he could not be found." 
1Samuel10:22 Therefore they inquired further of Yahweh, “Has the man come here yet?” So Yahweh said, “Behold, he is hiding himself by the baggage.”" 
1Samuel10:23 So they ran and took him from there, and he stood among the people. And he was taller than any of the people from his shoulders upward." 
1Samuel10:24 And Samuel said to all the people, “Do you see him whom Yahweh has chosen? Surely there is no one like him among all the people.” So all the people shouted and said, “Long live the king!”" 
1Samuel10:25 Then Samuel spoke with the people about the legal judgments of the kingdom and wrote them in the book and placed it before Yahweh. And Samuel sent all the people away, each one to his house." 
1Samuel10:26 Saul also went to his house at Gibeah; and the valiant men whose hearts God had touched went with him. 
1Samuel10:27 But certain vile men said, “How can this one save us?” And they despised him and did not bring him any present. But he kept silent." 
1Samuel11:1 And Nahash the Ammonite came up and besieged Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, “Cut a covenant with us, and we will serve you.”" 
1Samuel11:2 But Nahash the Ammonite said to them, “I will cut it with you on this condition, that I will gouge out the right eye of every one of you, thus I will make it a reproach on all Israel.”" 
1Samuel11:3 Then the elders of Jabesh said to him, “Let us alone for seven days, that we may send messengers throughout the territory of Israel. Then, if there is no one to save us, we will come out to you.”" 
1Samuel11:4 Then the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and spoke these words in the hearing of the people, and all the people lifted up their voices and wept." 
1Samuel11:5 Now behold, Saul was coming from the field behind the oxen, and he said, “What is the matter with the people that they weep?” So they recounted to him the words of the men of Jabesh." 
1Samuel11:6 Then the Spirit of God came upon Saul mightily when he heard these words, and he burned with anger exceedingly." 
1Samuel11:7 Then he took a pair of oxen and cut them in pieces and sent them throughout the territory of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, “Whoever does not come out after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done to his oxen.” Then the dread of Yahweh fell on the people, and they came out as one man." 
1Samuel11:8 And he numbered them in Bezek; and the sons of Israel were 300,000, and the men of Judah 30,000." 
1Samuel11:9 And they said to the messengers who had come, “Thus you shall say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, ‘Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, you will have salvation.’” So the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad." 
1Samuel11:10 Then the men of Jabesh said, “Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you may do to us whatever seems good in your eyes.”" 
1Samuel11:11 Then the next morning Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp at the morning watch and struck down the Ammonites until the heat of the day. Those who survived were scattered, so that no two of them were left together." 
1Samuel11:12 Then the people said to Samuel, “Who is he that said, ‘Shall Saul reign over us?’ Bring the men, that we may put them to death.”" 
1Samuel11:13 But Saul said, “Not a man shall be put to death this day, for today Yahweh has accomplished salvation in Israel.”" 
1Samuel11:14 Then Samuel said to the people, “Come and let us go to Gilgal and renew the kingdom there.”" 
1Samuel11:15 So all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king before Yahweh in Gilgal. There they also offered sacrifices of peace offerings before Yahweh; and there Saul and all the men of Israel were exceedingly glad." 
1Samuel12:1 Then Samuel said to all Israel, “Behold, I have listened to your voice in all that you said to me, and I have appointed a king over you." 
1Samuel12:2 So now, here is the king walking before you, but I am old and gray, and behold, my sons are with you. And I have walked before you from my youth even to this day." 
1Samuel12:3 Here I am; bear witness against me before Yahweh and His anointed. Whose ox have I taken, or whose donkey have I taken, or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed, or from whose hand have I taken a bribe to blind my eyes with it? I will restore it to you.”" 
1Samuel12:4 And they said, “You have not extorted us or oppressed us or taken anything from any man’s hand.”" 
1Samuel12:5 So he said to them, “Yahweh is witness against you, and His anointed is witness this day that you have found nothing in my hand.” And they said, “He is witness.”" 
1Samuel12:6 Then Samuel said to the people, “It is Yahweh who appointed Moses and Aaron and who brought your fathers up from the land of Egypt." 
1Samuel12:7 So now, take your stand, that I may judge you before Yahweh concerning all the righteous acts of Yahweh which He did for you and your fathers." 
1Samuel12:8 When Jacob went into Egypt and your fathers cried out to Yahweh, then Yahweh sent Moses and Aaron who brought your fathers out of Egypt and settled them in this place." 
1Samuel12:9 But they forgot Yahweh their God, so He sold them into the hand of Sisera, commander of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them." 
1Samuel12:10 And they cried out to Yahweh and said, ‘We have sinned because we have forsaken Yahweh and have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth; but now deliver us from the hands of our enemies, and we will serve You.’" 
1Samuel12:11 Then Yahweh sent Jerubbaal and Bedan and Jephthah and Samuel, and He delivered you from the hands of your enemies all around, so that you lived in security." 
1Samuel12:12 But you saw that Nahash the king of the sons of Ammon came against you, and you said to me, ‘No, but a king shall reign over us,’ although Yahweh your God was your king." 
1Samuel12:13 So now, behold, the king whom you have chosen, whom you have asked for, and behold, Yahweh has set a king over you." 
1Samuel12:14 If you will fear Yahweh and serve Him and listen to His voice and not rebel against the command of Yahweh, then both you and also the king who reigns over you will follow Yahweh your God." 
1Samuel12:15 But if you will not listen to the voice of Yahweh, but rebel against the command of Yahweh, then the hand of Yahweh will be against you, as it was against your fathers." 
1Samuel12:16 Even now, take your stand and see this great thing which Yahweh will do before your eyes." 
1Samuel12:17 Is it not the wheat harvest today? I will call to Yahweh, that He may send thunder and rain. Then you will know and see that your wickedness is great which you have done in the eyes of Yahweh by asking for yourselves a king.”" 
1Samuel12:18 So Samuel called to Yahweh, and Yahweh sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people greatly feared Yahweh and Samuel." 
1Samuel12:19 Then all the people said to Samuel, “Pray for your servants to Yahweh your God, so that we may not die, for we have added to all our sins this evil by asking for ourselves a king.”" 
1Samuel12:20 And Samuel said to the people, “Do not fear. You have committed all this evil, yet do not turn aside from following Yahweh, but serve Yahweh with all your heart." 
1Samuel12:21 And you must not turn aside, for then you would go after meaningless things which cannot profit and cannot deliver, because they are meaningless." 
1Samuel12:22 For Yahweh will not abandon His people on account of His great name, because Yahweh has been pleased to make you a people for Himself." 
1Samuel12:23 Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Yahweh by ceasing to pray for you; but I will instruct you in the good and upright way." 
1Samuel12:24 Only fear Yahweh and serve Him in truth with all your heart; for see what great things He has done for you. 
1Samuel12:25 But if you still do wickedly, both you and your king will be swept away.”" 
1Samuel13:1 Saul was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty-two years over Israel." 
1Samuel13:2 And Saul chose for himself 3,000 men of Israel, of which 2,000 were with Saul in Michmash and in the hill country of Bethel, while 1,000 were with Jonathan at Gibeah of Benjamin. But he sent away the rest of the people, each to his tent." 
1Samuel13:3 And Jonathan struck the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. Then Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, “Let the Hebrews hear.”" 
1Samuel13:4 Then all Israel heard the news that Saul had struck the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel had become odious to the Philistines. The people were then summoned to Saul at Gilgal." 
1Samuel13:5 Now the Philistines assembled to fight with Israel, 30,000 chariots and 6,000 horsemen and people like the sand which is on the seashore in abundance; and they came up and camped in Michmash, east of Beth-aven." 
1Samuel13:6 Now the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait (for the people were hard-pressed). Then the people hid themselves in caves, in thickets, in cliffs, in cellars, and in pits." 
1Samuel13:7 Also some of the Hebrews crossed the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. But as for Saul, he was still in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling." 
1Samuel13:8 So he waited seven days, according to the appointed time set by Samuel, but Samuel did not come to Gilgal; and the people were scattering from him." 
1Samuel13:9 So Saul said, “Bring near to me the burnt offering and the peace offerings.” And he offered the burnt offering." 
1Samuel13:10 And as soon as he finished offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him and to greet him." 
1Samuel13:11 But Samuel said, “What have you done?” And Saul said, “Because I saw that the people were scattering from me, and that you did not come within the appointed days, and that the Philistines were assembling at Michmash," 
1Samuel13:12 therefore I said, ‘Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not entreated the favor of Yahweh.’ So I forced myself and offered the burnt offering.”" 
1Samuel13:13 And Samuel said to Saul, “You have acted foolishly; you have not kept the commandment of Yahweh your God, which He commanded you, for now Yahweh would have established your kingdom over Israel forever." 
1Samuel13:14 But now your kingdom shall not endure. Yahweh has sought out for Himself a man after His own heart, and Yahweh has appointed him as ruler over His people because you have not kept what Yahweh commanded you.”" 
1Samuel13:15 Then Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people who were present with him, about six hundred men." 
1Samuel13:16 Now Saul and his son Jonathan and the people who were present with them were staying in Geba of Benjamin, and the Philistines camped at Michmash." 
1Samuel13:17 And the raiders came from the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned toward Ophrah, to the land of Shual," 
1Samuel13:18 and another company turned to the way of Beth-horon, and another company turned to the way of the border which overlooks the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness." 
1Samuel13:19 Now no blacksmith could be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, “Lest the Hebrews make swords or spears.”" 
1Samuel13:20 So all Israel went down to the Philistines, each to sharpen his plowshare, his mattock, his axe, and his goad." 
1Samuel13:21 And the charge was two-thirds of a shekel for the plowshares, the mattocks, the forks, and the axes, and to fix the goad." 
1Samuel13:22 So it happened on the day of battle that neither sword nor spear was found in the hands of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan, but they were found with Saul and his son Jonathan." 
1Samuel13:23 And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash. 
1Samuel14:1 Now the day came that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who was carrying his armor, “Come and let us cross over to the Philistines’ garrison that is on the other side.” But he did not tell his father." 
1Samuel14:2 And Saul was staying in the outskirts of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree which is in Migron. And the people who were with him were about six hundred men," 
1Samuel14:3 and Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod’s brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of Yahweh at Shiloh, was wearing an ephod. And the people did not know that Jonathan had gone." 
1Samuel14:4 Now between the passes by which Jonathan sought to cross over to the Philistines’ garrison, there was a sharp crag on the one side and a sharp crag on the other side, and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh." 
1Samuel14:5 The one crag rose on the north opposite Michmash, and the other on the south opposite Geba." 
1Samuel14:6 Then Jonathan said to the young man who was carrying his armor, “Come and let us cross over to the garrison of these uncircumcised; perhaps Yahweh will work for us, for Yahweh is not restrained to save by many or by few.”" 
1Samuel14:7 And his armor bearer said to him, “Do all that is in your heart; turn yourself, and here I am with you according to your heart.”" 
1Samuel14:8 Then Jonathan said, “Behold, we will cross over to the men and reveal ourselves to them." 
1Samuel14:9 If they say to us, ‘Wait until we come to you,’ then we will stand in our place and not go up to them." 
1Samuel14:10 But if they say, ‘Come up to us,’ then we will go up, for Yahweh has given them into our hands; and this shall be the sign to us.”" 
1Samuel14:11 So both of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, “Behold, Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have hidden themselves.”" 
1Samuel14:12 So the men of the garrison hailed Jonathan and his armor bearer and said, “Come up to us, and we will make you know something.” And Jonathan said to his armor bearer, “Come up after me, for Yahweh has given them into the hands of Israel.”" 
1Samuel14:13 Then Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet, with his armor bearer behind him; and they fell before Jonathan, and his armor bearer put some to death after him." 
1Samuel14:14 And that first slaughter which Jonathan and his armor bearer made was about twenty men within about half a furrow in an acre of land. 
1Samuel14:15 And there was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people. Even the garrison and the raiders trembled, and the earth quaked so that it became a great trembling." 
1Samuel14:16 Then Saul’s watchmen in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude melted away; and they went here and there." 
1Samuel14:17 So Saul said to the people who were with him, “Number now and see who has gone from us.” And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armor bearer were not there." 
1Samuel14:18 Then Saul said to Ahijah, “Bring the ark of God here.” For the ark of God was at that time with the sons of Israel." 
1Samuel14:19 And it happened that while Saul talked to the priest, the commotion in the camp of the Philistines continued and increased; so Saul said to the priest, “Withdraw your hand.”" 
1Samuel14:20 Then Saul and all the people who were with him rallied and came to the battle; and behold, every man’s sword was against his fellow, and there was very great confusion." 
1Samuel14:21 Now the Hebrews who were with the Philistines previously, who went up with them all around in the camp, even they also turned to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan." 
1Samuel14:22 Now all the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, and they pursued them closely in the battle." 
1Samuel14:23 So Yahweh saved Israel that day, and the battle spread beyond Beth-aven." 
1Samuel14:24 Now the men of Israel were hard-pressed on that day. And Saul had put the people under oath, saying, “Cursed be the man who eats food before evening and until I have avenged myself on my enemies.” So none of the people tasted food." 
1Samuel14:25 Now all the people of the land entered the forest, and there was honey on the ground." 
1Samuel14:26 So the people entered the forest, and behold, there was a flow of honey; but no man put his hand to his mouth, for the people feared the sworn oath." 
1Samuel14:27 But Jonathan had not heard when his father put the people under a sworn oath; therefore, he put out the end of the staff that was in his hand and dipped it in the honeycomb and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes brightened." 
1Samuel14:28 Then one of the people answered and said, “Your father strictly put the people under a sworn oath, saying, ‘Cursed be the man who eats food today.’” And the people were weary." 
1Samuel14:29 Then Jonathan said, “My father has troubled the land. See now, how my eyes have brightened because I tasted a little of this honey." 
1Samuel14:30 How much more, if only the people had eaten freely today of the spoil of their enemies which they found! For now the slaughter among the Philistines has not been great.”" 
1Samuel14:31 Then they struck among the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. And the people were very weary. 
1Samuel14:32 So the people rushed greedily upon the spoil, and they took sheep and oxen and calves and slaughtered them on the ground; and the people ate them with the blood." 
1Samuel14:33 Then they told Saul, saying, “Behold, the people are sinning against Yahweh by eating with the blood.” And he said, “You have acted treacherously; roll a great stone to me today.”" 
1Samuel14:34 And Saul said, “Scatter yourselves among the people and say to them, ‘Each one of you bring me his ox or his sheep, and slaughter it here and eat; and do not sin against Yahweh by eating with the blood.’” So all the people that night brought each one his ox with him and slaughtered it there." 
1Samuel14:35 And Saul built an altar to Yahweh; it was the first altar that he built to Yahweh. 
1Samuel14:36 Then Saul said, “Let us go down after the Philistines by night and take spoil among them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them.” And they said, “Do whatever seems good in your eyes.” So the priest said, “Let us draw near to God here.”" 
1Samuel14:37 And Saul asked of God, “Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will You give them into the hand of Israel?” But He did not answer him on that day." 
1Samuel14:38 And Saul said, “Draw near here, all you chiefs of the people, and know and see how this sin has happened today." 
1Samuel14:39 For as Yahweh lives, who saves Israel, though it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die.” But not one of all the people answered him." 
1Samuel14:40 Then he said to all Israel, “You shall be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side.” And the people said to Saul, “Do what seems good in your eyes.”" 
1Samuel14:41 Therefore, Saul said to Yahweh, the God of Israel, “Give a perfect lot.” And Jonathan and Saul were taken, but the people escaped." 
1Samuel14:42 And Saul said, “Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son.” And Jonathan was taken." 
1Samuel14:43 Then Saul said to Jonathan, “Tell me what you have done.” So Jonathan told him and said, “I indeed tasted a little honey with the end of the staff that was in my hand. Here I am; I must die!”" 
1Samuel14:44 And Saul said, “May God do this to me and more also, for you shall surely die, Jonathan.”" 
1Samuel14:45 But the people said to Saul, “Must Jonathan die, who has brought about this great salvation in Israel? Far from it! As Yahweh lives, not one hair of his head shall fall to the ground, for he has worked with God this day.” So the people redeemed Jonathan, and he did not die." 
1Samuel14:46 Then Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their own place." 
1Samuel14:47 Now Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, and he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, the sons of Ammon, Edom, the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines; and wherever he turned, he inflicted punishment." 
1Samuel14:48 And he acted valiantly and struck down the Amalekites and delivered Israel from the hands of those who plundered them. 
1Samuel14:49 Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan and Ishvi and Malchi-shua; and the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the firstborn Merab and the name of the younger Michal. 
1Samuel14:50 And the name of Saul’s wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. And the name of the commander of his army was Abner the son of Ner, Saul’s uncle." 
1Samuel14:51 And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel." 
1Samuel14:52 Now the war against the Philistines was severe all the days of Saul; and Saul would see any mighty man or any man of valor and would gather him to his staff. 
1Samuel15:1 Then Samuel said to Saul, “Yahweh sent me to anoint you as king over His people, over Israel; so now, obey the voice of the words of Yahweh." 
1Samuel15:2 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘I will punish Amalek for what he did to Israel, how he set himself against him on the way while he was coming up from Egypt." 
1Samuel15:3 Now go and strike Amalek and devote to destruction all that he has, and do not spare him; but put to death both man and woman, infant and nursing baby, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.’”" 
1Samuel15:4 Then Saul summoned the people and numbered them in Telaim, 200,000 foot soldiers and 10,000 men of Judah." 
1Samuel15:5 And Saul came to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the valley. 
1Samuel15:6 And Saul said to the Kenites, “Go, depart; go down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; you showed lovingkindness to all the sons of Israel when they came up from Egypt.” So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites." 
1Samuel15:7 So Saul struck the Amalekites, from Havilah as you go to Shur, which is east of Egypt." 
1Samuel15:8 And he seized Agag the king of the Amalekites alive and devoted to destruction all the people with the edge of the sword. 
1Samuel15:9 But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep, the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, and all that was good, and they were not willing to devote them to destruction; but everything despised and worthless, that they utterly destroyed." 
1Samuel15:10 Then the word of Yahweh came to Samuel, saying," 
1Samuel15:11 “I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned back from following Me and has not established My words.” And Samuel became angry and cried out to Yahweh all night." 
1Samuel15:12 Then Samuel rose early in the morning to meet Saul; and it was told to Samuel, saying, “Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself, then turned and proceeded on down to Gilgal.”" 
1Samuel15:13 And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, “Blessed are you of Yahweh! I have established the word of Yahweh.”" 
1Samuel15:14 But Samuel said, “What then is this sound of the sheep in my ears and the sound of the oxen which I am hearing?”" 
1Samuel15:15 And Saul said, “They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and oxen, to sacrifice to Yahweh your God; but the rest we have devoted to destruction.”" 
1Samuel15:16 Then Samuel said to Saul, “Wait, and let me tell you what Yahweh spoke to me last night.” And he said to him, “Speak!”" 
1Samuel15:17 And Samuel said, “Is it not true, though you were little in your own eyes, you were made the head of the tribes of Israel? And Yahweh anointed you king over Israel," 
1Samuel15:18 and Yahweh sent you on a mission and said, ‘Go and devote to destruction the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed.’" 
1Samuel15:19 Why then did you not obey the voice of Yahweh, but rushed upon the spoil and did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh?”" 
1Samuel15:20 Then Saul said to Samuel, “I did obey the voice of Yahweh and went on the way on which Yahweh sent me and have brought back Agag the king of Amalek and have devoted the Amalekites to destruction." 
1Samuel15:21 But the people took some of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the choicest of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to Yahweh your God at Gilgal.”" 
1Samuel15:22 And Samuel said, “Has Yahweh as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices As in obeying the voice of Yahweh? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, And to heed than the fat of rams." 
1Samuel15:23 For rebellion is as the sin of divination, And insubordination is as wickedness and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of Yahweh, He has also rejected you from being king.”" 
1Samuel15:24 Then Saul said to Samuel, “I have sinned; I have indeed trespassed against the command of Yahweh and your words because I feared the people and obeyed their voice." 
1Samuel15:25 So now, please forgive my sin and return with me, that I may worship Yahweh.”" 
1Samuel15:26 But Samuel said to Saul, “I will not return with you; for you have rejected the word of Yahweh, and Yahweh has rejected you from being king over Israel.”" 
1Samuel15:27 Then Samuel turned to go, but Saul seized the edge of his robe, and it tore." 
1Samuel15:28 So Samuel said to him, “Yahweh has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today and has given it to your neighbor, who is better than you." 
1Samuel15:29 Also the Eternal One of Israel will not lie or have regret; for He is not a man that He should have regret.” 
1Samuel15:30 Then he said, “I have sinned; but please honor me now before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship Yahweh your God.”" 
1Samuel15:31 So Samuel returned, following after Saul, and Saul worshiped Yahweh." 
1Samuel15:32 Then Samuel said, “Bring Agag near to me, the king of the Amalekites.” And Agag came to him in chains. And Agag said, “Surely the bitterness of death has departed.”" 
1Samuel15:33 But Samuel said, “As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless among women.” And Samuel hacked Agag to pieces before Yahweh at Gilgal." 
1Samuel15:34 Then Samuel went to Ramah, but Saul went up to his house at Gibeah of Saul." 
1Samuel15:35 So Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death; for Samuel grieved over Saul. And Yahweh regretted that He had made Saul king over Israel. 
1Samuel16:1 Then Yahweh said to Samuel, “How long will you be grieving over Saul? I have rejected him from being king over Israel. Fill your horn with oil and go; I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I see among his sons a king for Me.”" 
1Samuel16:2 But Samuel said, “How can I go? Saul will hear of it and will kill me.” Then Yahweh said, “Take a heifer with you and say, ‘I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh.’" 
1Samuel16:3 And you shall invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will make you know what you shall do; and you shall anoint for Me the one whom I say to you.”" 
1Samuel16:4 So Samuel did what Yahweh said and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the city came trembling to meet him and said, “Do you come in peace?”" 
1Samuel16:5 And he said, “In peace; I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh. Set yourselves apart as holy and come with me to the sacrifice.” He also set apart Jesse and his sons as holy and invited them to the sacrifice." 
1Samuel16:6 Now it happened, when they entered, he looked at Eliab and thought, “Surely the anointed of Yahweh is before Him.”" 
1Samuel16:7 But Yahweh said to Samuel, “Do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him; for God sees not as man sees, for man looks at the outward appearance, but Yahweh looks at the heart.”" 
1Samuel16:8 Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, “Yahweh has not chosen this one either.”" 
1Samuel16:9 Next Jesse made Shammah pass by. And he said, “Yahweh has not chosen this one either.”" 
1Samuel16:10 Thus Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. But Samuel said to Jesse, “Yahweh has not chosen these.”" 
1Samuel16:11 And Samuel said to Jesse, “Are these all the young men?” And he said, “There remains yet the youngest, and behold, he is shepherding the sheep.” Then Samuel said to Jesse, “Send and bring him, for we will not turn around until he comes here.”" 
1Samuel16:12 So he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, with beautiful eyes and a handsome appearance. And Yahweh said, “Arise, anoint him, for this is he.”" 
1Samuel16:13 Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers; and the Spirit of Yahweh came mightily upon David from that day forward. And Samuel arose and went to Ramah. 
1Samuel16:14 Now the Spirit of Yahweh departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Yahweh terrorized him." 
1Samuel16:15 Saul’s servants then said to him, “Behold now, an evil spirit from God is terrorizing you." 
1Samuel16:16 Let our lord now speak to your servants who are before you. Let them seek a man who is a skillful musician on the harp; and it shall be that when the evil spirit from God is on you, he shall play the harp with his hand, and you will be well.”" 
1Samuel16:17 So Saul said to his servants, “Provide for me now a man who can play well and bring him to me.”" 
1Samuel16:18 Then one of the young men answered and said, “Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite who is a skillful musician, a mighty man of valor, a warrior, one who is understanding in speech, and man of fine form; and Yahweh is with him.”" 
1Samuel16:19 So Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, “Send me your son David who is with the flock.”" 
1Samuel16:20 And Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread and a wineskin of wine and a young goat and sent them to Saul by David his son. 
1Samuel16:21 Then David came to Saul and stood before him; and Saul loved him greatly, and he became his armor bearer." 
1Samuel16:22 So Saul sent to Jesse, saying, “Let David now stand before me, for he has found favor in my sight.”" 
1Samuel16:23 Thus it happened that whenever the evil spirit from God came to Saul, David would take the harp and play it with his hand; and Saul would be refreshed and be well, and the evil spirit would depart from him." 
1Samuel17:1 Now the Philistines gathered their camps for battle; and they were gathered at Socoh which belongs to Judah, and they camped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephes-dammim." 
1Samuel17:2 But Saul and the men of Israel were gathered and camped in the valley of Elah and arranged themselves for battle to meet the Philistines. 
1Samuel17:3 Now the Philistines stood on the mountain on one side while Israel stood on the mountain on the other side, with the valley between them." 
1Samuel17:4 Then a champion came out from the camps of the Philistines named Goliath, from Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span." 
1Samuel17:5 And he had a bronze helmet on his head, and he was clothed with scale-armor, and the weight of that scale-armor was five thousand shekels of bronze." 
1Samuel17:6 He also had bronze greaves on his legs and a bronze javelin slung between his shoulders. 
1Samuel17:7 And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver’s beam, and the head of his spear weighed six hundred shekels of iron; his shield-carrier also walked before him." 
1Samuel17:8 And he stood and called out to the battle lines of Israel and said to them, “Why do you come out to arrange yourselves for battle? Am I not the Philistine and you slaves of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me." 
1Samuel17:9 If he is able to fight with me and strike me down, then we will become your slaves; but if I prevail against him and strike him down, then you shall become our slaves and serve us.”" 
1Samuel17:10 Again the Philistine said, “I openly reproach the battle lines of Israel this day; give me a man that we may fight together.”" 
1Samuel17:11 When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid." 
1Samuel17:12 Now David was the son of the Ephrathite of Bethlehem in Judah, whose name was Jesse, and he had eight sons. And Jesse was old in the days of Saul, advanced in years among men." 
1Samuel17:13 And the three older sons of Jesse had gone. They had gone after Saul to the battle. And the names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn, and the second to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah." 
1Samuel17:14 But David was the youngest. Now the three oldest had gone after Saul," 
1Samuel17:15 but David went back and forth from Saul to shepherd his father’s flock at Bethlehem. 
1Samuel17:16 Then the Philistine approached, morning and evening, for forty days and took his stand." 
1Samuel17:17 Then Jesse said to David his son, “Take now for your brothers an ephah of this roasted grain and these ten loaves and run to the camp to your brothers." 
1Samuel17:18 You shall also bring these ten cuts of cheese to the commander of their thousand, and look into the welfare of your brothers, and bring back a token from them." 
1Samuel17:19 And Saul and they and all the men of Israel are in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.”" 
1Samuel17:20 So David arose early in the morning and left the flock with a keeper and carried the supplies and went as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the circle of the camp while the military force was going out in battle lines shouting the war cry. 
1Samuel17:21 And Israel and the Philistines arranged themselves in battle lines, battle line against battle line." 
1Samuel17:22 Then David left his baggage in the care of the baggage keeper and ran to the battle line and entered in order to greet his brothers. 
1Samuel17:23 As he was speaking with them, behold, the champion, the Philistine from Gath named Goliath, was coming up from the battle lines of the Philistines, and he spoke these same words; and David heard them." 
1Samuel17:24 Now all the men of Israel saw the man, and they fled from him and were greatly afraid." 
1Samuel17:25 And the men of Israel said, “Have you seen this man who is coming up? Surely he is coming up to reproach Israel. And it will be that the king will enrich the man who strikes him down with great riches and will give him his daughter and make his father’s house free in Israel.”" 
1Samuel17:26 Then David spoke to the men who were standing by him, saying, “What will be done for the man who strikes down this Philistine and takes away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should reproach the battle lines of the living God?”" 
1Samuel17:27 And the people spoke to him in accord with this word, saying, “Thus it will be done for the man who strikes him down.”" 
1Samuel17:28 Then Eliab his oldest brother heard when he spoke to the men; and Eliab’s anger burned against David, and he said, “Why have you come down? And with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I myself know your arrogance and the wickedness of your heart, for you have come down in order to see the battle.”" 
1Samuel17:29 But David said, “What have I done now? Was it not just a word?”" 
1Samuel17:30 Then he turned away from him to another and said the same word; and the people responded to him with the same word as before. 
1Samuel17:31 Then the words which David spoke were heard. And they told them to Saul, and he sent for him." 
1Samuel17:32 And David said to Saul, “Let no man’s heart fail on account of him; your servant will go and fight with this Philistine.”" 
1Samuel17:33 Then Saul said to David, “You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him; for you are but a youth while he has been a warrior from his youth.”" 
1Samuel17:34 But David said to Saul, “Your servant was shepherding his father’s sheep. And a lion and a bear would come and take a lamb from the flock," 
1Samuel17:35 and I would go out after it and strike it and rescue the lamb from its mouth. Then it rose up against me, and I would seize it by its beard and strike it down and put it to death." 
1Samuel17:36 Your servant has struck down both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, since he has reproached the battle lines of the living God.”" 
1Samuel17:37 And David said, “Yahweh, who delivered me from the hand of the lion and from the hand of the bear, He will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine.” And Saul said to David, “Go, and may Yahweh be with you.”" 
1Samuel17:38 Then Saul clothed David with his robes and put a bronze helmet on his head, and he clothed him with armor." 
1Samuel17:39 And David girded his sword over his armor and tried to walk, for he had not tested them. So David said to Saul, “I cannot go with these, for I have not tested them.” And David took them off." 
1Samuel17:40 Then he took his stick in his hand and chose for himself five smooth stones from the brook and put them in the shepherd’s bag which he had, even in his pouch, and his sling was in his hand; and he approached the Philistine." 
1Samuel17:41 Then the Philistine came on and drew near to David, with the shield-bearer in front of him." 
1Samuel17:42 And the Philistine looked and saw David. And he despised him; for he was but a youth and ruddy, with a handsome appearance." 
1Samuel17:43 And the Philistine said to David, “Am I a dog, that you come to me with sticks?” And the Philistine cursed David by his gods." 
1Samuel17:44 The Philistine also said to David, “Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the sky and the beasts of the field.”" 
1Samuel17:45 Then David said to the Philistine, “You come to me with a sword, a spear, and a javelin, but I come to you in the name of Yahweh of hosts, the God of the battle lines of Israel, whom you have reproached." 
1Samuel17:46 This day Yahweh will deliver you up into my hands, and I will strike you down and remove your head from you. And I will give the dead bodies of the camp of the Philistines this day to the birds of the sky and the beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel," 
1Samuel17:47 and that all this assembly may know that Yahweh does not save by sword or by spear; for the battle is Yahweh’s, and He will give you into our hands.”" 
1Samuel17:48 Then it happened when the Philistine rose and came and drew near to meet David, that David ran quickly toward the battle line to meet the Philistine." 
1Samuel17:49 And David sent his hand down into his bag and took from it a stone and slung it and struck the Philistine on his forehead. And the stone sank into his forehead, so that he fell on his face to the ground." 
1Samuel17:50 Thus David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and a stone, and he struck the Philistine and put him to death; but there was no sword in David’s hand." 
1Samuel17:51 Then David ran and stood over the Philistine and took his sword and drew it out of its sheath and put him to death and cut off his head with it. Then the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, so they fled." 
1Samuel17:52 But the men of Israel and Judah arose and shouted and pursued the Philistines as far as the valley and to the gates of Ekron. And the slain Philistines lay fallen along the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath and Ekron." 
1Samuel17:53 Then the sons of Israel returned from hotly pursuing the Philistines and plundered their camps. 
1Samuel17:54 And David took the Philistine’s head and brought it to Jerusalem, but he put his weapons in his tent." 
1Samuel17:55 Now when Saul saw David going out to meet the Philistine, he said to Abner the commander of the army, “Abner, whose son is this young man?” And Abner said, “By your life, O king, I do not know.”" 
1Samuel17:56 And the king said, “You inquire whose son the youth is.”" 
1Samuel17:57 So when David returned from striking down the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul with the Philistine’s head in his hand." 
1Samuel17:58 And Saul said to him, “Whose son are you, young man?” And David answered, “I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.”" 
1Samuel18:1 Now it happened when he had finished speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul." 
1Samuel18:2 And Saul took him that day and did not let him return to his father’s house. 
1Samuel18:3 Then Jonathan cut a covenant with David because he loved him as his own soul. 
1Samuel18:4 And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, with his armor, even his sword and his bow and his belt." 
1Samuel18:5 So David went out wherever Saul sent him and prospered; and Saul set him over the men of war. And it was pleasing in the eyes of all the people and also in the eyes of Saul’s servants. 
1Samuel18:6 And it happened as they were coming, when David returned from striking down the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul, with tambourines, with gladness, and with musical instruments." 
1Samuel18:7 And the women sang as they were merry and said, “Saul has struck his thousands, And David his ten thousands.”" 
1Samuel18:8 Then Saul became very angry, for this saying was displeasing in his eyes; and he said, “They have ascribed to David ten thousands, but to me they have ascribed thousands. Now what more can he have but the kingdom?”" 
1Samuel18:9 So Saul looked at David with suspicion from that day on. 
1Samuel18:10 Now it happened on the next day that an evil spirit from God came mightily upon Saul, and he raved in the midst of the house. Now David was playing the harp with his hand, as usual; and a spear was in Saul’s hand." 
1Samuel18:11 Then Saul hurled the spear for he thought, “I will pin David to the wall.” But David escaped from his presence twice." 
1Samuel18:12 And Saul was afraid of David, for Yahweh was with him but had turned away from Saul." 
1Samuel18:13 Therefore Saul turned him away from his presence and appointed him as his commander of one thousand; and he went out and came in before the people. 
1Samuel18:14 And David was prospering in all his ways, and Yahweh was with him." 
1Samuel18:15 Then Saul saw that he was prospering greatly, so he dreaded him." 
1Samuel18:16 But all Israel and Judah loved David, for he went out and came in before them." 
1Samuel18:17 Then Saul said to David, “Here is my older daughter Merab; I will give her to you as a wife; only be a man of valor for me and fight Yahweh’s battles.” For Saul thought, “My hand shall not be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him.”" 
1Samuel18:18 But David said to Saul, “Who am I, and what is my life or my father’s family in Israel, that I should be the king’s son-in-law?”" 
1Samuel18:19 So it happened at the time when Merab, Saul’s daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite as a wife." 
1Samuel18:20 And Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved David. So they told Saul, and the thing was right in his eyes." 
1Samuel18:21 And Saul said, “I will give her to him that she may become a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him.” Therefore Saul said to David, “For a second time you may be my son-in-law today.”" 
1Samuel18:22 Then Saul commanded his servants, “Speak to David secretly, saying, ‘Behold, the king delights in you, and all his servants love you; so now, become the king’s son-in-law.’”" 
1Samuel18:23 So Saul’s servants spoke these words in David’s hearing. But David said, “Is it trivial in your eyes to become the king’s son-in-law, since I am a poor man and lightly esteemed?”" 
1Samuel18:24 And the servants of Saul told to him according to these words which David spoke. 
1Samuel18:25 Saul then said, “Thus you shall say to David, ‘The king does not desire any dowry except one hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to take vengeance on the king’s enemies.’” Now Saul planned to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines." 
1Samuel18:26 Then his servants told David these words, and it was right in the eyes of David to become the king’s son-in-law. So before the days had expired," 
1Samuel18:27 David rose up and went, he and his men, and struck down two hundred men among the Philistines. Then David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king, that he might become the king’s son-in-law. So Saul gave him Michal his daughter as a wife." 
1Samuel18:28 Then Saul saw and knew that Yahweh was with David, and that Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved him," 
1Samuel18:29 so Saul was even more afraid of David. So Saul was David’s enemy continually. 
1Samuel18:30 Then the commanders of the Philistines went out to battle, and it happened as often as they went out, that David behaved himself more insightfully than all the servants of Saul. So his name was highly esteemed." 
1Samuel19:1 Then Saul spoke with Jonathan his son and all his servants to put David to death. But Jonathan, Saul’s son, greatly delighted in David." 
1Samuel19:2 So Jonathan told David saying, “Saul my father is seeking to put you to death. So now, please be careful in the morning, and stay in a secret place and hide yourself." 
1Samuel19:3 And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are, and I will speak with my father about you; what I perceive, I will tell you.”" 
1Samuel19:4 Then Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him, “Do not let the king sin against his servant David, since he has not sinned against you, and since his works have been very good for you." 
1Samuel19:5 For he took his life in his hand and struck the Philistine, and Yahweh brought about a great salvation for all Israel; you saw it and were glad. Why then will you sin against innocent blood by putting David to death without a cause?”" 
1Samuel19:6 And Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan, and Saul swore, “As Yahweh lives, he shall not be put to death.”" 
1Samuel19:7 Then Jonathan called David, and Jonathan told him all these words. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as formerly." 
1Samuel19:8 Then there was war again. And David went out and fought with the Philistines and struck them with a great slaughter, so that they fled before him." 
1Samuel19:9 Now there was an evil spirit from Yahweh on Saul as he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand, and David was playing the harp with his hand." 
1Samuel19:10 And Saul tried to pin David to the wall with the spear, but he slipped away out of Saul’s presence, so that he stuck the spear into the wall. And David fled and escaped that night." 
1Samuel19:11 Then Saul sent messengers to David’s house to keep watch over him, in order to put him to death in the morning. But Michal, David’s wife, told him, saying, “If you do not make an escape for your life tonight, tomorrow you will be put to death.”" 
1Samuel19:12 So Michal let David down through a window, and he went out and fled and escaped." 
1Samuel19:13 Then Michal took the household idol and laid it on the bed and put a quilt of goats’ hair at its head and covered it with clothes. 
1Samuel19:14 Then Saul sent messengers to take David, but she said, “He is sick.”" 
1Samuel19:15 So Saul sent messengers to see David, saying, “Bring him up to me on his bed, that I may put him to death.”" 
1Samuel19:16 The messengers came, and behold, the household idol was on the bed with the quilt of goats’ hair at its head." 
1Samuel19:17 So Saul said to Michal, “Why have you deceived me like this and let my enemy go, so that he has escaped?” And Michal said to Saul, “He said to me, ‘Let me go! Why should I put you to death?’”" 
1Samuel19:18 Now David fled and escaped and came to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and stayed in Naioth. 
1Samuel19:19 And it was told to Saul, saying, “Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah.”" 
1Samuel19:20 Then Saul sent messengers to take David, but they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, with Samuel standing and presiding over them. And the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul; and they also prophesied." 
1Samuel19:21 This was told to Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. So Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied." 
1Samuel19:22 Then he himself went to Ramah and came as far as the large well that is in Secu; and he asked and said, “Where are Samuel and David?” And someone said, “Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah.”" 
1Samuel19:23 So he went there, to Naioth in Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him also, so that he went along prophesying continually until he came to Naioth in Ramah." 
1Samuel19:24 He also stripped off his clothes, and he too prophesied before Samuel and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Therefore they say, “Is Saul also among the prophets?”" 
1Samuel20:1 Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah and came and said before Jonathan, “What have I done? What is my iniquity? And what is my sin before your father, that he is seeking my life?”" 
1Samuel20:2 And he said to him, “Far from it, you shall not die. Behold, my father does nothing either great or small without revealing it in my ear. So why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so!”" 
1Samuel20:3 Yet David swore again, saying, “Your father knows well that I have found favor in your sight, and he has said, ‘Do not let Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved.’ But truly as Yahweh lives and as your soul lives, there is hardly a step between me and death.”" 
1Samuel20:4 Then Jonathan said to David, “Whatever your soul says, I will do for you.”" 
1Samuel20:5 So David said to Jonathan, “Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I ought to sit down to eat with the king. But let me go, that I may hide myself in the field until the third evening." 
1Samuel20:6 If your father misses me at all, then say, ‘David earnestly asked leave of me to run to Bethlehem his city because it is the yearly sacrifice there for the whole family.’" 
1Samuel20:7 If he says, ‘It is good,’ your servant will have peace; but if he is very angry, know that he has decided on evil." 
1Samuel20:8 Therefore show lovingkindness to your servant, for you have brought your servant into a covenant of Yahweh with you. But if there is iniquity in me, put me to death yourself; for why then should you bring me to your father?”" 
1Samuel20:9 And Jonathan said, “Far be it from you! For if I should indeed come to know that evil has been decided by my father to come upon you, then would I not tell you about it?”" 
1Samuel20:10 Then David said to Jonathan, “Who will tell me if your father answers you harshly?”" 
1Samuel20:11 And Jonathan said to David, “Come, and let us go out into the field.” So both of them went out to the field." 
1Samuel20:12 Then Jonathan said to David, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, be witness! When I have examined my father about this time tomorrow, or the third day, behold, if there is good feeling toward David, shall I not then send to you and reveal it in your ear?" 
1Samuel20:13 If it please my father to do you harm, may Yahweh do so to Jonathan and more also, if I do not reveal it in your ear and send you away, that you may go in peace. And may Yahweh be with you as He has been with my father." 
1Samuel20:14 And if I am still alive, will you not show me the lovingkindness of Yahweh, that I may not die?" 
1Samuel20:15 You shall not cut off your lovingkindness from my house forever, not even when Yahweh cuts off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth.”" 
1Samuel20:16 So Jonathan cut a covenant with the house of David, saying, “May Yahweh require it at the hands of David’s enemies.”" 
1Samuel20:17 And Jonathan made David swear again because of his love for him, because he loved him as he loved his own soul." 
1Samuel20:18 Then Jonathan said to him, “Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be missed because your seat will be missing." 
1Samuel20:19 When you have stayed for three days, you shall go down quickly and come to the place where you hid yourself on that eventful day, and you shall remain by the stone Ezel." 
1Samuel20:20 And I will shoot three arrows to the side, as though I sent them towards a target." 
1Samuel20:21 And behold, I will send the young man, saying, ‘Go, find the arrows.’ If I specifically say to the young man, ‘Behold, the arrows are on this side of you, get them,’ then come, for there is peace for you and no harm, as Yahweh lives." 
1Samuel20:22 But if I say to the youth, ‘Behold, the arrows are beyond you,’ go, for Yahweh has sent you away." 
1Samuel20:23 As for the agreement of which you and I have spoken, behold, Yahweh is between you and me forever.”" 
1Samuel20:24 So David hid in the field; and when the new moon came, the king sat down to eat food." 
1Samuel20:25 And the king sat on his seat as usual, the seat by the wall; then Jonathan rose up, and Abner sat down by Saul’s side, but David’s place was missing." 
1Samuel20:26 Nevertheless Saul did not speak anything that day, for he said, “It is an accident; he is not clean; surely he is not clean.”" 
1Samuel20:27 Now it happened the next day, the second day of the new moon, that David’s place was missing; so Saul said to Jonathan his son, “Why has the son of Jesse not come to the meal, either yesterday or today?”" 
1Samuel20:28 Jonathan then answered Saul, “David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem," 
1Samuel20:29 and he said, ‘Please send me on my way, since our family has a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commanded me to attend. So now, if I have found favor in your sight, please let me get away that I may see my brothers.’ For this reason he has not come to the king’s table.”" 
1Samuel20:30 Then Saul’s anger burned against Jonathan, and he said to him, “You son of a perverse, rebellious woman! Do I not know that you are choosing the son of Jesse to your own shame and to the shame of your mother’s nakedness?" 
1Samuel20:31 For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, neither you nor your kingdom will be established. So now, send and bring him to me, for he must surely die.”" 
1Samuel20:32 But Jonathan answered Saul his father and said to him, “Why should he be put to death? What has he done?”" 
1Samuel20:33 Then Saul hurled his spear at him to strike him down; so Jonathan knew that his father had decided to put David to death. 
1Samuel20:34 Then Jonathan arose from the table in burning anger and did not eat food on the second day of the new moon, for he was grieved over David because his father had dishonored him." 
1Samuel20:35 Now it happened in the morning that Jonathan went out into the field for the appointment with David, and a very young man was with him." 
1Samuel20:36 And he said to his young man, “Run, find now the arrows which I am about to shoot.” As the young man was running, he shot an arrow past him." 
1Samuel20:37 When the young man reached the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called after the lad and said, “Is not the arrow beyond you?”" 
1Samuel20:38 And Jonathan called after the young man, “Hurry, be quick, do not stay!” And Jonathan’s young man gathered up the arrow and came to his master." 
1Samuel20:39 But the young man did not know of anything; only Jonathan and David knew about the matter. 
1Samuel20:40 Then Jonathan gave his weapons to his young man and said to him, “Go, bring them to the city.”" 
1Samuel20:41 When the young man was gone, David rose from the south side and fell on his face to the ground and bowed three times. And they kissed each other and wept together, but David wept more." 
1Samuel20:42 And Jonathan said to David, “Go in peace, inasmuch as we have sworn to each other in the name of Yahweh, saying, ‘Yahweh will be between me and you, and between my seed and your seed forever.’” Then he rose and departed, while Jonathan went into the city." 
1Samuel21:1 Then David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest; and Ahimelech came trembling to meet David and said to him, “Why are you alone, and no one is with you?”" 
1Samuel21:2 And David said to Ahimelech the priest, “The king has commanded me with a matter and has said to me, ‘Let no one know anything about the matter on which I am sending you and with which I have commanded you; and I have directed the young men to a certain place.’" 
1Samuel21:3 So now, what do you have on hand? Give five loaves of bread into my hand, or whatever can be found.”" 
1Samuel21:4 And the priest answered David and said, “There is no ordinary bread on hand, but there is consecrated bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.”" 
1Samuel21:5 And David answered the priest and said to him, “Surely women have been kept from us as previously when I set out and the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was an ordinary journey; how much more then today will their vessels be holy?”" 
1Samuel21:6 So the priest gave him consecrated bread; for there was no bread there but the bread of the Presence which was removed from before Yahweh, in order to put hot bread in its place when it was taken away." 
1Samuel21:7 Now one of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Yahweh; and his name was Doeg the Edomite, the chief of Saul’s shepherds." 
1Samuel21:8 And David said to Ahimelech, “Now is there not a spear or a sword on hand? For I brought neither my sword nor my weapons in my hand because the king’s matter was urgent.”" 
1Samuel21:9 Then the priest said, “The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you struck down in the valley of Elah, behold, it is wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod; if you would take it for yourself, take it. For there is no other except it here.” And David said, “There is none like it; give it to me.”" 
1Samuel21:10 Then David arose and fled that day from Saul and went to Achish king of Gath. 
1Samuel21:11 But the servants of Achish said to him, “Is this not David the king of the land? Did they not sing of this one as they danced, saying, ‘Saul has struck his thousands, And David his ten thousands’?”" 
1Samuel21:12 And David took these words to heart and greatly feared Achish king of Gath. 
1Samuel21:13 So he disguised his sanity in their sight and acted insanely in their hands and scribbled on the doors of the gate and let his saliva run down into his beard. 
1Samuel21:14 Then Achish said to his servants, “Behold, you see the man behaving as a madman. Why do you bring him to me?" 
1Samuel21:15 Do I lack madmen, that you have brought this one to act the madman before me? Shall this one come into my house?”" 
1Samuel22:1 So David departed from there and escaped to the cave of Adullam; and his brothers and all his father’s household heard of it and went down there to him. 
1Samuel22:2 Then everyone who was in distress, and everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was bitter of soul, gathered to him; and he became a commander over them. Now there were about four hundred men with him." 
1Samuel22:3 And David went from there to Mizpah of Moab; and he said to the king of Moab, “Please let my father and my mother come and stay with you until I know what God will do for me.”" 
1Samuel22:4 Then he left them with the king of Moab; and they stayed with him all the time that David was in the fortress. 
1Samuel22:5 And the prophet Gad said to David, “Do not stay in the fortress; go, and enter into the land of Judah.” So David went and entered into the forest of Hereth." 
1Samuel22:6 Then Saul heard that David and the men who were with him had been discovered. Now Saul was sitting in Gibeah, under the tamarisk tree on the height with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing around him." 
1Samuel22:7 And Saul said to his servants who were standing around him, “Hear now, O Benjamites! Will the son of Jesse also give to all of you fields and vineyards? Will he make you all commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds?" 
1Samuel22:8 For all of you have conspired against me so that there is no one who reveals in my ear when my son cuts a covenant with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you who is sorry for me or reveals in my ear that my son has caused my servant to rise up against me to lie in ambush, as it is this day.”" 
1Samuel22:9 Then Doeg the Edomite, who was standing by the servants of Saul, said, “I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub." 
1Samuel22:10 And he asked of Yahweh for him, gave him provisions, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.”" 
1Samuel22:11 Then the king sent someone to summon Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father’s household, the priests who were in Nob; and all of them came to the king." 
1Samuel22:12 And Saul said, “Listen now, son of Ahitub.” And he answered, “Here I am, my lord.”" 
1Samuel22:13 Saul then said to him, “Why have you and the son of Jesse conspired against me, in that you have given him bread and a sword and have asked of God on his behalf, so that he would rise up against me by lying in ambush as it is this day?”" 
1Samuel22:14 Then Ahimelech answered the king and said, “And who among all your servants is as faithful as David, even the king’s son-in-law, who is captain over your guard, and is honored in your house?" 
1Samuel22:15 Did I just begin to ask of God on his behalf today? Far be it from me! Do not let the king impute anything to his servant or to any of the household of my father, for your servant knows nothing small or great of this whole affair.”" 
1Samuel22:16 But the king said, “You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you and all your father’s household!”" 
1Samuel22:17 And the king said to the guards who were standing by him, “Turn around and put the priests of Yahweh to death because their hand also is with David and because they knew that he was fleeing and did not reveal it in my ears.” But the servants of the king were not willing to send forth their hands to fall upon the priests of Yahweh." 
1Samuel22:18 Then the king said to Doeg, “You turn around and attack the priests.” And Doeg the Edomite turned around and attacked the priests, and he put to death that day eighty-five men who wore the linen ephod." 
1Samuel22:19 So he struck Nob the city of the priests with the edge of the sword, both men and women, infants and nursing babies; also oxen, donkeys, and sheep he struck with the edge of the sword." 
1Samuel22:20 But one son of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped and fled after David." 
1Samuel22:21 And Abiathar told David that Saul had killed the priests of Yahweh. 
1Samuel22:22 Then David said to Abiathar, “I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul. It is I who have turned against every person in your father’s household." 
1Samuel22:23 Stay with me; do not be afraid, for he who seeks my life seeks your life, for you are safe with me.”" 
1Samuel23:1 Then they told David, saying, “Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah and are pillaging the threshing floors.”" 
1Samuel23:2 So David asked of Yahweh, saying, “Shall I go and strike these Philistines?” And Yahweh said to David, “Go and strike the Philistines and save Keilah.”" 
1Samuel23:3 But David’s men said to him, “Behold, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we go to Keilah against the battle lines of the Philistines?”" 
1Samuel23:4 Then David asked of Yahweh once more. And Yahweh answered him and said, “Arise, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hand.”" 
1Samuel23:5 So David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines; and he led away their livestock and struck them with a great slaughter. Thus David saved the inhabitants of Keilah. 
1Samuel23:6 Now it happened when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David at Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand." 
1Samuel23:7 Then it was told to Saul that David had come to Keilah, so Saul said, “God has delivered him into my hand, for he shut himself in by entering a city with double gates and bars.”" 
1Samuel23:8 Then Saul summoned all the people for battle, to go down to Keilah to besiege David and his men." 
1Samuel23:9 But David knew that Saul was plotting evil against him; so he said to Abiathar the priest, “Bring the ephod here.”" 
1Samuel23:10 Then David said, “O Yahweh, the God of Israel, Your slave has heard for certain that Saul is seeking to come to Keilah to make the city a ruin on my account." 
1Samuel23:11 Will the men of Keilah surrender me into his hand? Will Saul come down just as Your slave has heard? O Yahweh, the God of Israel, I pray, tell Your slave.” And Yahweh said, “He will come down.”" 
1Samuel23:12 Then David said, “Will the men of Keilah surrender me and my men into the hand of Saul?” And Yahweh said, “They will surrender you.”" 
1Samuel23:13 Then David and his men, about six hundred, arose and departed from Keilah, and they went wherever they could go. Now it was told to Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, so he ceased going out in pursuit." 
1Samuel23:14 And David stayed in the wilderness in the strongholds and remained in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not give him into his hand." 
1Samuel23:15 Then David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. Now David was in the wilderness of Ziph at Horesh. 
1Samuel23:16 So Jonathan, Saul’s son, arose and went to David at Horesh and strengthened his hand in God." 
1Samuel23:17 And he said to him, “Do not be afraid, because the hand of Saul my father will not find you, and you will be king over Israel, and I will be second to you; and Saul my father knows that also.”" 
1Samuel23:18 So the two of them cut a covenant before Yahweh; and David stayed at Horesh while Jonathan went to his house. 
1Samuel23:19 Then Ziphites came up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, “Is David not hiding with us in the strongholds at Horesh, on the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon?" 
1Samuel23:20 So now, O king, according to all the desire of your soul to come down, come down here; and our part shall be to surrender him into the king’s hand.”" 
1Samuel23:21 And Saul said, “May you be blessed of Yahweh, for you have had compassion on me." 
1Samuel23:22 Go now, make more sure, and know and see his place—where his very foot is—and who has seen him there; for I am told that he is very crafty." 
1Samuel23:23 So see and know about all the hiding places where he hides himself and return to me with certainty, and I will go with you; and if he is in the land, I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah.”" 
1Samuel23:24 Then they arose and went to Ziph before Saul. Now David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah to the south of Jeshimon." 
1Samuel23:25 So Saul and his men went to seek him, and they told David, and he came down to the rock and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard it and pursued David in the wilderness of Maon." 
1Samuel23:26 And Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain; and David was hurrying to get away from Saul, but Saul and his men were surrounding David and his men to seize them." 
1Samuel23:27 But a messenger came to Saul, saying, “Hurry and come, for the Philistines have made a raid on the land.”" 
1Samuel23:28 So Saul returned from pursuing David and went to meet the Philistines; therefore they called that place the Rock of Escape. 
1Samuel23:29 Then David went up from there and stayed in the strongholds of Engedi. 
1Samuel24:1 Now when Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, he was told, saying, “Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.”" 
1Samuel24:2 Then Saul took three thousand chosen men from all Israel and went to seek David and his men in front of the Rocks of the Wild Goats. 
1Samuel24:3 And he came to the sheepfolds on the way, where there was a cave; and Saul went in to relieve himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the inner recesses of the cave." 
1Samuel24:4 Then the men of David said to him, “Behold, this is the day of which Yahweh said to you, ‘Behold, I am about to give your enemy into your hand, and you shall do to him as it seems good in your eyes.’” Then David arose and cut off the edge of Saul’s robe secretly." 
1Samuel24:5 And it happened afterward that David’s heart struck him because he had cut off the edge of Saul’s robe. 
1Samuel24:6 So he said to his men, “Far be it from me because of Yahweh that I should do this thing to my lord, the anointed of Yahweh, to send forth my hand against him, since he is the anointed of Yahweh.”" 
1Samuel24:7 And David tore his men to pieces with these words and did not allow them to rise up against Saul. And Saul arose, left the cave, and went on his way." 
1Samuel24:8 Now afterward David arose and went out of the cave and called after Saul, saying, “My lord the king!” And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the ground and prostrated himself." 
1Samuel24:9 And David said to Saul, “Why do you listen to the words of men, saying, ‘Behold, David seeks to do you evil’?" 
1Samuel24:10 Behold, this day your eyes have seen that Yahweh had given you today into my hand in the cave, and some said to kill you, but my eye had pity on you; and I said, ‘I will not send forth my hand against my lord, for he is the anointed of Yahweh.’" 
1Samuel24:11 Now, my father, see! Indeed, see the edge of your robe in my hand! For in that I cut off the edge of your robe and did not kill you, know and see that there is no evil or transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against you, though you are lying in wait for my life to take it." 
1Samuel24:12 May Yahweh judge between you and me, and may Yahweh avenge me on you; but my hand shall not be against you." 
1Samuel24:13 As the proverb of the ancients says, ‘Out of the wicked comes forth wickedness’; but my hand shall not be against you." 
1Samuel24:14 After whom has the king of Israel come out? Whom are you pursuing? After a dead dog, after a single flea?" 
1Samuel24:15 Therefore Yahweh be judge and execute justice between you and me; and may He see and plead my cause and execute justice for me to escape from your hand.” 
1Samuel24:16 Now it happened that when David had finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” Then Saul lifted up his voice and wept." 
1Samuel24:17 And he said to David, “You are more righteous than I; for you have dealt well with me, while I have dealt evil with you." 
1Samuel24:18 And you have declared today that you have done good to me, that Yahweh surrendered me into your hand, and yet you did not kill me." 
1Samuel24:19 For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away safely? May Yahweh therefore reward you with good in return for what you have done to me this day." 
1Samuel24:20 So now, behold, I know that you will surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hand." 
1Samuel24:21 So now swear to me by Yahweh that you will not cut off my seed after me and that you will not destroy my name from my father’s household.” 
1Samuel24:22 So David swore to Saul. And Saul went to his home, but David and his men went up to the fortress." 
1Samuel25:1 Then Samuel died; and all Israel gathered together and lamented for him and buried him at his house in Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran. 
1Samuel25:2 Now there was a man in Maon whose work was in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and one thousand goats. And it happened, while he was shearing his sheep in Carmel" 
1Samuel25:3 (now the man’s name was Nabal, and his wife’s name was Abigail. And the woman was good in insight and beautiful in appearance, but the man was harsh and evil in his dealings, and he was a Calebite)," 
1Samuel25:4 that David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep. 
1Samuel25:5 So David sent ten young men; and David said to the young men, “Go up to Carmel, come to Nabal, and greet him in my name;" 
1Samuel25:6 and thus you shall say, ‘Have a long life; peace be to you, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that you have." 
1Samuel25:7 So now I have heard that you have shearers; now your shepherds have been with us; and we have not dishonored them, nor have they missed anything all the days they were in Carmel." 
1Samuel25:8 Ask your young men, and they will tell you. Therefore let my young men find favor in your eyes, for we have come on a festive day. Please give whatever you find at hand to your servants and to your son, to David.’”" 
1Samuel25:9 Then David’s young men came and spoke to Nabal according to all these words in David’s name. Then they waited. 
1Samuel25:10 But Nabal answered David’s servants and said, “Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There are many servants today who are each breaking away from his master." 
1Samuel25:11 Shall I then take my bread and my water and my meat that I have slaughtered for my shearers, and give it to men whose origin I do not know?”" 
1Samuel25:12 So David’s young men went back on their way and returned; and they came and told him according to all these words. 
1Samuel25:13 Then David said to his men, “Each of you gird on his sword.” So each man girded on his sword. And David also girded on his sword, and about four hundred men went up behind David, and two hundred stayed with the baggage." 
1Samuel25:14 But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal’s wife, saying, “Behold, David sent messengers from the wilderness to greet our master, and he rushed at them angrily." 
1Samuel25:15 Yet the men were very good to us, and we were not dishonored, nor did we miss anything as long as we went about with them, while we were in the field." 
1Samuel25:16 They were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the time we were with them shepherding the sheep." 
1Samuel25:17 So now, know and see what you should do, for evil is decided against our master and against all his household; and he is such a vile man that no one can speak to him.”" 
1Samuel25:18 Then Abigail hurried and took two hundred loaves of bread and two jugs of wine and five sheep already prepared and five seahs of roasted grain and one hundred clusters of raisins and two hundred cakes of figs, and loaded them on donkeys." 
1Samuel25:19 Then she said to her young men, “Go on before me; behold, I am coming after you.” But she did not tell her husband Nabal." 
1Samuel25:20 So it was happening, as she was riding on her donkey and coming down by the hidden part of the mountain, that behold, David and his men were coming down toward her; and she met them." 
1Samuel25:21 Now David had said, “Surely for a lie I have guarded all that this man has in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that belonged to him; and he has returned me evil for good." 
1Samuel25:22 May God do so to the enemies of David, and more also, if by morning I leave as much as one male of any who belong to him.”" 
1Samuel25:23 Then Abigail saw David; so she hurried and dismounted from her donkey and fell on her face before David and bowed herself to the ground. 
1Samuel25:24 And she fell at his feet and said, “On me alone, my lord, be the blame. And please let your maidservant speak in your ears, and listen to the words of your maidservant." 
1Samuel25:25 Please do not let my lord pay attention to this vile man, Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and wicked foolishness is with him; but I your maidservant did not see the young men of my lord whom you sent." 
1Samuel25:26 “So now, my lord, as Yahweh lives and as your soul lives, since Yahweh has restrained you from shedding blood, and from saving yourself by your own hand, so now, let your enemies and those who seek evil against my lord, be as Nabal." 
1Samuel25:27 So now let this gift which your servant-woman has brought to my lord be given to the young men who went about with my lord. 
1Samuel25:28 Please forgive the transgression of your maidservant; for Yahweh will certainly make for my lord an enduring house because my lord is fighting the battles of Yahweh, and evil will not be found in you all your days." 
1Samuel25:29 And should anyone rise up to pursue you and to seek your life, then the life of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of the living with Yahweh your God; but the lives of your enemies He will sling out as from the hollow of a sling." 
1Samuel25:30 And it will be that when Yahweh does for my lord according to all the good that He has spoken concerning you, and appoints you ruler over Israel," 
1Samuel25:31 then this will not cause stumbling or a troubled heart to my lord, both by having shed blood without cause and by my lord having saved himself. When Yahweh deals well with my lord, then remember your maidservant.”" 
1Samuel25:32 Then David said to Abigail, “Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet me," 
1Samuel25:33 and blessed be your discernment, and blessed be you, who have kept me this day from bloodshed and from saving myself by my own hand." 
1Samuel25:34 Nevertheless, as Yahweh, the God of Israel, lives, who has restrained me from harming you, unless you had hurried and come to meet me, surely there would not have been left to Nabal until the morning light as much as one male.”" 
1Samuel25:35 So David received from her hand what she had brought him and said to her, “Go up to your house in peace. See, I have listened to your voice and granted your request.”" 
1Samuel25:36 Then Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, he was holding a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal’s heart was merry within him, for he was very drunk; so she did not tell him anything small or great until the morning light." 
1Samuel25:37 But in the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him so that he became as a stone." 
1Samuel25:38 Now it happened that about ten days later, Yahweh smote Nabal, and he died." 
1Samuel25:39 Then David heard that Nabal was dead, so he said, “Blessed be Yahweh, who has pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal and has kept back His servant from evil. Yahweh has also returned the evil of Nabal on his own head.” Then David sent a proposal to Abigail, to take her as his wife." 
1Samuel25:40 Then the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel and spoke to her, saying, “David has sent us to you to take you as his wife.”" 
1Samuel25:41 And she arose and bowed with her face to the ground and said, “Behold, your maidservant is a servant-woman to wash the feet of my lord’s servants.”" 
1Samuel25:42 Then Abigail hurried and arose, and she rode on a donkey, with her five young women who went about with her; and she went after the messengers of David and became his wife." 
1Samuel25:43 David had also taken Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they both became his wives." 
1Samuel25:44 Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, David’s wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was from Gallim." 
1Samuel26:1 Then the Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, “Is not David hiding on the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon?”" 
1Samuel26:2 So Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having with him three thousand chosen men of Israel, to search for David in the wilderness of Ziph." 
1Samuel26:3 And Saul camped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon, beside the road. Now David was staying in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness." 
1Samuel26:4 So David sent out spies and knew that Saul was certainly coming. 
1Samuel26:5 David then arose and came to the place where Saul had camped. And David saw the place where Saul lay, as well as Abner the son of Ner, the commander of his army; and Saul was lying in the circle of the camp, and the people were camped around him." 
1Samuel26:6 Then David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab’s brother, saying, “Who will go down with me to Saul in the camp?” And Abishai said, “I will go down with you.”" 
1Samuel26:7 So David and Abishai came to the people by night, and behold, Saul lay sleeping inside the circle of the camp with his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people were lying around him." 
1Samuel26:8 Then Abishai said to David, “Today God has surrendered your enemy into your hand; so now, please let me strike him with the spear to the ground with one stroke, and I will not strike him the second time.”" 
1Samuel26:9 But David said to Abishai, “Do not destroy him, for who can send forth his hand against the anointed of Yahweh and be without guilt?”" 
1Samuel26:10 David also said, “As Yahweh lives, surely Yahweh will smite him, or his day will come that he dies, or he will go down into battle and be swept away." 
1Samuel26:11 Yahweh forbid that I should send forth my hand against the anointed of Yahweh; but now please take the spear that is at his head and the jug of water, and let us go.”" 
1Samuel26:12 So David took the spear and the jug of water from beside Saul’s head, and they went away, but no one saw or knew it, nor did any awake, for they were all asleep, because a sound sleep from Yahweh had fallen on them." 
1Samuel26:13 Then David crossed over to the other side and stood on top of the mountain at a distance with a large area between them. 
1Samuel26:14 And David called to the people and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, “Will you not answer, Abner?” Then Abner answered and said, “Who are you who calls to the king?”" 
1Samuel26:15 So David said to Abner, “Are you not a man? And who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not guarded your lord the king? For one of the people came to destroy the king your lord." 
1Samuel26:16 This thing that you have done is not good. As Yahweh lives, all of you must surely die because you did not keep watch over your lord, the anointed of Yahweh. So now, see where the king’s spear is and the jug of water that was at his head.”" 
1Samuel26:17 Then Saul recognized David’s voice and said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” And David said, “It is my voice, my lord the king.”" 
1Samuel26:18 He also said, “Why then is my lord pursuing his servant? For what have I done? Or what evil is in my hand?" 
1Samuel26:19 So now, please let my lord the king listen to the words of his servant. If Yahweh has incited you up against me, let Him accept an offering; but if it is men, cursed are they before Yahweh, for they have driven me out today so that I would have no attachment with the inheritance of Yahweh, saying, ‘Go, serve other gods.’" 
1Samuel26:20 So now, do not let my blood fall to the ground away from the presence of Yahweh; for the king of Israel has come out to search for a single flea, just as one pursues a partridge in the mountains.”" 
1Samuel26:21 Then Saul said, “I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I will not harm you again because my life was precious in your sight this day. Behold, I have played the fool and have committed a serious error.”" 
1Samuel26:22 And David replied, “Behold the spear of the king! Now let one of the young men come over and take it." 
1Samuel26:23 Now Yahweh will repay each man for his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Yahweh gave you into my hand today, but I was not willing to send forth my hand against the anointed of Yahweh." 
1Samuel26:24 Now behold, as your life was highly valued in my sight this day, so may my life be highly valued in the sight of Yahweh, and may He deliver me from all distress.”" 
1Samuel26:25 Then Saul said to David, “Blessed are you, my son David; you will both accomplish much and surely prevail.” So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place." 
1Samuel27:1 Then David said in his heart, “Now I will be swept away one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should utterly escape into the land of the Philistines. Saul then will despair of searching for me anymore in all the territory of Israel, and I will escape from his hand.”" 
1Samuel27:2 So David arose and crossed over, he and the six hundred men who were with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, king of Gath." 
1Samuel27:3 And David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men, each with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal’s wife." 
1Samuel27:4 And it was told to Saul that David had fled to Gath, so he no longer searched for him." 
1Samuel27:5 Then David said to Achish, “If now I have found favor in your sight, let them give me a place in one of the cities in the country, that I may live there; for why should your servant live in the royal city with you?”" 
1Samuel27:6 So Achish gave him Ziklag that day; therefore Ziklag has belonged to the kings of Judah to this day. 
1Samuel27:7 And the number of days that David lived in the country of the Philistines was a year and four months. 
1Samuel27:8 Now David and his men went up and raided the Geshurites and the Girzites and the Amalekites; for they were the inhabitants of the land from ancient times, as you come to Shur even as far as the land of Egypt." 
1Samuel27:9 And David struck the land and did not leave a man or a woman alive, and he took away the sheep, the cattle, the donkeys, the camels, and the clothing. Then he returned and came to Achish." 
1Samuel27:10 And Achish said, “Where have you made a raid today?” And David said, “Against the Negev of Judah and against the Negev of the Jerahmeelites and against the Negev of the Kenites.”" 
1Samuel27:11 And David did not leave a man or a woman alive to bring to Gath, saying, “Lest they tell about us, saying, ‘So has David done and so has been his custom all the time he has lived in the country of the Philistines.’”" 
1Samuel27:12 So Achish believed David, saying, “He has surely made himself odious among his people Israel; therefore he will become my servant forever.”" 
1Samuel28:1 Now it happened in those days that the Philistines gathered their armed camps for war, to fight against Israel. And Achish said to David, “Know assuredly that you will go out with me in the camp, you and your men.”" 
1Samuel28:2 And David said to Achish, “Very well, you shall know what your servant can do.” So Achish said to David, “Very well, I will make you my bodyguard for life.”" 
1Samuel28:3 Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented for him and buried him in Ramah, his own city. And Saul had removed from the land those who were mediums and spiritists." 
1Samuel28:4 So the Philistines gathered together and came and camped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they camped in Gilboa." 
1Samuel28:5 Saul saw the camp of the Philistines and was afraid and his heart trembled greatly. 
1Samuel28:6 So Saul asked of Yahweh, but Yahweh did not answer him, either by dreams or by Urim or by prophets." 
1Samuel28:7 So Saul said to his servants, “Seek for me a woman who is a medium, that I may go to her and inquire of her.” And his servants said to him, “Behold, there is a woman who is a medium at En-dor.”" 
1Samuel28:8 Then Saul disguised himself and put on other clothes, and he went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night; and he said, “Divine for me, please, and bring up for me whom I shall say to you.”" 
1Samuel28:9 But the woman said to him, “Behold, you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off those who are mediums and spiritists from the land. Why are you then laying a snare for my life to bring about my death?”" 
1Samuel28:10 Then Saul swore to her by Yahweh, saying, “As Yahweh lives, no punishment shall come upon you for this thing.”" 
1Samuel28:11 Then the woman said, “Whom shall I bring up for you?” And he said, “Bring up Samuel for me.”" 
1Samuel28:12 And the woman saw Samuel and cried out with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Saul, saying, “Why have you deceived me? For you are Saul.”" 
1Samuel28:13 And the king said to her, “Do not be afraid; but what do you see?” And the woman said to Saul, “I see a divine being coming up out of the earth.”" 
1Samuel28:14 And he said to her, “What is his form?” And she said, “An old man is coming up, and he is wrapped with a robe.” And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground and prostrated himself." 
1Samuel28:15 Then Samuel said to Saul, “Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?” And Saul answered, “I am greatly distressed, for the Philistines are waging war against me, and God has turned away from me and no longer answers me, either by the hand of the prophets or by dreams; therefore I have called you, that you may make known to me what I should do.”" 
1Samuel28:16 And Samuel said, “Why then do you ask me, since Yahweh has turned away from you and has become your adversary?" 
1Samuel28:17 So Yahweh has done accordingly as He spoke by my hand, for Yahweh has torn the kingdom out of your hand and given it to your neighbor, to David." 
1Samuel28:18 As you did not listen to the voice of Yahweh and did not execute His burning anger on Amalek, so Yahweh has done this thing to you this day." 
1Samuel28:19 Moreover Yahweh will also give over Israel along with you into the hands of the Philistines, therefore tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. Indeed Yahweh will give over the camp of Israel into the hands of the Philistines!”" 
1Samuel28:20 Then Saul quickly fell full length upon the ground and was very afraid because of the words of Samuel; also there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no food all day and all night." 
1Samuel28:21 And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was terrified and said to him, “Behold, your servant-woman has listened to your voice, and I have taken my life in my hand and have listened to your words which you spoke to me." 
1Samuel28:22 So now also, please listen to the voice of your servant-woman, and let me set a piece of bread before you that you may eat and have strength when you go on your way.”" 
1Samuel28:23 But he refused and said, “I will not eat.” However, his servants together with the woman urged him, and he listened to them. So he arose from the ground and sat on the bed." 
1Samuel28:24 And the woman had a fattened calf in the house, and she quickly sacrificed it; and she took flour, kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread from it." 
1Samuel28:25 And she brought it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. Then they arose and went away that night." 
1Samuel29:1 Then the Philistines gathered together all their camps to Aphek, while the Israelites were camping by the spring which is in Jezreel." 
1Samuel29:2 And the lords of the Philistines were proceeding on by hundreds and by thousands, and David and his men were proceeding on in the rear with Achish." 
1Samuel29:3 Then the commanders of the Philistines said, “What are these Hebrews doing here?” And Achish said to the commanders of the Philistines, “Is this not David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found no fault in him from the day he deserted to me to this day?”" 
1Samuel29:4 But the commanders of the Philistines were angry with him, and the commanders of the Philistines said to him, “Make the man return, that he may return to his place where you have assigned him, and do not let him go down to battle with us, or in the battle he may become an adversary to us. For with what could this man make himself acceptable to his lord? Would it not be with the heads of these men?" 
1Samuel29:5 Is this not David, of whom they sing in the dances, saying, ‘Saul has struck his thousands, And David his ten thousands’?”" 
1Samuel29:6 Then Achish called David and said to him, “As Yahweh lives, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the camp are pleasing in my sight; for I have not found evil in you from the day of your coming to me to this day. Nevertheless, you are not pleasing in the sight of the lords." 
1Samuel29:7 So now, return and go in peace, that you may not do evil in the sight of the lords of the Philistines.”" 
1Samuel29:8 And David said to Achish, “But what have I done? And what have you found in your servant from the day when I came before you to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?”" 
1Samuel29:9 But Achish answered and said to David, “I know that you are pleasing in my sight, like an angel of God; nevertheless the commanders of the Philistines have said, ‘He must not go up with us to the battle.’" 
1Samuel29:10 So now, arise early in the morning with the servants of your lord who have come with you, and as soon as you have arisen early in the morning and have light, go.”" 
1Samuel29:11 So David arose early, he and his men, to go in the morning to return to the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel." 
1Samuel30:1 Then it happened when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a raid on the Negev and on Ziklag and had struck Ziklag and burned it with fire;" 
1Samuel30:2 and they took captive the women and all who were in it, both small and great—they did not put anyone to death—and carried them off and went their way." 
1Samuel30:3 Then David and his men came to the city, and behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives and their sons and their daughters had been taken captive." 
1Samuel30:4 So David and the people who were with him lifted their voices and wept until there was no strength in them to weep. 
1Samuel30:5 Now David’s two wives had been taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the widow of Nabal the Carmelite." 
1Samuel30:6 Moreover David was greatly distressed because the people said to stone him, for all the people were embittered, each one because of his sons and his daughters. But David strengthened himself in Yahweh his God." 
1Samuel30:7 Then David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, “Please bring the ephod near to me.” So Abiathar brought the ephod near to David." 
1Samuel30:8 And David asked of Yahweh, saying, “Shall I pursue this band? Shall I overtake them?” And He said to him, “Pursue, for you will surely overtake them, and you will surely deliver all.”" 
1Samuel30:9 So David went, he and the six hundred men who were with him, and they came to the brook Besor, where those left behind remained." 
1Samuel30:10 But David pursued, he and four hundred men, for two hundred who were too exhausted to cross the brook Besor remained behind." 
1Samuel30:11 Then they found an Egyptian in the field and brought him to David and gave him bread, and he ate, and they provided him water to drink." 
1Samuel30:12 And they gave him a piece of fig cake and two clusters of raisins, and he ate; then his spirit revived. For he had not eaten bread or drunk water for three days and three nights." 
1Samuel30:13 And David said to him, “To whom do you belong? And where are you from?” And he said, “I am a young man of Egypt, a slave of an Amalekite; and my master forsook me when I fell sick three days ago." 
1Samuel30:14 We made a raid on the Negev of the Cherethites and on that which belongs to Judah and on the Negev of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire.”" 
1Samuel30:15 Then David said to him, “Will you bring me down to this band?” And he said, “Swear to me by God that you will not put me to death or surrender me into the hands of my master, and I will bring you down to this band.”" 
1Samuel30:16 So he brought him down, and behold, they were spread over all the land, eating and drinking and celebrating because of all the great spoil that they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah." 
1Samuel30:17 Then David struck them down from the twilight until the evening of the next day; and not a man of them escaped, except four hundred young men who rode on camels and fled." 
1Samuel30:18 So David delivered all that the Amalekites had taken and delivered his two wives. 
1Samuel30:19 Indeed nothing of theirs was missing, whether small or great, sons or daughters, spoil or anything that they had taken for themselves; David brought it all back." 
1Samuel30:20 And David took all the sheep and the cattle which the people drove ahead of the other livestock, and they said, “This is David’s spoil.”" 
1Samuel30:21 Then David came to the two hundred men who were too exhausted to follow David, who had also remained at the brook Besor, and they went out to meet David and to meet the people who were with him, and David approached the people and greeted them." 
1Samuel30:22 Then all the evil and vile men among those who went with David said, “Because they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we have delivered, except to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away and depart.”" 
1Samuel30:23 Then David said, “You must not do so, my brothers, with what Yahweh has given us, who has kept us and given into our hand the band that came against us." 
1Samuel30:24 And who will listen to you in this matter? For as is the portion of the one who goes down to the battle, so shall the portion be of the one who remains by the baggage; they shall be apportioned together.”" 
1Samuel30:25 So it has been from that day forward, that he made it a statute and a judgment for Israel to this day." 
1Samuel30:26 Then David came to Ziklag and sent some of the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, “Behold, a gift for you from the spoil of the enemies of Yahweh:" 
1Samuel30:27 to those who were in Bethel, and to those who were in Ramoth of the Negev, and to those who were in Jattir," 
1Samuel30:28 and to those who were in Aroer, and to those who were in Siphmoth, and to those who were in Eshtemoa," 
1Samuel30:29 and to those who were in Racal, and to those who were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to those who were in the cities of the Kenites," 
1Samuel30:30 and to those who were in Hormah, and to those who were in Bor-ashan, and to those who were in Athach," 
1Samuel30:31 and to those who were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men went about.”" 
1Samuel31:1 Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines and fell slain on Mount Gilboa." 
1Samuel31:2 And the Philistines closely pursued Saul and his sons; and the Philistines struck down Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul." 
1Samuel31:3 And the battle became heavy against Saul, and the archers hit him; and he was badly wounded by the archers." 
1Samuel31:4 Then Saul said to his armor bearer, “Draw your sword and pierce me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and pierce me through and abuse me.” But his armor bearer was not willing, for he was greatly afraid. So Saul took his sword and fell on it." 
1Samuel31:5 Then his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, so he also fell on his sword and died with him." 
1Samuel31:6 Thus Saul died with his three sons, his armor bearer, and all his men on that day together." 
1Samuel31:7 Then the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, with those who were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead. So they forsook the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them." 
1Samuel31:8 Now it happened on the next day, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa." 
1Samuel31:9 Then they cut off his head and stripped off his weapons and sent them all around the land of the Philistines, to proclaim the good news to the house of their idols and to the people." 
1Samuel31:10 And they placed his weapons in the house of Ashtaroth and fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan. 
1Samuel31:11 Then the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul," 
1Samuel31:12 so all the valiant men arose and walked all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and they came to Jabesh and burned them there." 
1Samuel31:13 And they took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days." 
2Samuel1:1 Now it happened after the death of Saul, that David returned from striking down the Amalekites. Then David remained two days in Ziklag." 
2Samuel1:2 Now it happened that on the third day, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul. And his clothes were torn and dust was on his head. And it happened when he came to David, that he fell to the ground and prostrated himself." 
2Samuel1:3 Then David said to him, “From where do you come?” And he said to him, “I have escaped from the camp of Israel.”" 
2Samuel1:4 And David said to him, “How did things go? Tell me now.” And he said, “The people have fled from the battle, and also many of the people have fallen and are dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also.”" 
2Samuel1:5 So David said to the young man who told him, “How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?”" 
2Samuel1:6 And the young man who told him said, “By chance I happened to be on Mount Gilboa, and behold, Saul was leaning on his spear. And behold, the chariots and the horsemen pursued him closely." 
2Samuel1:7 Then he turned to look behind him, and he saw me and called to me. And I said, ‘Here I am.’" 
2Samuel1:8 And he said to me, ‘Who are you?’ And I answered him, ‘I am an Amalekite.’" 
2Samuel1:9 Then he said to me, ‘Please stand beside me and put me to death, for agony has seized me because my life still lingers in me.’" 
2Samuel1:10 So I stood beside him and put him to death, because I knew that he could not live after he had fallen. And I took the crown which was on his head and the bracelet which was on his arm, and I have brought them here to my lord.”" 
2Samuel1:11 Then David took hold of his clothes and tore them, and so also did all the men who were with him." 
2Samuel1:12 And they lamented and wept and fasted until evening for Saul and his son Jonathan and for the people of Yahweh and the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword." 
2Samuel1:13 And David said to the young man who told him, “Where are you from?” And he answered, “I am the son of a sojourner, an Amalekite.”" 
2Samuel1:14 Then David said to him, “How is it you were not afraid to send forth your hand to destroy the anointed of Yahweh?”" 
2Samuel1:15 And David called one of the young men and said, “Approach and fall upon him.” So he struck him and he died." 
2Samuel1:16 And David said to him, “Your blood is on your head, for your mouth has answered against you, saying, ‘I have put the anointed of Yahweh to death.’”" 
2Samuel1:17 Then David chanted with this funeral lament over Saul and Jonathan his son," 
2Samuel1:18 and he told them to teach the sons of Judah the song of the bow; behold, it is written in the book of Jashar." 
2Samuel1:19 “Your beauty, O Israel, is slain on your high places! How have the mighty fallen!" 
2Samuel1:20 Tell it not in Gath, Proclaim it not in the streets of Ashkelon, Lest the daughters of the Philistines be glad, Lest the daughters of the uncircumcised exult." 
2Samuel1:21 O mountains of Gilboa, Let not dew or rain be on you, nor fields of offerings; For there the shield of the mighty was defiled, The shield of Saul, not anointed with oil." 
2Samuel1:22 From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, The bow of Jonathan did not turn back, And the sword of Saul did not return empty." 
2Samuel1:23 Saul and Jonathan, beloved and pleasant in their life, And in their death they were not separated; They were swifter than eagles, They were mightier than lions." 
2Samuel1:24 O daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, Who clothed you luxuriously in scarlet, Who put ornaments of gold on your clothing." 
2Samuel1:25 How have the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain on your high places. 
2Samuel1:26 I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; You have been very pleasant to me. Your love to me was more wonderful Than the love of women." 
2Samuel1:27 How have the mighty fallen, And the weapons of war perished!”" 
2Samuel2:1 Now it happened afterwards that David asked of Yahweh, saying, “Shall I go up to one of the cities of Judah?” And Yahweh said to him, “Go up.” So David said, “Where shall I go up?” And He said, “To Hebron.”" 
2Samuel2:2 So David went up there, and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite." 
2Samuel2:3 And David brought up his men who were with him, each with his household; and they lived in the cities of Hebron." 
2Samuel2:4 Then the men of Judah came and there anointed David king over the house of Judah. And they told David, saying, “It was the men of Jabesh-gilead who buried Saul.”" 
2Samuel2:5 And David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh-gilead, and said to them, “May you be blessed of Yahweh because you have shown this lovingkindness with your lord, with Saul, and have buried him." 
2Samuel2:6 So now, may Yahweh show lovingkindness and truth to you; and I also will show this goodness to you, because you have done this thing." 
2Samuel2:7 So now, let your hands be strong and be valiant; for Saul your lord is dead, and also the house of Judah has anointed me king over them.”" 
2Samuel2:8 Now Abner the son of Ner, commander of Saul’s army, had taken Ish-bosheth the son of Saul and brought him over to Mahanaim." 
2Samuel2:9 And he made him king over Gilead, over the Ashurites, over Jezreel, over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, even over all Israel." 
2Samuel2:10 Ish-bosheth, Saul’s son, was forty years old when he became king over Israel, and he was king for two years. The house of Judah, however, followed David." 
2Samuel2:11 And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months. 
2Samuel2:12 Now Abner the son of Ner, went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon with the servants of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul." 
2Samuel2:13 And Joab the son of Zeruiah and the servants of David went out and met them by the pool of Gibeon; and they sat down, one on the one side of the pool and the other on the other side of the pool." 
2Samuel2:14 Then Abner said to Joab, “Now let the young men arise and hold a contest before us.” And Joab said, “Let them arise.”" 
2Samuel2:15 So they arose and went over by count, twelve for Benjamin and Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David." 
2Samuel2:16 And each one of them seized his opponent by the head and thrust his sword in his opponent’s side; so they fell down together. Therefore that place was called Helkath-hazzurim, which is in Gibeon." 
2Samuel2:17 And that day the battle was very severe, and Abner and the men of Israel were defeated before the servants of David." 
2Samuel2:18 Now the three sons of Zeruiah were there, Joab and Abishai and Asahel; and Asahel was as swift-footed as one of the gazelles which is in the field." 
2Samuel2:19 And Asahel pursued Abner and did not turn to the right or to the left from following Abner. 
2Samuel2:20 Then Abner turned to look behind him and said, “Is that you, Asahel?” And he answered, “It is I.”" 
2Samuel2:21 So Abner said to him, “Turn to your right or to your left, and seize one of the young men for yourself, and take for yourself his spoil.” But Asahel was not willing to turn aside from following him." 
2Samuel2:22 And Abner repeated again to Asahel, “Turn aside from following me. Why should I strike you to the ground? How then could I lift up my face to your brother Joab?”" 
2Samuel2:23 However, he refused to turn aside; therefore Abner struck him in the belly with the butt end of the spear, so that the spear came out at his back. And he fell there and died on the spot. And it happened that all who came to the place where Asahel had fallen and died, stood still." 
2Samuel2:24 But Joab and Abishai pursued Abner. Now the sun was going down, and they came to the hill of Ammah, which is in front of Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon." 
2Samuel2:25 And the sons of Benjamin gathered together behind Abner and became one band, and they stood on the top of a certain hill." 
2Samuel2:26 Then Abner called to Joab and said, “Shall the sword devour forever? Do you not know that it will be bitter in the end? How long will you refrain from telling the people to turn back from following their brothers?”" 
2Samuel2:27 And Joab said, “As God lives, if you had not spoken, surely then the people would have only gone away in the morning, each from following his brother.”" 
2Samuel2:28 So Joab blew the trumpet; and all the people stood still and pursued Israel no longer, nor did they continue to fight anymore." 
2Samuel2:29 But Abner and his men then went through the Arabah all that night; so they crossed the Jordan, walked all morning, and came to Mahanaim." 
2Samuel2:30 Now Joab returned from following Abner. And he had gathered all the people together, and nineteen of David’s servants besides Asahel were missing." 
2Samuel2:31 But the servants of David had struck down many of Benjamin and Abner’s men, so that 360 men died." 
2Samuel2:32 And they took up Asahel and buried him in his father’s tomb which was in Bethlehem. Then Joab and his men went all night until the day dawned at Hebron. 
2Samuel3:1 Now the war between the house of Saul and the house of David was long; and David grew steadily stronger, but the house of Saul grew weaker continually." 
2Samuel3:2 And sons were born to David at Hebron: his firstborn was Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess;" 
2Samuel3:3 and his second, Chileab, by Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite; and the third, Absalom the son of Maacah, the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur;" 
2Samuel3:4 and the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; and the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;" 
2Samuel3:5 and the sixth, Ithream, by David’s wife Eglah. These were born to David at Hebron." 
2Samuel3:6 Now it happened, while there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David that Abner was making himself strong in the house of Saul." 
2Samuel3:7 Now Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah; and Ish-bosheth said to Abner, “Why have you gone in to my father’s concubine?”" 
2Samuel3:8 Then Abner was very angry over the words of Ish-bosheth and said, “Am I a dog’s head that belongs to Judah? Today I show lovingkindness to the house of Saul your father, to his brothers and to his friends, and have not delivered you into the hands of David; and yet today you charge me with a guilt concerning the woman." 
2Samuel3:9 May God do so to Abner, and more also, if as Yahweh has sworn to David, I do not do this for him," 
2Samuel3:10 to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and to establish the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan even to Beersheba.”" 
2Samuel3:11 And he could no longer respond a word to Abner, because he was afraid of him." 
2Samuel3:12 Then Abner sent messengers to David in his place, saying, “Whose is the land? Cut your covenant with me, and behold, my hand shall be with you to turn all Israel over to you.”" 
2Samuel3:13 And he said, “Good! I will cut a covenant with you, but I ask one thing of you, namely, you shall not see my face unless you first bring Michal, Saul’s daughter, when you come to see my face.”" 
2Samuel3:14 So David sent messengers to Ish-bosheth, Saul’s son, saying, “Give me my wife Michal, to whom I was betrothed for one hundred foreskins of the Philistines.”" 
2Samuel3:15 And Ish-bosheth sent and took her from her husband, from Paltiel the son of Laish." 
2Samuel3:16 But her husband went with her, weeping as he went, and followed her as far as Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, “Go, return.” So he returned." 
2Samuel3:17 Now Abner had consultation with the elders of Israel, saying, “In times past you were seeking for David to be king over you." 
2Samuel3:18 So now, do it! For Yahweh has spoken of David, saying, ‘By the hand of My servant David I will save My people Israel from the hand of the Philistines and from the hand of all their enemies.’”" 
2Samuel3:19 Abner also spoke in the hearing of Benjamin; and in addition Abner went to speak in the hearing of David in Hebron all that was good in the sight of Israel and in the sight of the whole house of Benjamin. 
2Samuel3:20 Then Abner and twenty men with him came to David at Hebron. And David made a feast for Abner and the men who were with him. 
2Samuel3:21 And Abner said to David, “Let me arise and go and gather all Israel to my lord the king, that they may cut a covenant with you, and that you may be king over all that your soul desires.” So David sent Abner away, and he went in peace." 
2Samuel3:22 And behold, the servants of David and Joab came from a raid and brought much spoil with them; but Abner was not with David in Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he had gone in peace." 
2Samuel3:23 Now Joab and all the army that was with him arrived, and they told Joab, saying, “Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and he has sent him away, and he has gone in peace.”" 
2Samuel3:24 Then Joab came to the king and said, “What have you done? Behold, Abner came to you; why then have you sent him away and he is already gone?" 
2Samuel3:25 You know Abner the son of Ner, that he came to deceive you and to know of your going out and your coming in and to know all that you are doing.”" 
2Samuel3:26 Then Joab came out from David and sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him back from the well of Sirah; but David did not know it." 
2Samuel3:27 So when Abner returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside into the middle of the gate to speak with him privately, and there he struck him in the belly so that he died on account of the blood of Asahel his brother." 
2Samuel3:28 Afterward David heard it, so he said, “I and my kingdom are innocent before Yahweh forever of the blood of Abner the son of Ner." 
2Samuel3:29 May it whirl on the head of Joab and on all his father’s house; and may one who has a discharge, or who is a leper, or who takes hold of a spindle, or who falls by the sword, or who lacks bread not be cut off from the house of Joab.”" 
2Samuel3:30 So Joab and Abishai his brother killed Abner because he had put their brother Asahel to death in the battle at Gibeon. 
2Samuel3:31 Then David said to Joab and to all the people who were with him, “Tear your clothes and gird on sackcloth and lament before Abner.” And King David walked behind the bier." 
2Samuel3:32 Thus they buried Abner in Hebron; and the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept." 
2Samuel3:33 And the king chanted a lament for Abner and said, “Should Abner die as a wicked fool dies?" 
2Samuel3:34 Your hands were not bound, nor your feet put in fetters; As one falls before the unrighteous, you have fallen.” And all the people continued to weep over him." 
2Samuel3:35 Then all the people came to persuade David to eat bread while it was still day; but David swore an oath, saying, “May God do so to me, and more also, if I taste bread or anything else before the sun goes down.”" 
2Samuel3:36 Now all the people took note of it, and it was good in their sight, just as everything the king did was good in the sight of all the people." 
2Samuel3:37 So all the people and all Israel knew that day that it had not been the will of the king to put Abner the son of Ner to death. 
2Samuel3:38 Then the king said to his servants, “Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen this day in Israel?" 
2Samuel3:39 Thus I am weak today, though anointed king; and these men the sons of Zeruiah are too difficult for me. May Yahweh repay the evildoer according to his evil.”" 
2Samuel4:1 Then Ish-bosheth, Saul’s son heard that Abner had died in Hebron. And he lost courage, and all Israel was dismayed." 
2Samuel4:2 Now Saul’s son had two men who were commanders of bands: the name of the one was Baanah and the name of the other Rechab, sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, of the sons of Benjamin (for Beeroth is also considered part of Benjamin," 
2Samuel4:3 and the Beerothites fled to Gittaim and have been sojourners there until this day). 
2Samuel4:4 Now Jonathan, Saul’s son, had a son crippled in his feet. He was five years old when the report of Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel, and his nurse took him up and fled. And it happened that in her hurry to flee, he fell and became lame. And his name was Mephibosheth." 
2Samuel4:5 So the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went forth and came to the house of Ish-bosheth in the heat of the day while he was taking his midday rest." 
2Samuel4:6 They came to the middle of the house as if to get wheat, and they struck him in the belly; and Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped." 
2Samuel4:7 Thus they came into the house, as he was lying on his bed in his bedroom, and they struck him and put him to death and beheaded him. And they took his head and went on the way leading to the Arabah all night." 
2Samuel4:8 Then they brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David at Hebron and said to the king, “Behold, the head of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, your enemy, who sought your life; thus Yahweh has given my lord the king vengeance this day on Saul and his seed.”" 
2Samuel4:9 And David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said to them, “As Yahweh lives, who has redeemed my life from all distress," 
2Samuel4:10 when one told me, saying, ‘Behold, Saul is dead,’ and thought he was bringing good news, I seized him and killed him in Ziklag, which was the reward I gave him for his news." 
2Samuel4:11 How much more, when wicked men have killed a righteous man in his own house on his bed, shall I not now require his blood from your hand and purge you from the earth?”" 
2Samuel4:12 Then David commanded the young men, and they killed them and cut off their hands and feet and hung them up beside the pool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ish-bosheth and buried it in the grave of Abner in Hebron." 
2Samuel5:1 Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, “Behold, we are your bone and your flesh." 
2Samuel5:2 Previously, when Saul was king over us, you were the one who led out and brought in Israel; and Yahweh said to you, ‘You will shepherd My people Israel, and you will be a ruler over Israel.’”" 
2Samuel5:3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and King David cut a covenant with them in Hebron before Yahweh; then they anointed David king over Israel." 
2Samuel5:4 Now David was thirty years old when he became king, and he reigned forty years." 
2Samuel5:5 At Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years over all Israel and Judah." 
2Samuel5:6 Then the king and his men went to Jerusalem against the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, and they said to David, “You shall not come in here, but the blind and lame will turn you away”; thinking, “David cannot enter here.”" 
2Samuel5:7 Nevertheless, David captured the fortress of Zion, that is the city of David." 
2Samuel5:8 And David said on that day, “Whoever would strike down the Jebusites, let him reach the lame and the blind, who are hated by David’s soul, through the water tunnel.” Therefore they say, “The blind or the lame shall not come into the house.”" 
2Samuel5:9 Then David lived in the fortress and called it the city of David. And David built all around from the Millo and inward. 
2Samuel5:10 And David became greater and greater, and Yahweh, the God of hosts, was with him." 
2Samuel5:11 Then Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David with cedar trees and craftsmen of wood and craftsmen of stone walls; and they built a house for David. 
2Samuel5:12 Thus David knew that Yahweh had established him as king over Israel, and that He had lifted up his kingdom for the sake of His people Israel." 
2Samuel5:13 And David took more concubines and wives from Jerusalem, after he came from Hebron; and more sons and daughters were born to David." 
2Samuel5:14 Now these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon," 
2Samuel5:15 Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia," 
2Samuel5:16 Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet." 
2Samuel5:17 Then the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, so all the Philistines went up to seek out David. And David heard of it and went down to the fortress." 
2Samuel5:18 Now the Philistines had come and spread themselves out in the valley of Rephaim. 
2Samuel5:19 Then David asked of Yahweh, saying, “Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will You give them into my hand?” And Yahweh said to David, “Go up, for I will certainly give the Philistines into your hand.”" 
2Samuel5:20 So David came to Baal-perazim, and there David struck them down; and he said, “Yahweh has broken through my enemies before me, like the breakthrough of waters.” Therefore he named that place Baal-perazim." 
2Samuel5:21 And they forsook their idols there; so David and his men carried them away. 
2Samuel5:22 Then the Philistines yet again came up and spread themselves out in the valley of Rephaim. 
2Samuel5:23 So David asked of Yahweh, and He said, “You shall not go directly up; circle around behind them and come at them in front of the balsam trees." 
2Samuel5:24 And it will be that when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall act promptly, for then Yahweh will have gone out before you to strike the camp of the Philistines.”" 
2Samuel5:25 Then David did so, just as Yahweh had commanded him, and struck down the Philistines from Geba as far as Gezer." 
2Samuel6:1 Then David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand." 
2Samuel6:2 And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Baale-judah, to bring up from there the ark of God which is called by the Name, the very name of Yahweh of hosts who is enthroned above the cherubim." 
2Samuel6:3 And they drove the ark of God on a new cart that they might bring it from the house of Abinadab which was on the hill; and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were leading the new cart." 
2Samuel6:4 So they brought it with the ark of God from the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill; and Ahio was walking ahead of the ark." 
2Samuel6:5 Now David and all the house of Israel were celebrating before Yahweh with all kinds of instruments made of fir wood, and with lyres, harps, tambourines, castanets, and cymbals." 
2Samuel6:6 Then they came to the threshing floor of Nacon. And Uzzah reached out toward the ark of God and took hold of it, because the oxen nearly upset it." 
2Samuel6:7 And the anger of Yahweh burned against Uzzah, and God struck him down there for his irreverence; and he died there by the ark of God." 
2Samuel6:8 And David became angry because of Yahweh’s breaking out against Uzzah; and that place is called Perez-uzzah to this day. 
2Samuel6:9 So David was afraid of Yahweh that day; and he said, “How can the ark of Yahweh come to me?”" 
2Samuel6:10 And David was unwilling to move the ark of Yahweh into the city of David with him; but David took it aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 
2Samuel6:11 Thus the ark of Yahweh remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months, and Yahweh blessed Obed-edom and all his household." 
2Samuel6:12 Then it was told to King David, saying, “Yahweh has blessed the house of Obed-edom and all that belongs to him, on account of the ark of God.” So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom into the city of David with gladness." 
2Samuel6:13 And so it happened, that when those who were carrying the ark of Yahweh had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a fatling." 
2Samuel6:14 And David was dancing before Yahweh with all his strength, and David was girded with a linen ephod." 
2Samuel6:15 So David and all the house of Israel were bringing up the ark of Yahweh with shouting and the sound of the trumpet. 
2Samuel6:16 Then it happened as the ark of Yahweh came into the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul looked out of the window and saw King David leaping and dancing before Yahweh; and she despised him in her heart." 
2Samuel6:17 And they brought in the ark of Yahweh and placed it in its place inside the tent which David had pitched for it; and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before Yahweh. 
2Samuel6:18 Then David completed offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings. And he blessed the people in the name of Yahweh of hosts. 
2Samuel6:19 And he apportioned to all the people, to all the multitude of Israel, both to men and women, a cake of bread and one of dates and one of raisins to each one. Then all the people went each to his house." 
2Samuel6:20 But David returned to bless his household, and Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David and said, “How the king of Israel has glorified himself today! He uncovered himself today in the eyes of his servants’ maids as one of the worthless ones shamelessly uncovers himself!”" 
2Samuel6:21 So David said to Michal, “It was before Yahweh, who chose me above your father and above all his house, to appoint me ruler over the people of Yahweh, over Israel; therefore I will celebrate before Yahweh." 
2Samuel6:22 And I will be esteemed even more lightly than this and will be humble in my own eyes, but with the maids of whom you have spoken, with them I will be glorified.”" 
2Samuel6:23 And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death. 
2Samuel7:1 Now it happened when the king inhabited his house, and Yahweh had given him rest on every side from all his enemies," 
2Samuel7:2 that the king said to Nathan the prophet, “See now, I inhabit a house of cedar, but the ark of God inhabits tent curtains.”" 
2Samuel7:3 So Nathan said to the king, “Go, do all that is in your heart, for Yahweh is with you.”" 
2Samuel7:4 Now it happened in the same night, that the word of Yahweh came to Nathan, saying," 
2Samuel7:5 “Go and say to My servant David, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Are you the one who would build Me a house to inhabit?" 
2Samuel7:6 For I have not inhabited a house since the day I brought up the sons of Israel from Egypt, even to this day; but I have been going about in a tent, even in a tabernacle." 
2Samuel7:7 Wherever I have gone about with all the sons of Israel, did I speak a word with one of the tribes of Israel, which I commanded to shepherd My people Israel, saying, ‘Why have you not built Me a house of cedar?’”’" 
2Samuel7:8 So now, thus you shall say to My servant David, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “I Myself took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be ruler over My people Israel." 
2Samuel7:9 And I have been with you wherever you have gone and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make you a great name, like the name of the great men who are on the earth." 
2Samuel7:10 And I will appoint a place for My people Israel and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place and not be disturbed again; and the unrighteous will not afflict them any more as formerly," 
2Samuel7:11 even from the day that I commanded judges to be over My people Israel; and I will give you rest from all your enemies. Yahweh also declares to you that Yahweh will make a house for you. 
2Samuel7:12 When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up one of your seed after you, who will come forth from your own body, and I will establish his kingdom." 
2Samuel7:13 He shall build a house for My name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever." 
2Samuel7:14 I will be a father to him and he will be a son to Me; when he commits iniquity, I will reprove him with the rod of men and the strikes from the sons of men," 
2Samuel7:15 but My lovingkindness shall not be removed from him, as I removed it from Saul, whom I removed from before you." 
2Samuel7:16 And your house and your kingdom shall endure before Me forever; your throne shall be established forever.”’” 
2Samuel7:17 According to all these words and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David." 
2Samuel7:18 Then David the king went in and sat before Yahweh, and he said, “Who am I, O Lord Yahweh, and what is my house, that You have brought me this far?" 
2Samuel7:19 And yet this was a small thing in Your eyes, O Lord Yahweh, for You have spoken also of the house of Your slave concerning the distant future. And this is the law of man, O Lord Yahweh." 
2Samuel7:20 And again what more can David say to You? And You know Your slave, O Lord Yahweh!" 
2Samuel7:21 For the sake of Your word, and according to Your own heart, You have done all this greatness to let Your slave know." 
2Samuel7:22 For this reason You are great, O Lord Yahweh; for there is none like You, and there is no God besides You, according to all that we have heard with our ears." 
2Samuel7:23 And what one nation on the earth is like Your people Israel, whom God went to redeem for Himself as a people and to make a name for Himself, and to do a great thing for You and awesome things for Your land, before Your people whom You have redeemed for Yourself from Egypt, from nations and their gods?" 
2Samuel7:24 Yet You have established for Yourself Your people Israel as Your own people forever, and You, O Yahweh, have become their God." 
2Samuel7:25 So now, O Yahweh God, the word that You have spoken concerning Your slave and concerning his house, establish it forever, and do as You have spoken," 
2Samuel7:26 that Your name may be magnified forever, by saying, ‘Yahweh of hosts is God over Israel’; and the house of Your servant David shall be established before You." 
2Samuel7:27 For You, O Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, have revealed in the hearing of Your slave, saying, ‘I will build you a house’; therefore Your slave has found courage in his heart to pray this prayer to You." 
2Samuel7:28 So now, O Lord Yahweh, You are God, and Your words are truth, and You have promised this good thing to Your slave." 
2Samuel7:29 So now, be pleased and bless the house of Your slave, that it may be forever before You. For You, O Lord Yahweh, have spoken; and with Your blessing may the house of Your slave be blessed forever.”" 
2Samuel8:1 Now it happened afterwards, that David struck the Philistines and subdued them; and David took control of the chief city from the hand of the Philistines." 
2Samuel8:2 He also struck Moab, and measured them with the line, making them lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death and one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became servants to David, bringing tribute." 
2Samuel8:3 Then David struck Hadadezer, the son of Rehob king of Zobah, as he went to restore his power at the River." 
2Samuel8:4 And David captured from him 1,700 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers; and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but left enough of them for 100 chariots." 
2Samuel8:5 Then the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer, king of Zobah. And David struck down 22,000 Arameans." 
2Samuel8:6 Then David placed garrisons among the Arameans of Damascus; and the Arameans became servants to David, bringing tribute. And Yahweh granted salvation to David wherever he went." 
2Samuel8:7 And David took the small shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 
2Samuel8:8 Also from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, King David took a very large amount of bronze." 
2Samuel8:9 Then Toi king of Hamath heard that David had struck down all the military force of Hadadezer," 
2Samuel8:10 so Toi sent Joram his son to King David to greet him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and struck him down; for Hadadezer had been at war with Toi. And in Joram’s hand were articles of silver, of gold, and of bronze." 
2Samuel8:11 King David also set these apart as holy to Yahweh, with the silver and the gold that he had set apart as holy from all the nations which he had subdued:" 
2Samuel8:12 from Aram, Moab, the sons of Ammon, the Philistines, Amalek, and from the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah." 
2Samuel8:13 So David made a name for himself when he returned from striking down 18,000 Arameans in the Valley of Salt." 
2Samuel8:14 Then he placed garrisons in Edom. In all Edom he placed garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Yahweh granted salvation to David wherever he went." 
2Samuel8:15 So David reigned over all Israel; and David was doing justice and righteousness for all his people. 
2Samuel8:16 Now Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;" 
2Samuel8:17 and Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar were priests, and Seraiah was scribe;" 
2Samuel8:18 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were priests. 
2Samuel9:1 Then David said, “Is there yet anyone left of the house of Saul, that I may show him lovingkindness for Jonathan’s sake?”" 
2Samuel9:2 Now there was a servant of the house of Saul whose name was Ziba, and they called him to David; and the king said to him, “Are you Ziba?” And he said, “I am your servant.”" 
2Samuel9:3 And the king said, “Is there not yet anyone of the house of Saul to whom I may show the lovingkindness of God?” And Ziba said to the king, “There is still a son of Jonathan who is crippled in both feet.”" 
2Samuel9:4 So the king said to him, “Where is he?” And Ziba said to the king, “Behold, he is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel in Lo-debar.”" 
2Samuel9:5 Then King David sent and took him from the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, from Lo-debar." 
2Samuel9:6 So Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan the son of Saul, came to David and fell on his face and prostrated himself. And David said, “Mephibosheth.” And he said, “Here is your servant!”" 
2Samuel9:7 And David said to him, “Do not fear, for I will surely show lovingkindness to you for the sake of your father Jonathan, and will restore to you all the land of your grandfather Saul; and you shall eat at my table continually.”" 
2Samuel9:8 So he prostrated himself and said, “What is your servant, that you should regard a dead dog like me?”" 
2Samuel9:9 Then the king called Saul’s young man Ziba and said to him, “All that belonged to Saul and to all his house I have given to your master’s grandson." 
2Samuel9:10 And you and your sons and your servants shall cultivate the land for him, and you shall bring in the produce so that your master’s grandson may have food and eat of it; nevertheless Mephibosheth your master’s grandson shall eat at my table continually.” Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants." 
2Samuel9:11 Then Ziba said to the king, “According to all that my lord the king commands his servant so your servant will do.” So Mephibosheth ate at David’s table as one of the king’s sons." 
2Samuel9:12 Now Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was Mica. And all who lived in the house of Ziba were servants to Mephibosheth. 
2Samuel9:13 So Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem, for he ate at the king’s table continually. Now he was lame in both feet." 
2Samuel10:1 Now it happened afterwards, that the king of the sons of Ammon died, and Hanun his son became king in his place." 
2Samuel10:2 So David said, “I will show lovingkindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, just as his father showed lovingkindness to me.” So David sent to comfort him concerning his father by the hand of his servants. And David’s servants came to the land of the sons of Ammon." 
2Samuel10:3 But the princes of the sons of Ammon said to Hanun their lord, “In your eyes, is David honoring your father because he has sent comforters to you? Has David not sent his servants to you in order to search the city, to spy it out and overthrow it?”" 
2Samuel10:4 So Hanun took David’s servants and shaved off half of their beards, and cut off their garments in the middle as far as their hips, and sent them away." 
2Samuel10:5 Then they told it to David. And he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly dishonored. And the king said, “Stay at Jericho until your beards grow, and then return.”" 
2Samuel10:6 Then the sons of Ammon saw that they had become odious to David. So the sons of Ammon sent and hired the Arameans of Beth-rehob and the Arameans of Zobah, 20,000 foot soldiers, and the king of Maacah with 1,000 men, and the men of Tob with 12,000 men." 
2Samuel10:7 Then David heard of it and sent Joab and all the army, the mighty men." 
2Samuel10:8 And the sons of Ammon came out and arranged themselves for battle at the entrance of the gate of the city. But the Arameans of Zobah and of Rehob and the men of Tob and Maacah were by themselves in the field. 
2Samuel10:9 Then Joab saw that the battle was set against him from the front and from the rear. So he chose from all the choice men of Israel, and they arranged themselves to meet the Arameans." 
2Samuel10:10 But the remainder of the people he put in the hand of Abishai his brother; and he arranged them to meet the sons of Ammon. 
2Samuel10:11 And he said, “If the Arameans are too strong for me, then you shall save me, but if the sons of Ammon are too strong for you, then I will come to save you." 
2Samuel10:12 Be strong, and let us show strength for the sake of our people and for the cities of our God; and may Yahweh do what is good in His sight.”" 
2Samuel10:13 So Joab and the people who were with him drew near for the battle against the Arameans, and they fled before him." 
2Samuel10:14 Now the sons of Ammon saw that the Arameans fled. So they also fled before Abishai and came into the city. Then Joab returned from fighting against the sons of Ammon and came to Jerusalem. 
2Samuel10:15 Then the Arameans saw that they had been defeated by Israel. So they gathered themselves together. 
2Samuel10:16 And Hadadezer sent and brought out the Arameans who were beyond the River, and they came to Helam; and Shobach the commander of the army of Hadadezer led them." 
2Samuel10:17 And it was told to David, so he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Arameans arranged themselves to meet David and fought against him." 
2Samuel10:18 But the Arameans fled before Israel, and David killed of the Arameans 700 charioteers and 40,000 horsemen and struck down Shobach the commander of their army, and he died there." 
2Samuel10:19 Then all the kings, the servants of Hadadezer, saw that they were defeated by Israel. So they made peace with Israel and served them. And the Arameans were afraid to save the sons of Ammon anymore." 
2Samuel11:1 Now it happened in the spring, at the time when kings go out to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel, and they destroyed the sons of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem." 
2Samuel11:2 Now when evening came David arose from his bed and walked around on the roof of the king’s house, and from the roof he saw a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful in appearance." 
2Samuel11:3 So David sent and inquired about the woman. And one said, “Is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?”" 
2Samuel11:4 Then David sent messengers and took her, and she came to him, and he lay with her; and when she had purified herself from her uncleanness, she returned to her house." 
2Samuel11:5 And the woman became pregnant; and she sent and told David, and said, “I am pregnant.”" 
2Samuel11:6 Then David sent to Joab, saying, “Send me Uriah the Hittite.” So Joab sent Uriah to David." 
2Samuel11:7 When Uriah came to him, David asked concerning the state of Joab and the state of the people and the state of the war." 
2Samuel11:8 Then David said to Uriah, “Go down to your house, and wash your feet.” And Uriah went out of the king’s house, and a present from the king went out after him." 
2Samuel11:9 But Uriah lay down at the door of the king’s house with all the servants of his lord, and did not go down to his house." 
2Samuel11:10 Then they told David, saying, “Uriah did not go down to his house.” And David said to Uriah, “Have you not come from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?”" 
2Samuel11:11 And Uriah said to David, “The ark and Israel and Judah are staying in booths, and my lord Joab and the servants of my lord are camping in the open field. Shall I then go to my house to eat and to drink and to lie with my wife? By your life and the life of your soul, I will not do this thing.”" 
2Samuel11:12 Then David said to Uriah, “Stay here today also, and tomorrow I will send you out.” So Uriah remained in Jerusalem that day and the next." 
2Samuel11:13 Now David called him, and he ate and drank before him, and he made him drunk; and in the evening he went out to lie on his bed with his lord’s servants, but he did not go down to his house." 
2Samuel11:14 Now it happened in the morning that David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah. 
2Samuel11:15 And he had written in the letter, saying, “Place Uriah in the front line of the fiercest battle and withdraw from him, so that he may be struck down and die.”" 
2Samuel11:16 So it was as Joab kept watch on the city, that he put Uriah at the place where he knew there were valiant men." 
2Samuel11:17 And the men of the city went out and fought against Joab, and some of the people among David’s servants fell; and Uriah the Hittite also died." 
2Samuel11:18 Then Joab sent and told David all the events of the war. 
2Samuel11:19 And he commanded the messenger, saying, “When you have finished telling all the events of the war to the king," 
2Samuel11:20 and if it happens that the king’s wrath rises and he says to you, ‘Why did you approach the city to fight? Did you not know that they would shoot from the wall?" 
2Samuel11:21 Who struck down Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? Did not a woman cast an upper millstone on him from the wall so he died at Thebez? Why did you approach the wall?’—then you shall say, ‘Your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.’”" 
2Samuel11:22 So the messenger went and came and told David all that Joab had sent him to tell. 
2Samuel11:23 And the messenger said to David, “The men prevailed against us and came out against us in the field, but we pressed them as far as the entrance of the gate." 
2Samuel11:24 And the archers shot at your servants from the wall; so some of the king’s servants died, and your servant Uriah the Hittite also died.”" 
2Samuel11:25 Then David said to the messenger, “Thus you shall say to Joab, ‘Do not let this thing be evil in your sight, for the sword devours one as well as another; make your battle against the city stronger and tear it down’; and so strengthen him.”" 
2Samuel11:26 Then the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband had died, so she lamented over her husband." 
2Samuel11:27 Then the time of mourning passed by, and David sent and gathered her to his house and she became his wife; then she bore him a son. But the thing that David had done was evil in the sight of Yahweh." 
2Samuel12:1 Then Yahweh sent Nathan to David. And he came to him and said, “There were two men in one city, the one rich and the other poor." 
2Samuel12:2 The rich man had a great many flocks and herds. 
2Samuel12:3 But the poor man had nothing except one little ewe lamb Which he bought and nourished; And it grew up together with him and his children. It would eat his morsel of bread and drink of his cup and lie in his bosom, And was like a daughter to him." 
2Samuel12:4 Now a visitor came to the rich man, And he was unwilling to take from his own flock or his own herd, To prepare for the traveler who had come to him; Rather he took the poor man’s ewe lamb and prepared it for the man who had come to him.”" 
2Samuel12:5 Then David’s anger burned greatly against the man, and he said to Nathan, “As Yahweh lives, surely the man who has done this deserves to die." 
2Samuel12:6 And he must make restitution for the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing and had no compassion.”" 
2Samuel12:7 Nathan then said to David, “You are the man! Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘It is I who anointed you king over Israel and it is I who delivered you from the hand of Saul." 
2Samuel12:8 I also gave you your master’s house and your master’s wives into your care, and I gave you the house of Israel and Judah; and if that had been too little, I would have added to you many more things like these!" 
2Samuel12:9 Why have you despised the word of Yahweh by doing evil in His sight? You have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword, have taken his wife to be your wife, and have killed him with the sword of the sons of Ammon." 
2Samuel12:10 So now, the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised Me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.’" 
2Samuel12:11 Thus says Yahweh, ‘Behold, I will raise up evil against you from your own household; I will even take your wives from before your sight and give them to your companion, and he will lie with your wives in the sight of this sun." 
2Samuel12:12 Indeed you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel, and before the sun.’”" 
2Samuel12:13 Then David said to Nathan, “I have sinned against Yahweh.” And Nathan said to David, “Yahweh also has taken away your sin; you shall not die." 
2Samuel12:14 However, because by this deed you have given occasion to the enemies of Yahweh to blaspheme, the son also that is born to you shall surely die.”" 
2Samuel12:15 And Nathan went to his house. David’s Child DiesThen Yahweh smote the child that Uriah’s wife bore to David, so that he was very sick." 
2Samuel12:16 David therefore sought God about the boy; and David fasted and went and spent the night lying on the ground. 
2Samuel12:17 And the elders of his household stood beside him in order to raise him up from the ground, but he was unwilling and would not eat food with them." 
2Samuel12:18 Then it happened on the seventh day that the child died. And the servants of David were afraid to tell him that the child was dead, for they said, “Behold, while the child was still alive, we spoke to him and he did not listen to our voice. How then can we tell him that the child has died? He might do himself harm!”" 
2Samuel12:19 And David saw that his servants were whispering together, so David discerned that the child had died; so David said to his servants, “Has the child died?” And they said, “He has died.”" 
2Samuel12:20 So David arose from the ground, washed, anointed himself, and changed his clothes; and he came into the house of Yahweh and worshiped. Then he came to his own house, and he asked, and they set food before him, and he ate." 
2Samuel12:21 Then his servants said to him, “What is this thing that you have done? While the child was alive, you fasted and wept; but when the child died, you arose and ate food.”" 
2Samuel12:22 Then he said, “While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept; for I said, ‘Who knows, Yahweh may be gracious to me, that the child may live.’" 
2Samuel12:23 But now he has died; why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him, but he will not return to me.”" 
2Samuel12:24 Then David comforted his wife Bathsheba, and went in to her and lay with her; and she gave birth to a son, and he named him Solomon. Now Yahweh loved him" 
2Samuel12:25 and sent word by the hand of Nathan the prophet, and he named him Jedidiah for the sake of Yahweh." 
2Samuel12:26 Then Joab fought against Rabbah of the sons of Ammon and captured the royal city. 
2Samuel12:27 And Joab sent messengers to David and said, “I have fought against Rabbah, I have even captured the city of waters." 
2Samuel12:28 So now, gather the rest of the people together and camp against the city and capture it, lest I capture the city myself and it be named after me.”" 
2Samuel12:29 So David gathered all the people and went to Rabbah, fought against it and captured it." 
2Samuel12:30 Then he took the crown of their king from his head; and its weight was a talent of gold, and in it was a precious stone; and it was placed on David’s head. And he brought out the spoil of the city in a very great amount." 
2Samuel12:31 He also brought out the people who were in it and set them up with saws, sharp iron instruments, and iron axes, and made them pass through the brickkiln. And thus he used to do to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel13:1 Now it happened afterwards that Absalom the son of David had a beautiful sister whose name was Tamar, and Amnon the son of David loved her." 
2Samuel13:2 And Amnon was so distressed because of his sister Tamar that he made himself ill, for she was a virgin. So it was hard in Amnon’s sight to do anything to her." 
2Samuel13:3 But Amnon had a friend whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s brother; and Jonadab was a very shrewd man." 
2Samuel13:4 And he said to him, “O son of the king, why are you so depressed morning after morning? Will you not tell me?” Then Amnon said to him, “I am in love with Tamar, the sister of my brother Absalom.”" 
2Samuel13:5 Jonadab then said to him, “Lie down on your bed and pretend to be ill; and your father will come to see you, and you will say to him, ‘Please let my sister Tamar come and give me some food to eat, and let her prepare the food in my sight, that I may see it and eat from her hand.’”" 
2Samuel13:6 So Amnon lay down and pretended to be ill; and the king came to see him, and Amnon said to the king, “Please let my sister Tamar come and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand.”" 
2Samuel13:7 Then David sent to the house for Tamar, saying, “Go now to your brother Amnon’s house, and prepare food for him.”" 
2Samuel13:8 So Tamar went to her brother Amnon’s house, and he was lying down. And she took dough, kneaded it, made cakes in his sight, and baked the cakes." 
2Samuel13:9 And she took the pan and dished them out before him, but he refused to eat. And Amnon said, “Have everyone go out from me.” So everyone went out from him." 
2Samuel13:10 Then Amnon said to Tamar, “Bring the food into the bedroom, that I may eat from your hand.” So Tamar took the cakes which she had made and brought them into the bedroom to her brother Amnon." 
2Samuel13:11 Then she brought them near to him to eat, but he took hold of her and said to her, “Come, lie with me, my sister.”" 
2Samuel13:12 But she said to him, “No, my brother, do not violate me, for such a thing is not done in Israel; do not do this disgraceful thing!" 
2Samuel13:13 As for me, where could I get rid of my reproach? And as for you, you will be like one of the wicked fools in Israel. So now, please speak to the king, for he will not withhold me from you.”" 
2Samuel13:14 But he was not willing to listen to her voice. Now he was stronger than she, so he violated her and lay with her." 
2Samuel13:15 Then Amnon hated her with a very great hatred; for the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her. And Amnon said to her, “Get up, go away!”" 
2Samuel13:16 But she said to him, “No, because this wrong in sending me away is greater than the other that you have done to me!” But he was not willing to listen to her." 
2Samuel13:17 Then he called his young man who attended him and said, “Now cast this woman out of my presence, and lock the door behind her.”" 
2Samuel13:18 Now she had on a long-sleeved garment; for in this manner the virgin daughters of the king dressed themselves in robes. Then his attendant took her out and locked the door behind her. 
2Samuel13:19 Then Tamar put ashes on her head and tore her long-sleeved garment which was on her; and she put her hand on her head and went away, crying aloud as she went." 
2Samuel13:20 So Absalom her brother said to her, “Has Amnon your brother been with you? But now keep silent, my sister, he is your brother; do not take this matter to heart.” So Tamar remained and was desolate in her brother Absalom’s house." 
2Samuel13:21 Now when King David heard of all these matters, he was very angry." 
2Samuel13:22 But Absalom did not speak to Amnon either good or bad; for Absalom hated Amnon because he had violated his sister Tamar. 
2Samuel13:23 Now it happened after two full years that Absalom had sheepshearers in Baal-hazor, which is near Ephraim, and Absalom invited all the king’s sons." 
2Samuel13:24 And Absalom came to the king and said, “Behold now, your servant has sheepshearers; please let the king and his servants go with your servant.”" 
2Samuel13:25 But the king said to Absalom, “No, my son, we should not all go, for we will be burdensome to you.” Although he urged him, he was not willing to go, but blessed him." 
2Samuel13:26 Then Absalom said, “If not, please let my brother Amnon go with us.” And the king said to him, “Why should he go with you?”" 
2Samuel13:27 But Absalom urged him, so he sent Amnon and all the king’s sons with him." 
2Samuel13:28 Then Absalom commanded his young men, saying, “See now, when Amnon’s heart is merry with wine, and when I say to you, ‘Strike Amnon,’ then put him to death. Do not fear; have not I myself commanded you? Be strong and be valiant.”" 
2Samuel13:29 Thus the young men of Absalom did to Amnon just as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king’s sons arose and each mounted his mule and fled. 
2Samuel13:30 Now it was while they were on the way that the report came to David, saying, “Absalom has struck down all the king’s sons, and not one of them is left.”" 
2Samuel13:31 Then the king arose, tore his clothes and lay on the ground; and all his servants were standing by with clothes torn." 
2Samuel13:32 But Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s brother, answered and said, “Do not let my lord suppose they have put to death all the young men, the king’s sons, for Amnon alone has died; because by the intent of Absalom this has been set since the day that he violated his sister Tamar." 
2Samuel13:33 So now, do not let my lord the king take the report to heart, saying, ‘all the king’s sons have died,’ for only Amnon has died.”" 
2Samuel13:34 Then Absalom fled. And the young man who was the watchman raised his eyes and looked, and behold, many people were coming from the road behind him by the side of the mountain." 
2Samuel13:35 And Jonadab said to the king, “Behold, the king’s sons have come; according to your servant’s word, so it happened.”" 
2Samuel13:36 As soon as he had finished speaking, behold, the king’s sons came and lifted their voices and wept; and also the king and all his servants wept very bitterly." 
2Samuel13:37 Now Absalom had fled and went to Talmai the son of Ammihud, the king of Geshur. And David mourned for his son every day." 
2Samuel13:38 So Absalom had fled and gone to Geshur, and was there three years." 
2Samuel13:39 And the heart of King David was consumed with going out to Absalom; for he was comforted concerning Amnon, since he had died." 
2Samuel14:1 Now Joab the son of Zeruiah knew that the king’s heart was inclined toward Absalom. 
2Samuel14:2 So Joab sent to Tekoa and brought a wise woman from there and said to her, “Please pretend to be a mourner, and put on mourning garments now, and do not anoint yourself with oil, but be like a woman who has been mourning for the dead many days;" 
2Samuel14:3 then you shall go to the king and speak to him in this manner.” So Joab put the words in her mouth. 
2Samuel14:4 So the woman of Tekoa spoke to the king, and she fell on her face to the ground and prostrated herself and said, “Save, O king.”" 
2Samuel14:5 And the king said to her, “What is your trouble?” And she answered, “Truly I am a widow; my husband has died." 
2Samuel14:6 And your servant-woman had two sons, but the two of them struggled together in the field, and there was no one to deliver between them, so one struck the other and put him to death." 
2Samuel14:7 And behold, the whole family has risen against your servant-woman, and they say, ‘Hand over the one who struck his brother, that we may put him to death for the life of his brother whom he killed, and destroy the heir also.’ Thus they will extinguish my coal which remains, so as to leave my husband neither name nor remnant on the face of the earth.”" 
2Samuel14:8 Then the king said to the woman, “Go to your house, and I will give a command concerning you.”" 
2Samuel14:9 And the woman of Tekoa said to the king, “O my lord, the king, the iniquity is on me and my father’s house, but the king and his throne are guiltless.”" 
2Samuel14:10 So the king said, “Whoever speaks to you, bring him to me, and he will not touch you anymore.”" 
2Samuel14:11 Then she said, “Please let the king remember Yahweh your God, so that the avenger of blood will not continue to bring about ruin, so that they would not destroy my son.” And he said, “As Yahweh lives, not one hair of your son shall fall to the ground.”" 
2Samuel14:12 Then the woman said, “Please let your servant-woman speak a word to my lord the king.” And he said, “Speak.”" 
2Samuel14:13 Then the woman said, “Why then have you thought up such a thing against the people of God? For in speaking this word the king is as one who is guilty, in that the king does not bring back his banished one." 
2Samuel14:14 For we will surely die and are like water spilled on the ground which cannot be gathered up again. Yet God does not take away life, but thinks up ways so that the banished one will not be cast out from him." 
2Samuel14:15 So now, the reason I have come to speak this word to my lord the king is that the people have made me afraid; so your servant-woman said, ‘Let me now speak to the king, perhaps the king will perform the word of his maidservant." 
2Samuel14:16 For the king will listen and deliver his maidservant from the hand of the man who would destroy both me and my son from the inheritance of God.’ 
2Samuel14:17 Then your servant-woman said, ‘Please let the word of my lord the king be a resting place, for as the angel of God, so is my lord the king to listen with discernment through the good and evil. And may Yahweh your God be with you.’”" 
2Samuel14:18 Then the king answered and said to the woman, “Please do not hide anything from me that I am about to ask you.” And the woman said, “Let my lord the king please speak.”" 
2Samuel14:19 So the king said, “Is the hand of Joab with you in all this?” And the woman answered and said, “As your soul lives, my lord the king, no one can turn to the right or to the left from anything that my lord the king has spoken. Indeed, it was your servant Joab who commanded me, and it was he who put all these words in the mouth of your servant-woman;" 
2Samuel14:20 in order to change the appearance of things your servant Joab has done this thing. But my lord is wise, like the wisdom of the angel of God, to know all that is in the earth.”" 
2Samuel14:21 Then the king said to Joab, “Behold now, I have done this thing; go therefore, bring back the young man Absalom.”" 
2Samuel14:22 And Joab fell on his face to the ground, prostrated himself and blessed the king; then Joab said, “Today your servant knows that I have found favor in your sight, O my lord, the king, in that the king has performed the word of his servant.”" 
2Samuel14:23 So Joab arose and went to Geshur and brought Absalom to Jerusalem. 
2Samuel14:24 However the king said, “Let him turn to his own house, and let him not see my face.” So Absalom turned to his own house and did not see the king’s face." 
2Samuel14:25 Now in all Israel was no one as handsome as Absalom, so highly praised; from the sole of his foot to the top of his head there was no defect in him." 
2Samuel14:26 When he shaved the hair of his head (and it was at the end of every year that he shaved it, for it was heavy on him so he shaved it), he weighed the hair of his head at 200 shekels by the king’s weight." 
2Samuel14:27 And to Absalom there were born three sons, and one daughter whose name was Tamar; she was a woman of beautiful appearance." 
2Samuel14:28 Now Absalom lived two full years in Jerusalem, and did not see the king’s face." 
2Samuel14:29 Then Absalom sent for Joab, to send him to the king, but he was not willing to come to him. So he sent again a second time, but he was not willing to come." 
2Samuel14:30 Therefore he said to his servants, “See, Joab’s portion of land is next to mine, and he has barley there; go and set it on fire.” So Absalom’s servants set the portion of land on fire." 
2Samuel14:31 Then Joab arose, came to Absalom at his house and said to him, “Why have your servants set my portion of land on fire?”" 
2Samuel14:32 And Absalom answered Joab, “Behold, I sent for you, saying, ‘Come here, that I may send you to the king, to say, “Why have I come from Geshur? It would be better for me still to be there.”’ So now, let me see the king’s face, and if there is iniquity in me, let him put me to death.”" 
2Samuel14:33 So Joab came to the king and told him, and he called for Absalom. Thus he came to the king and prostrated himself on his face to the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom." 
2Samuel15:1 Now it happened afterwards, that Absalom prepared for himself a chariot and horses and fifty men as runners before him." 
2Samuel15:2 And Absalom used to rise early and stand beside the way to the gate; and when any man had a case to come to the king for judgment, Absalom would call to him and say, “From what city are you?” And he would say, “Your servant is from one of the tribes of Israel.”" 
2Samuel15:3 Then Absalom would say to him, “See, your words are good and right, but no man listens to you on the part of the king.”" 
2Samuel15:4 Then Absalom would say, “Oh that one would appoint me judge in the land, then every man who has any case or judgment could come to me and I would justify him.”" 
2Samuel15:5 And when a man came near to prostrate himself before him, he would send forth his hand and take hold of him and kiss him." 
2Samuel15:6 In this manner Absalom dealt with all Israel who came to the king for judgment; so Absalom stole away the hearts of the men of Israel. 
2Samuel15:7 Now it happened at the end of forty years that Absalom said to the king, “Please let me go and pay my vow which I have vowed to Yahweh, in Hebron." 
2Samuel15:8 For your servant vowed a vow while I was living at Geshur in Aram, saying, ‘If Yahweh shall indeed bring me back to Jerusalem, then I will serve Yahweh.’”" 
2Samuel15:9 And the king said to him, “Go in peace.” So he arose and went to Hebron." 
2Samuel15:10 Then Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, “As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then you shall say, ‘Absalom is king in Hebron.’”" 
2Samuel15:11 Now two hundred men went with Absalom from Jerusalem, who were invited and went innocently, and they did not know anything." 
2Samuel15:12 And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s counselor, from his city Giloh, while he was offering the sacrifices. And the conspiracy was strong, for the people increased continually with Absalom." 
2Samuel15:13 Then an informant came to David, saying, “The hearts of the men of Israel have followed Absalom.”" 
2Samuel15:14 So David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem, “Arise and let us flee, for otherwise there will be no escape for us from Absalom. Go in haste, lest he overtake us hastily and drive calamity on us and strike the city with the edge of the sword.”" 
2Samuel15:15 Then the king’s servants said to the king, “Behold, your servants are ready to do whatever my lord the king chooses.”" 
2Samuel15:16 So the king went out and all his household with him. But the king left ten concubines to keep the house. 
2Samuel15:17 And the king went out and all the people with him, and they stopped at the last house." 
2Samuel15:18 Now all his servants passed on beside him, all the Cherethites, all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men who had come with him from Gath, passed on before the king." 
2Samuel15:19 Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite, “Why will you also go with us? Return and remain with the king, for you are a foreigner and also an exile; return to your own place." 
2Samuel15:20 You came only yesterday, and shall I today make you wander with us, going about, while I go where I go? Return and cause your brothers to return; lovingkindness and truth be with you.”" 
2Samuel15:21 But Ittai answered the king and said, “As Yahweh lives, and as my lord the king lives, surely wherever my lord the king may be, whether for death or for life, there also your servant will be.”" 
2Samuel15:22 So David said to Ittai, “Go and pass over.” So Ittai the Gittite passed over with all his men and all the little ones who were with him." 
2Samuel15:23 While all the country was weeping with a loud voice, all the people passed over. The king also passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over toward the way of the wilderness." 
2Samuel15:24 Now behold, Zadok also came, and all the Levites with him carrying the ark of the covenant of God. And they set down the ark of God, and Abiathar came up until all the people had finished passing from the city." 
2Samuel15:25 Then the king said to Zadok, “Return the ark of God to the city. If I find favor in the sight of Yahweh, then He will cause me to return and show me both it and His habitation." 
2Samuel15:26 But if He should say thus, ‘I have no delight in you,’ behold, here I am, let Him do to me as seems good in His sight.”" 
2Samuel15:27 The king said also to Zadok the priest, “Are you not a seer? Return to the city in peace and your two sons with you, your son Ahimaaz and Jonathan the son of Abiathar." 
2Samuel15:28 See, I am going to wait at the fords of the wilderness until word comes from you to inform me.”" 
2Samuel15:29 So Zadok and Abiathar returned the ark of God to Jerusalem and remained there. 
2Samuel15:30 But David went up the ascent of the Mount of Olives, and wept as he went, and his head was covered and he was walking barefoot. And all the people who were with him each covered his head and went up weeping as they went." 
2Samuel15:31 Now David informed them, saying, “Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom.” And David said, “O Yahweh, I pray, make the counsel of Ahithophel foolishness.”" 
2Samuel15:32 Then it happened that as David was coming to the summit, where he used to worship God, that behold, Hushai the Archite met him with his coat torn and dust on his head." 
2Samuel15:33 And David said to him, “If you pass over with me, then you will be a burden to me." 
2Samuel15:34 But if you return to the city, and say to Absalom, ‘I will be your servant, O king; as I have been your father’s servant in time past, so I will now be your servant,’ then you can thwart the counsel of Ahithophel for me." 
2Samuel15:35 Are not Zadok and Abiathar the priests with you there? So it shall be that whatever you hear from the king’s house, you shall inform Zadok and Abiathar the priests." 
2Samuel15:36 Behold, their two sons are with them there, Ahimaaz, Zadok’s son and Jonathan, Abiathar’s son; and by their hand you shall send me everything that you hear.”" 
2Samuel15:37 So Hushai, David’s friend, came into the city, and Absalom came into Jerusalem." 
2Samuel16:1 Now David had passed a little beyond the summit, and behold, Ziba the young man of Mephibosheth met him with a couple of saddled donkeys, and on them were two hundred loaves of bread, one hundred clusters of raisins, one hundred summer fruits, and a jug of wine." 
2Samuel16:2 And the king said to Ziba, “Why do you have these?” And Ziba said, “The donkeys are for the king’s household to ride, and the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat, and the wine, for whoever is faint in the wilderness to drink.”" 
2Samuel16:3 Then the king said, “And where is your master’s son?” And Ziba said to the king, “Behold, he is staying in Jerusalem, for he said, ‘Today the house of Israel will return the kingdom of my father to me.’”" 
2Samuel16:4 So the king said to Ziba, “Behold, all that belongs to Mephibosheth is yours.” And Ziba said, “I prostrate myself; let me find favor in your sight, O my lord, the king!”" 
2Samuel16:5 And King David came to Bahurim, and behold, there came out from there a man of the family of the house of Saul whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera; he came out cursing continually as he came." 
2Samuel16:6 He also threw stones at David and at all the servants of King David; and all the people and all the mighty men were at his right hand and at his left. 
2Samuel16:7 And thus Shimei said when he cursed, “Get out, get out, you man of bloodshed, and vile fellow!" 
2Samuel16:8 Yahweh has returned upon you all the bloodshed of the house of Saul, in whose place you have reigned; and Yahweh has given the kingdom into the hand of your son Absalom. And behold, you are taken in your own evil, for you are a man of bloodshed!”" 
2Samuel16:9 Then Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king, “Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me pass over now and remove his head.”" 
2Samuel16:10 But the king said, “What have I to do with you, O sons of Zeruiah? If he curses, and if Yahweh has told him, ‘Curse David,’ then who shall say, ‘Why have you done so?’”" 
2Samuel16:11 Then David said to Abishai and to all his servants, “Behold, my son who came forth from my body seeks my life; how much more now this Benjamite? Let him alone and let him curse, for Yahweh has told him." 
2Samuel16:12 Perhaps Yahweh will look on my affliction and return good to me instead of his cursing this day.” 
2Samuel16:13 So David and his men went on the way; and Shimei went along on the hillside parallel with him and as he went he cursed and cast stones and threw dust at him. 
2Samuel16:14 Then the king and all the people who were with him arrived weary and he refreshed himself there. 
2Samuel16:15 Now Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, had entered Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him." 
2Samuel16:16 And it happened that when Hushai the Archite, David’s friend, came to Absalom, that Hushai said to Absalom, “Long live the king! Long live the king!”" 
2Samuel16:17 And Absalom said to Hushai, “Is this your lovingkindness to your friend? Why did you not go with your friend?”" 
2Samuel16:18 Then Hushai said to Absalom, “No! For whom Yahweh, this people, and all the men of Israel have chosen, his I will be, and with him I will remain." 
2Samuel16:19 Besides, whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of his son? As I have served in your father’s presence, so I will be in your presence.”" 
2Samuel16:20 Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, “Give your advice. What shall we do?”" 
2Samuel16:21 And Ahithophel said to Absalom, “Go in to your father’s concubines, whom he has left to keep the house; then all Israel will hear that you have made yourself odious to your father. The hands of all who are with you will also be strengthened.”" 
2Samuel16:22 So they pitched a tent for Absalom on the roof, and Absalom went in to his father’s concubines in the sight of all Israel." 
2Samuel16:23 Now the counsel of Ahithophel, which he counseled in those days, was as if one asked of the word of God; so was all the counsel of Ahithophel regarded by both David and Absalom." 
2Samuel17:1 Then Ahithophel said to Absalom, “Please let me choose 12,000 men that I may arise and pursue David tonight." 
2Samuel17:2 And I will come upon him while he is weary with his hands falling limp and throw him into utter fright, so that all the people who are with him will flee. Then I will strike down the king alone," 
2Samuel17:3 and I will cause all the people to return to you. The return of everyone depends on the man you seek; then all the people will be at peace.” 
2Samuel17:4 And the word was right in the eyes of Absalom and all the elders of Israel. 
2Samuel17:5 Then Absalom said, “Call now Hushai the Archite also, and let us hear what is also in his mouth.”" 
2Samuel17:6 Then Hushai came to Absalom. And Absalom spoke to him, saying, “Ahithophel has spoken thus. Shall we carry out his word? If not, you speak.”" 
2Samuel17:7 And Hushai said to Absalom, “This time the counsel that Ahithophel has counseled is not good.”" 
2Samuel17:8 Then Hushai said, “You know your father and his men, that they are mighty men and they are bitter of soul, like a bear robbed of her cubs in the field. And your father is a man of war, and will not spend the night with the people." 
2Samuel17:9 Behold, he has now hidden himself in one of the caves or in another place; and it will be when he falls on them at the first attack, that whoever hears it will say, ‘There has been a slaughter among the people who follow Absalom.’" 
2Samuel17:10 And even the one who is a man of valor, whose heart is like the heart of a lion, will utterly melt; for all Israel knows that your father is a mighty man and those who are with him are men of valor." 
2Samuel17:11 But I counsel that all Israel be utterly gathered to you, from Dan even to Beersheba, as the sand that is by the sea in abundance, and that you personally go into battle." 
2Samuel17:12 So we shall come to him in one of the places where he can be found, and we will set down on him as the dew falls on the ground; and of him and of all the men who are with him, not even one will be left." 
2Samuel17:13 If he withdraws into a city, then all Israel shall carry ropes to that city, and we will drag it into the valley until not even a small stone is found there.”" 
2Samuel17:14 Then Absalom and all the men of Israel said, “The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel.” For Yahweh had ordained to thwart the good counsel of Ahithophel, so that Yahweh might bring calamity on Absalom." 
2Samuel17:15 Then Hushai said to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, “This is what Ahithophel counseled Absalom and the elders of Israel, and this is what I have counseled." 
2Samuel17:16 So now, send quickly and inform David, saying, ‘Do not spend the night at the fords of the wilderness, but by all means cross over, lest the king and all the people who are with him be swallowed up.’”" 
2Samuel17:17 Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying at En-rogel, and a servant-woman would go and inform them, and they would go and inform King David, for they could not be seen entering the city." 
2Samuel17:18 But a boy did see them and informed Absalom; so the two of them went quickly and came to the house of a man in Bahurim, who had a well in his courtyard, and they went down into it." 
2Samuel17:19 And the woman took a covering and spread it over the well’s mouth and scattered crushed grain on it, so that nothing was known." 
2Samuel17:20 Then Absalom’s servants came to the woman at the house and said, “Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?” And the woman said to them, “They have crossed the brook of water.” And when they searched and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel17:21 Now it happened after they went away, that they came up out of the well and went and informed King David; and they said to David, “Arise and cross over the water quickly for thus Ahithophel has counseled against you.”" 
2Samuel17:22 Then David and all the people who were with him arose and crossed the Jordan; and by dawn not even one remained who had not crossed the Jordan. 
2Samuel17:23 Now Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed. So he saddled his donkey and arose and went to his home, to his city, and set his house in order, and strangled himself; thus he died and was buried in the grave of his father." 
2Samuel17:24 Now David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom crossed the Jordan, he and all the men of Israel with him." 
2Samuel17:25 And Absalom set Amasa over the army in place of Joab. Now Amasa was the son of a man whose name was Ithra the Israelite, who went in to Abigail the daughter of Nahash, sister of Zeruiah, Joab’s mother." 
2Samuel17:26 And Israel and Absalom camped in the land of Gilead. 
2Samuel17:27 Now it happened that when David had come to Mahanaim, Shobi the son of Nahash from Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, Machir the son of Ammiel from Lo-debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite from Rogelim," 
2Samuel17:28 brought beds, basins, pottery, wheat, barley, flour, roasted grain, beans, lentils, roasted seeds," 
2Samuel17:29 honey, curds, sheep, and cheese of the herd, for David and for the people who were with him, to eat; for they said, “The people are hungry and weary and thirsty in the wilderness.”" 
2Samuel18:1 Then David numbered the people who were with him and set over them commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds. 
2Samuel18:2 And David sent the people out, one-third under the hand of Joab, one-third under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab’s brother, and one-third under the hand of Ittai the Gittite. And the king said to the people, “I myself will surely go out with you also.”" 
2Samuel18:3 But the people said, “You should not go out; for if we indeed flee, they will not set their heart on us; even if half of us die, they will not set their heart on us. But now you are worth ten thousand of us; so now it is better that you be ready to help us from the city.”" 
2Samuel18:4 Then the king said to them, “Whatever is good in your sight I will do.” So the king stood beside the gate, and all the people went out by hundreds and thousands." 
2Samuel18:5 Then the king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, “Deal gently for my sake with the young man Absalom.” And all the people heard when the king commanded all the commanders concerning Absalom." 
2Samuel18:6 Then the people went out into the field to meet Israel, and the battle took place in the forest of Ephraim." 
2Samuel18:7 And the people of Israel were defeated there before the servants of David, and the slaughter there that day was great, 20,000 men." 
2Samuel18:8 And the battle there was scattered over the whole countryside, and the forest devoured more people that day than the sword devoured." 
2Samuel18:9 Then Absalom happened to meet the servants of David. Now Absalom was riding on his mule, and the mule went under the thick branches of a great oak. And his head caught fast in the oak, so he was left hanging between heaven and earth, while the mule that was under him passed onward." 
2Samuel18:10 Then a certain man saw it, he told Joab and said, “Behold, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak.”" 
2Samuel18:11 Then Joab said to the man who had told him, “Now behold, you saw him! Why then did you not strike him there to the ground? And I would have given you ten pieces of silver and a belt.”" 
2Samuel18:12 So the man said to Joab, “Even if I should receive one thousand pieces of silver in my hand, I would not send forth my hand against the king’s son; for in our hearing the king commanded you and Abishai and Ittai, saying, ‘Keep for me the young man Absalom!’" 
2Samuel18:13 Otherwise, if I had dealt treacherously against his life (and there is nothing hidden from the king), then you yourself would have stood aloof.”" 
2Samuel18:14 Then Joab said, “I will not wait around here before you.” So he took three spears in his hand and thrust them through the heart of Absalom while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak." 
2Samuel18:15 And ten young men who carried Joab’s armor gathered around and struck Absalom and put him to death. 
2Samuel18:16 Then Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing Israel, for Joab restrained the people." 
2Samuel18:17 And they took Absalom and cast him into a deep pit in the forest and set over him a very great heap of stones. And all Israel fled, each to his tent." 
2Samuel18:18 Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and set up for himself a pillar which is in the King’s Valley, for he had said, “I have no son to preserve my name.” So he named the pillar after his own name, and it is called Absalom’s Monument to this day." 
2Samuel18:19 Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said, “Please let me run and proclaim the good news to the king that Yahweh has judged to save him from the hand of his enemies.”" 
2Samuel18:20 But Joab said to him, “You are not the man for the good news this day, but you shall proclaim the good news another day; however, you shall not proclaim the good news today because the king’s son has died.”" 
2Samuel18:21 Then Joab said to the Cushite, “Go, tell the king what you have seen.” So the Cushite bowed to Joab and ran." 
2Samuel18:22 Now Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said once more to Joab, “But whatever happens, please let me also run after the Cushite.” And Joab said, “Why would you run, my son, since you will have no reward for going?”" 
2Samuel18:23 “But whatever happens,” he said, “I will run.” So he said to him, “Run.” Then Ahimaaz ran by way of the plain and passed the Cushite." 
2Samuel18:24 Now David was sitting between the two gates; and the watchman went up to the roof of the gate by the wall, and raised his eyes and looked, and behold, a man running by himself." 
2Samuel18:25 And the watchman called and told the king. And the king said, “If he is by himself there is good news in his mouth.” And he came nearer and nearer." 
2Samuel18:26 Then the watchman saw another man running; and the watchman called to the gatekeeper and said, “Behold, another man running by himself.” And the king said, “This one also is bringing good news.”" 
2Samuel18:27 And the watchman said, “I see that the running of the first one is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok.” And the king said, “This is a good man and comes with good news.”" 
2Samuel18:28 And Ahimaaz called and said to the king, “Peace!” And he prostrated himself before the king with his face to the ground. And he said, “Blessed is Yahweh your God, who has delivered up the men who lifted their hands against my lord the king.”" 
2Samuel18:29 Then the king said, “Is there peace with the young man Absalom?” And Ahimaaz said, “When Joab sent the king’s servant, and your servant, I saw a great tumult, but I did not know what it was.”" 
2Samuel18:30 Then the king said, “Turn aside and stand here.” So he turned aside and stood still." 
2Samuel18:31 Behold, the Cushite arrived, and the Cushite said, “Let my lord the king receive good news, for Yahweh has judged to save you this day from the hand of all those who rose up against you.”" 
2Samuel18:32 Then the king said to the Cushite, “Is there peace with the young man Absalom?” And the Cushite answered, “Let the enemies of my lord the king, and all who rise up against you for evil, be as that young man!”" 
2Samuel18:33 Then the king trembled and went up to the chamber over the gate and wept. And thus he said as he walked, “O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! Would I had died instead of you, O Absalom, my son, my son!”" 
2Samuel19:1 Then it was told to Joab, “Behold, the king is weeping and mourns for Absalom.”" 
2Samuel19:2 And the salvation that day was turned to mourning for all the people, for the people heard it said that day, “The king is grieved for his son.”" 
2Samuel19:3 So the people stole away to enter into the city that day, as people who are dishonored steal away when they flee in battle." 
2Samuel19:4 But as for the king, he wrapped his face up. Then the king cried out with a loud voice, “O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!”" 
2Samuel19:5 Then Joab came into the house to the king and said, “Today you have shamed the faces of all your servants, who today have provided escape for your life and the lives of your sons and daughters, the lives of your wives, and the lives of your concubines," 
2Samuel19:6 by loving those who hate you, and by hating those who love you. For you have informed all of us today that princes and servants are nothing to you; for I know this day that if Absalom were alive and all of us were dead today, surely then it would be right in your eyes." 
2Samuel19:7 So now, arise, go out and speak to the heart of your servants, for I swear by Yahweh, if you do not go out, surely not a man will pass the night with you, and this will be of greater evil for you than all the evil that has come upon you from your youth until now.”" 
2Samuel19:8 So the king arose and sat in the gate. And they told all the people, saying, “Behold, the king is sitting in the gate.” Then all the people came before the king. Now Israel had fled, each to his tent." 
2Samuel19:9 And it happened that all the people were disputing throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, “The king delivered us from the hand of our enemies and provided us escape from the hand of the Philistines, but now he has fled out of the land from Absalom." 
2Samuel19:10 However, Absalom, whom we anointed over us, has died in battle. So now, why are you silent about having the king return?”" 
2Samuel19:11 Now King David had sent to Zadok and Abiathar the priests, saying, “Speak to the elders of Judah, saying, ‘Why are you the last to have the king return to his house, while the word of all Israel has come to the king, even to his house?" 
2Samuel19:12 You are my brothers; you are my bone and my flesh. Why then should you be the last to have the king return?’ 
2Samuel19:13 And say to Amasa, ‘Are you not my bone and my flesh? May God do so to me, and more also, if you will not be commander of the army before me continually in place of Joab.’”" 
2Samuel19:14 Thus he inclined the hearts of all the men of Judah as one man, so they sent word to the king, saying, “Return, you and all your servants.”" 
2Samuel19:15 The king then returned and came as far as the Jordan. And Judah came to Gilgal in order to go to meet the king, to cause the king to pass over across the Jordan." 
2Samuel19:16 Then Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite who was from Bahurim, hurried and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David." 
2Samuel19:17 Now there were one thousand men of Benjamin with him, with Ziba the young man of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and his twenty servants with him; and they rushed to the Jordan before the king." 
2Samuel19:18 Then they kept passing over the ford to cause the king’s household to pass over, and to do what was good in his sight. And Shimei the son of Gera fell down before the king as he was about to pass over the Jordan." 
2Samuel19:19 So he said to the king, “Let not my lord consider me guilty, nor remember what your servant did wrong on the day when my lord the king went out from Jerusalem, so that the king would take it to heart." 
2Samuel19:20 For your servant knows that I have sinned; therefore behold, I have come today, the first of all the house of Joseph to go down to meet my lord the king.”" 
2Samuel19:21 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah said, “Should not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the anointed of Yahweh?”" 
2Samuel19:22 David then said, “What have I to do with you, O sons of Zeruiah, that you should this day be an adversary to me? Should any man be put to death in Israel today? For do I not know that I am king over Israel today?”" 
2Samuel19:23 And the king said to Shimei, “You shall not die.” Thus the king swore to him." 
2Samuel19:24 Now Mephibosheth the son of Saul had come down to meet the king; and he had not done anything for his feet, nor done anything for his mustache, nor washed his clothes, from the day the king departed until the day he came home in peace." 
2Samuel19:25 Now it happened when he came from Jerusalem to meet the king, that the king said to him, “Why did you not go with me, Mephibosheth?”" 
2Samuel19:26 So he answered, “O my lord, the king, my servant deceived me; for your servant said, ‘I will saddle a donkey for myself that I may ride on it and go with the king,’ because your servant is lame." 
2Samuel19:27 Moreover, he has slandered your servant to my lord the king; but my lord the king is like the angel of God, therefore do what is good in your sight." 
2Samuel19:28 For all my father’s household was nothing but men worthy of death before my lord the king; yet you set your servant among those who ate at your own table. What right do I have yet that I should complain anymore to the king?” 
2Samuel19:29 So the king said to him, “Why do you still speak of your affairs? I have decided, ‘You and Ziba shall divide the land.’”" 
2Samuel19:30 And Mephibosheth said to the king, “Let him even take it all, since my lord the king has come in peace to his own house.”" 
2Samuel19:31 Now Barzillai the Gileadite had come down from Rogelim; and he passed over the Jordan with the king in order to send him off over the Jordan. 
2Samuel19:32 Now Barzillai was very old, being eighty years old; and he had sustained the king while he stayed at Mahanaim, for he was a very great man." 
2Samuel19:33 And the king said to Barzillai, “You pass over with me and I will sustain you in Jerusalem with me.”" 
2Samuel19:34 But Barzillai said to the king, “How long have I yet to live, that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem?" 
2Samuel19:35 I am now eighty years old. Can I know between good and bad? Or can your servant taste what I eat or what I drink? Or can I hear anymore the voice of singing men and women? Why then should your servant be an added burden to my lord the king? 
2Samuel19:36 Your servant would merely pass over the Jordan with the king. Why should the king compensate me with this reward? 
2Samuel19:37 Please let your servant return, that I may die in my own city near the grave of my father and my mother. However, here is your servant Chimham, let him pass over with my lord the king, and do for him what is good in your sight.”" 
2Samuel19:38 So the king answered, “Chimham shall pass over with me, and I will do for him what is good in your sight; and whatever you require of me, I will do for you.”" 
2Samuel19:39 Then all the people passed over the Jordan and the king passed over too. The king then kissed Barzillai and blessed him, and he returned to his place." 
2Samuel19:40 Now the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him; and all the people of Judah and also half the people of Israel accompanied the king." 
2Samuel19:41 And behold, all the men of Israel came to the king and said to the king, “Why had our brothers the men of Judah stolen you away, and caused the king and his household and all David’s men with him to pass over the Jordan?”" 
2Samuel19:42 Then all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, “Because the king is a close relative to us. Why then are you angry about this matter? Have we eaten at all at the king’s expense, or has anything been taken for us?”" 
2Samuel19:43 But the men of Israel answered the men of Judah and said, “We have ten parts in the king, therefore we also have more claim on David than you. Why then did you treat us with contempt? Was it not our word first to have our king return?” Yet the words of the men of Judah were harsher than the words of the men of Israel." 
2Samuel20:1 Now a vile fellow happened to be there whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite; and he blew the trumpet and said, “We have no portion in David, Nor do we have inheritance in the son of Jesse; Every man to his tents, O Israel!”" 
2Samuel20:2 So all the men of Israel went up from following David and followed Sheba the son of Bichri; but the men of Judah clung to their king, from the Jordan even to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel20:3 Then David came to his house at Jerusalem, and the king took the ten women, the concubines whom he had left to keep the house, and placed them under guard and provided them with sustenance, but did not go in to them. So they were shut up until the day of their death, living as widows." 
2Samuel20:4 Then the king said to Amasa, “Call out the men of Judah for me within three days, and you yourself stand here.”" 
2Samuel20:5 So Amasa went to call out the men of Judah, but he delayed longer than the set time which he had appointed him." 
2Samuel20:6 And David said to Abishai, “Now Sheba the son of Bichri will do us more harm than Absalom; take your lord’s servants and pursue him, lest he find for himself fortified cities and deliver himself from our sight.”" 
2Samuel20:7 So Joab’s men pursued him, along with the Cherethites and the Pelethites and all the mighty men; and they went out from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri." 
2Samuel20:8 They were at the large stone which is in Gibeon, and Amasa came to meet them. Now Joab was dressed in his military attire, and over it was a belt with a sword in its sheath fastened at his waist; and as he came out, it fell out." 
2Samuel20:9 Then Joab said to Amasa, “Is it well with you, my brother?” And Joab took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him." 
2Samuel20:10 But Amasa was not on guard against the sword which was in Joab’s hand so he struck him in the belly with it and poured out his inward parts on the ground, and did not strike him again, and he died. Then Joab and Abishai his brother pursued Sheba the son of Bichri." 
2Samuel20:11 Now there stood by him one of Joab’s young men, and said, “Whoever delights in Joab and whoever is for David, let him follow Joab.”" 
2Samuel20:12 But Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the middle of the highway. And the man saw that all the people stood still. So he removed Amasa from the highway into the field and threw a garment over him when he saw that everyone who came by him stood still. 
2Samuel20:13 As soon as he was removed from the highway, all the men passed on after Joab to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri." 
2Samuel20:14 Now he went through all the tribes of Israel to Abel, even Beth-maacah, and all the Berites; and they were assembled and also came after him." 
2Samuel20:15 So they came and besieged him in Abel Beth-maacah, and they cast up a siege ramp against the city, and it stood by the rampart; and all the people who were with Joab were wreaking destruction in order to cause the wall to fall." 
2Samuel20:16 Then a wise woman called from the city, “Hear, hear! Please tell Joab, ‘Draw near that I may speak with you.’”" 
2Samuel20:17 So he drew near to her, and the woman said, “Are you Joab?” And he answered, “I am.” Then she said to him, “Listen to the words of your maidservant.” And he answered, “I am listening.”" 
2Samuel20:18 Then she spoke, saying, “Formerly they used to speak in this way, saying, ‘They will surely ask advice at Abel,’ and thus they ended the dispute." 
2Samuel20:19 I am of those who are peaceable and faithful in Israel. You are seeking to put to death a city, even a mother in Israel. Why would you swallow up the inheritance of Yahweh?”" 
2Samuel20:20 And Joab answered and said, “Far be it, far be it from me that I should swallow up or destroy!" 
2Samuel20:21 Such is not the case. But a man from the hill country of Ephraim, Sheba the son of Bichri by name, has lifted up his hand against King David. Give him over alone, and I will go from the city.” And the woman said to Joab, “Behold, his head will be thrown to you over the wall.”" 
2Samuel20:22 Then the woman came to all the people in her wisdom. And they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri and threw it to Joab. So he blew the trumpet, and they were scattered from the city, each to his tent. Joab also returned to the king at Jerusalem." 
2Samuel20:23 Now Joab was over the whole army of Israel, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites;" 
2Samuel20:24 and Adoram was over the forced labor, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the recorder;" 
2Samuel20:25 and Sheva was scribe, and Zadok and Abiathar were priests;" 
2Samuel20:26 and Ira the Jairite was also a priest to David. 
2Samuel21:1 And there was a famine in the days of David for three years, year after year; and David sought the presence of Yahweh. And Yahweh said, “It is for Saul and his bloody house, because he put the Gibeonites to death.”" 
2Samuel21:2 So the king called the Gibeonites and spoke to them (now the Gibeonites were not of the sons of Israel but of the remnant of the Amorites, and the sons of Israel made a covenant with them, but Saul had sought to strike them down in his zeal for the sons of Israel and Judah)." 
2Samuel21:3 Thus David said to the Gibeonites, “What should I do for you? And how can I make atonement that you may bless the inheritance of Yahweh?”" 
2Samuel21:4 Then the Gibeonites said to him, “We have no concern of silver or gold with Saul or his house, nor is it for us to put any man to death in Israel.” And he said, “I will do for you whatever you say.”" 
2Samuel21:5 So they said to the king, “The man who consumed us and who planned to eradicate us from standing within any border of Israel," 
2Samuel21:6 let seven men from his sons be given to us, and we will hang them before Yahweh in Gibeah of Saul, the chosen of Yahweh.” And the king said, “I will give them.”" 
2Samuel21:7 But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan the son of Saul, because of the oath of Yahweh which was between them, between David and Saul’s son Jonathan." 
2Samuel21:8 So the king took the two sons of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, Armoni and Mephibosheth whom she had borne to Saul, and the five sons of Merab the daughter of Saul, whom she had borne to Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite." 
2Samuel21:9 Then he gave them into the hand of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the mountain before Yahweh, so that the seven of them fell together; and they were put to death in the first days of harvest at the beginning of barley harvest." 
2Samuel21:10 And Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth and spread it for herself on the rock, from the beginning of harvest until it rained on them from the sky; and she allowed neither the birds of the sky to rest on them by day nor the beasts of the field by night." 
2Samuel21:11 Then it was told to David what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Saul, had done." 
2Samuel21:12 So David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from the men of Jabesh-gilead, who had stolen them from the open square of Beth-shan, where the Philistines had hanged them on the day the Philistines struck down Saul in Gilboa." 
2Samuel21:13 And he brought up the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from there, and they gathered the bones of those who had been hanged." 
2Samuel21:14 Then they buried the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son in the land of Benjamin in Zela, in the grave of Kish his father; thus they did all that the king commanded, and afterwards God was moved by the entreaty for the land." 
2Samuel21:15 And the Philistines were at war again with Israel, so David went down and his servants with him; and as they fought against the Philistines, David became weary." 
2Samuel21:16 Then Ishbi-benob, who was among those born to the giants, the weight of whose spear was three hundred shekels of bronze in weight, was girded with a new sword, and he intended to strike down David." 
2Samuel21:17 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah helped him, and struck the Philistine and put him to death. Then the men of David swore to him, saying, “You shall not go out again with us to battle, so that you do not extinguish the lamp of Israel.”" 
2Samuel21:18 Now it happened afterwards that there was war again with the Philistines at Gob; then Sibbecai the Hushathite struck down Saph, who was among those born to the giants." 
2Samuel21:19 There was war with the Philistines again at Gob, and Elhanan the son of Jaare-oregim the Bethlehemite struck down Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like a weaver’s beam." 
2Samuel21:20 Then there was war at Gath again, and there was a man of great stature who had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot, twenty-four in number; and he also had been born to the giants." 
2Samuel21:21 And he reproached Israel, so Jonathan the son of Shimei, David’s brother, struck him down." 
2Samuel21:22 These four were born to the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants." 
2Samuel22:1 And David spoke to Yahweh the words of this song in the day that Yahweh delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. 
2Samuel22:2 He said, “Yahweh is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer;" 
2Samuel22:3 My God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold and my refuge; My savior, You save me from violence." 
2Samuel22:4 I call upon Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised, And I am saved from my enemies." 
2Samuel22:5 For the waves of death encompassed me; The torrents of vileness terrorized me; 
2Samuel22:6 The cords of Sheol surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me. 
2Samuel22:7 In my distress I called upon Yahweh, And I called to my God; And out of His temple He heard my voice, And my cry for help came into His ears." 
2Samuel22:8 Then the earth shook and quaked; The foundations of heaven were trembling And were shaken, because He was angry." 
2Samuel22:9 Smoke went up out of His nostrils, And fire from His mouth devoured; Coals were kindled by it." 
2Samuel22:10 He bowed the heavens and came down With thick darkness under His feet. 
2Samuel22:11 He rode on a cherub and flew; And He appeared upon the wings of the wind. 
2Samuel22:12 And He made darkness canopies around Him, A mass of waters, thick clouds of the skies." 
2Samuel22:13 From the brightness before Him Coals of fire were kindled. 
2Samuel22:14 Yahweh thundered from heaven, And the Most High gave forth His voice." 
2Samuel22:15 And He sent out arrows, and scattered them, Lightning, and threw them into confusion." 
2Samuel22:16 Then the channels of the sea appeared, The foundations of the world were laid bare By the rebuke of Yahweh, At the blast of the breath of His nostrils." 
2Samuel22:17 He sent from on high, He took me; He drew me out of many waters." 
2Samuel22:18 He delivered me from my strong enemy, From those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me." 
2Samuel22:19 They confronted me in the day of my disaster, But Yahweh was my support." 
2Samuel22:20 He brought me forth also into a broad place; He rescued me, because He delighted in me." 
2Samuel22:21 Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands He has recompensed me. 
2Samuel22:22 For I have kept the ways of Yahweh, And have not wickedly departed from my God." 
2Samuel22:23 For all His judgments were before me, And as for His statutes, I did not depart from them." 
2Samuel22:24 I was also blameless toward Him, And I kept myself from my iniquity." 
2Samuel22:25 Therefore Yahweh has recompensed me according to my righteousness, According to my cleanness before His eyes." 
2Samuel22:26 With the kind You show Yourself kind, With the blameless You show Yourself blameless;" 
2Samuel22:27 With the pure You show Yourself pure, And with the crooked You show Yourself astute." 
2Samuel22:28 And You save an afflicted people; But Your eyes are on the haughty whom You bring down. 
2Samuel22:29 For You are my lamp, O Yahweh; And Yahweh illumines my darkness." 
2Samuel22:30 For by You I can run upon a troop; By my God I can leap over a wall. 
2Samuel22:31 As for God, His way is blameless; The word of Yahweh is tried; He is a shield to all who take refuge in Him." 
2Samuel22:32 For who is God, but Yahweh? And who is a rock, but our God?" 
2Samuel22:33 God is my strong fortress; And He sets the blameless in His way. 
2Samuel22:34 He makes my feet like hinds’ feet, And sets me on my high places." 
2Samuel22:35 He trains my hands for battle, So that my arms can bend a bow of bronze." 
2Samuel22:36 You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, And Your answer to me makes me great." 
2Samuel22:37 You enlarge my steps under me, And my ankles have not given way." 
2Samuel22:38 I pursued my enemies and destroyed them, And I did not turn back until they were consumed." 
2Samuel22:39 And I have consumed them and crushed them, so that they did not rise; And they fell under my feet." 
2Samuel22:40 For You have girded me with strength for battle; You have subdued under me those who rose up against me. 
2Samuel22:41 You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, And I destroyed those who hated me." 
2Samuel22:42 They looked, but there was none to save; Even to Yahweh, but He did not answer them." 
2Samuel22:43 Then I beat them fine as the dust of the earth; I pulverized and stamped them as the mire of the streets. 
2Samuel22:44 You have also delivered me from the contentions of my people; You have kept me as head of the nations; A people whom I have not known serve me. 
2Samuel22:45 Foreigners cower before me; As soon as they hear, they obey me." 
2Samuel22:46 Foreigners fade away, And come trembling out of their fortresses." 
2Samuel22:47 Yahweh lives, and blessed be my rock; And let God, the rock of my salvation, be lifted high," 
2Samuel22:48 The God who executes vengeance for me, And brings down peoples under me," 
2Samuel22:49 Who also brings me out from my enemies; You even lift me above those who rise up against me; You rescue me from the violent man. 
2Samuel22:50 Therefore I will give thanks to You, O Yahweh, among the nations, And I will sing praises to Your name." 
2Samuel22:51 He gives great salvation to His king, And shows lovingkindness to His anointed, To David and his seed forever.”" 
2Samuel23:1 Now these are the last words of David. David the son of Jesse declares, The man who was raised on high declares, The anointed of the God of Jacob, And the sweet psalmist of Israel," 
2Samuel23:2 “The Spirit of Yahweh spoke by me, And His word was on my tongue." 
2Samuel23:3 The God of Israel said, The Rock of Israel spoke to me, ‘He who rules over men as a righteous one, Who rules in the fear of God," 
2Samuel23:4 Is as the light of the morning when the sun rises, A morning without clouds, From brightness of the sun after rain.’ With the tender grass springing from the earth," 
2Samuel23:5 Truly is not my house so with God? For He has made an everlasting covenant with me, Ordered in all things, and secured; For all my salvation and all my desire, Will He not indeed make it grow?" 
2Samuel23:6 But the vile men, every one of them will be thrust away like thorns, Because they cannot be taken in hand;" 
2Samuel23:7 But the man who touches them Must be armed with iron and the shaft of a spear, And they will be completely burned with fire where they sit.”" 
2Samuel23:8 These are the names of the mighty men whom David had: Josheb-basshebeth a Tahchemonite, chief of the captains, he was called Adino the Eznite, because of eight hundred slain by him at one time;" 
2Samuel23:9 and after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo the son of Ahohi, one of the three mighty men with David when they reproached the Philistines who were gathered together there to battle and the men of Israel had gone up to retreat." 
2Samuel23:10 He arose and struck the Philistines until his hand was weary and clung to the sword, and Yahweh brought about a great salvation that day; and the people returned after him only to strip the slain." 
2Samuel23:11 Now after him was Shammah the son of Agee a Hararite. And the Philistines were gathered into a troop where there was a portion of the field full of lentils; and the people fled from before the Philistines. 
2Samuel23:12 But he took his stand in the midst of that portion and delivered it and struck down the Philistines. So Yahweh brought about a great salvation. 
2Samuel23:13 Then three of the thirty chief men went down and came to David in the harvest time to the cave of Adullam, while the troop of the Philistines was camping in the valley of Rephaim." 
2Samuel23:14 And David was then in the fortress, while the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem." 
2Samuel23:15 Then David had a craving and said, “Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!”" 
2Samuel23:16 So the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water from the well of Bethlehem which was by the gate, and carried it and brought it to David. Nevertheless, he was not willing to drink it, but poured it out to Yahweh;" 
2Samuel23:17 and he said, “Be it far from me, O Yahweh, that I should do this. Shall I drink the blood of the men who went at the risk of their lives?” Therefore he was not willing to drink it. These things the three mighty men did." 
2Samuel23:18 Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of the thirty. And he swung his spear against three hundred who were slain by him; and he had a name as well as the three." 
2Samuel23:19 Of the thirty he was most honored and became their commander; however, he did not attain to the three." 
2Samuel23:20 Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, mighty in deeds, struck down the two sons of Ariel of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in the midst of a pit on a snowy day." 
2Samuel23:21 He had also struck down an Egyptian, an impressive man. Now in the Egyptian’s hand was a spear, but he went down to him with a club and snatched the spear from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear." 
2Samuel23:22 These things Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and had a name as well as the three mighty men." 
2Samuel23:23 He was honored among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David appointed him over his guard." 
2Samuel23:24 Asahel the brother of Joab was among the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem," 
2Samuel23:25 Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite," 
2Samuel23:26 Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite," 
2Samuel23:27 Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite," 
2Samuel23:28 Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite," 
2Samuel23:29 Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the sons of Benjamin," 
2Samuel23:30 Benaiah a Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash," 
2Samuel23:31 Abi-albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite," 
2Samuel23:32 Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan," 
2Samuel23:33 Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Ararite," 
2Samuel23:34 Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maacathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite," 
2Samuel23:35 Hezro the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite," 
2Samuel23:36 Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite," 
2Samuel23:37 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, armor bearers of Joab the son of Zeruiah," 
2Samuel23:38 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite," 
2Samuel23:39 Uriah the Hittite; thirty-seven in all. 
2Samuel24:1 And again the anger of Yahweh burned against Israel, and it incited David against them to say, “Go, number Israel and Judah.”" 
2Samuel24:2 So the king said to Joab the commander of the military force who was with him, “Go about now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, and take a census of the people, that I may know the total count of the people.”" 
2Samuel24:3 But Joab said to the king, “Now may Yahweh your God add to the people a hundred times as many as they are, while the eyes of my lord the king still see; but why does my lord the king delight in this thing?”" 
2Samuel24:4 Nevertheless, the king’s word stood strong against Joab and against the commanders of the military force. So Joab and the commanders of the military force went out from the presence of the king to take a census of the people of Israel." 
2Samuel24:5 And they crossed the Jordan and camped in Aroer, on the right side of the city that is in the middle of the valley of Gad and toward Jazer." 
2Samuel24:6 Then they came to Gilead and to the land of Tahtim-hodshi, and they came to Dan-jaan and around to Sidon," 
2Samuel24:7 and came to the fortified city of Tyre and to all the cities of the Hivites and of the Canaanites, and they went out to the south of Judah, to Beersheba." 
2Samuel24:8 So they had gone about through the whole land, and they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days." 
2Samuel24:9 And Joab gave the total count of the census of the people to the king; and there were in Israel 800,000 valiant men who drew the sword, and the men of Judah were 500,000 men." 
2Samuel24:10 Then David’s heart struck him after he had counted the people. So David said to Yahweh, “I have sinned greatly in what I have done. But now, O Yahweh, please take away the iniquity of Your slave, for I have acted very foolishly.”" 
2Samuel24:11 Then David arose in the morning, and the word of Yahweh came to the prophet Gad, David’s seer, saying," 
2Samuel24:12 “Go and speak to David, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “I am offering you three things; choose for yourself one of them, and I will do that to you.”’”" 
2Samuel24:13 So Gad came to David and told him, and said to him, “Shall seven years of famine come to you in your land? Or will you flee three months before your adversaries while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days’ pestilence in your land? Now, know and see what word I should return to Him who sent me.”" 
2Samuel24:14 Then David said to Gad, “I am in great distress. Let us now fall into the hand of Yahweh, for His compassions are abundant. But do not let me fall into the hand of man.”" 
2Samuel24:15 So Yahweh sent a pestilence against Israel from the morning until the appointed time, and 70,000 men of the people from Dan to Beersheba died." 
2Samuel24:16 Then the angel sent forth his hand toward Jerusalem to destroy it, and Yahweh relented of the calamity and said to the angel who destroyed the people, “It is enough! Now relax your hand!” And the angel of Yahweh was by the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite." 
2Samuel24:17 Then David spoke to Yahweh when he saw the angel who was striking down the people, and said, “Behold, it is I who have sinned, and it is I who have done unrighteousness; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let Your hand be against me and my father’s house.”" 
2Samuel24:18 So Gad came to David that day and said to him, “Go up, erect an altar to Yahweh on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.”" 
2Samuel24:19 So David went up according to the word of Gad, just as Yahweh had commanded." 
2Samuel24:20 And Araunah looked down and saw the king and his servants crossing over toward him; and Araunah went out and bowed his face to the ground before the king. 
2Samuel24:21 Then Araunah said, “Why has my lord the king come to his servant?” And David said, “To buy the threshing floor from you, in order to build an altar to Yahweh, that the plague may be checked from being upon the people.”" 
2Samuel24:22 And Araunah said to David, “Let my lord the king take and offer up what is good in his sight. Look, the oxen for the burnt offering, the threshing sledges and the yokes of the oxen for the wood." 
2Samuel24:23 Everything, O king, Araunah gives to the king.” And Araunah said to the king, “May Yahweh your God accept you.”" 
2Samuel24:24 However, the king said to Araunah, “No, but I will surely buy it from you for a price, for I will not offer burnt offerings to Yahweh my God which cost me nothing.” So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver." 
2Samuel24:25 Then David built there an altar to Yahweh and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. Thus Yahweh was moved by the entreaty for the land, and the plague was checked from being upon Israel." 
1Kings1:1 Now King David was old, advanced in age; and they covered him with clothes, but he could not keep warm." 
1Kings1:2 So his servants said to him, “Let them seek a young virgin for my lord the king, and let her stand before the king and become his nurse; and let her lie in your bosom, that my lord the king may keep warm.”" 
1Kings1:3 So they sought for a beautiful young woman throughout all the territory of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king." 
1Kings1:4 Now the young woman was very beautiful; and she became the king’s nurse and attended him, but the king did not know her." 
1Kings1:5 Now Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, “I will be king.” So he prepared for himself a chariot and horsemen and fifty men as runners before him." 
1Kings1:6 But his father had never grieved him at any time by asking, “Why have you done so?” And he was also a very handsome man in form, and he was born after Absalom." 
1Kings1:7 And he had conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah and with Abiathar the priest; and following Adonijah, they helped him." 
1Kings1:8 But Zadok the priest, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, Nathan the prophet, Shimei, Rei, and the mighty men who belonged to David, were not with Adonijah." 
1Kings1:9 And Adonijah sacrificed sheep and oxen and fatlings by the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En-rogel; and he invited all his brothers, the king’s sons, and all the men of Judah, the king’s servants." 
1Kings1:10 But he did not invite Nathan the prophet, Benaiah, the mighty men, and Solomon his brother." 
1Kings1:11 Then Nathan spoke to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, saying, “Have you not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith has become king, and David our lord does not know it?" 
1Kings1:12 So now come, please let me give you counsel and provide escape for your life and the life of your son Solomon." 
1Kings1:13 Go at once to King David and say to him, ‘Have you not, my lord, O king, sworn to your maidservant, saying, “Surely Solomon your son shall be king after me, and he shall sit on my throne”? Why then has Adonijah become king?’" 
1Kings1:14 Behold, while you are still there speaking with the king, I will come in after you and fully confirm your words.”" 
1Kings1:15 So Bathsheba went in to the king in the bedroom. Now the king was very old, and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering to the king." 
1Kings1:16 Then Bathsheba bowed and prostrated herself before the king. And the king said, “What do you wish?”" 
1Kings1:17 And she said to him, “My lord, you swore to your maidservant by Yahweh your God, saying, ‘Surely your son Solomon shall be king after me and he shall sit on my throne.’" 
1Kings1:18 But now, behold, Adonijah is king; and now, my lord the king, you do not know it." 
1Kings1:19 And he has sacrificed oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the sons of the king and Abiathar the priest and Joab the commander of the army, but he has not invited Solomon your servant." 
1Kings1:20 As for you now, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are on you, to tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him." 
1Kings1:21 Otherwise it will be, as soon as my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon will be considered offenders.”" 
1Kings1:22 Behold, while she was still speaking with the king, Nathan the prophet came in." 
1Kings1:23 Then they told the king, saying, “Here is Nathan the prophet.” And then he came in before the king and prostrated himself before the king with his face to the ground." 
1Kings1:24 Then Nathan said, “My lord the king, have you said, ‘Adonijah shall be king after me, and he shall sit on my throne’?" 
1Kings1:25 For he has gone down today and has sacrificed oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the king’s sons and the commanders of the army and Abiathar the priest, and behold, they are eating and drinking before him; and they say, ‘Long live King Adonijah!’" 
1Kings1:26 But me, even me your servant, and Zadok the priest and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and your servant Solomon, he has not invited." 
1Kings1:27 Has this thing happened by my lord the king, and you have not made known to your servants who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?”" 
1Kings1:28 Then King David answered and said, “Call Bathsheba to me.” And she came into the king’s presence and stood before the king." 
1Kings1:29 And the king swore and said, “As Yahweh lives, who has redeemed my life from all distress," 
1Kings1:30 surely as I swore to you by Yahweh, the God of Israel, saying, ‘Surely your son Solomon shall be king after me, and he shall sit on my throne in my place’; I will surely do so this day.”" 
1Kings1:31 Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the ground, and prostrated herself before the king and said, “May my lord King David live forever.”" 
1Kings1:32 Then King David said, “Call to me Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada.” And they came into the king’s presence." 
1Kings1:33 And the king said to them, “Take with you the servants of your lord, and have my son Solomon ride on my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon." 
1Kings1:34 And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet shall anoint him there as king over Israel and blow the trumpet and say, ‘Long live King Solomon!’" 
1Kings1:35 Then you shall come up after him, and he shall come and sit on my throne. And he shall be king in my place; for I have commanded him to be ruler over Israel and Judah.”" 
1Kings1:36 Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king and said, “Amen! Thus may Yahweh, the God of my lord the king, say." 
1Kings1:37 As Yahweh has been with my lord the king, so may He be with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord King David!”" 
1Kings1:38 So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites, and the Pelethites went down and had Solomon ride on King David’s mule, and brought him to Gihon." 
1Kings1:39 Zadok the priest then took the horn of oil from the tent and anointed Solomon. Then they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, “Long live King Solomon!”" 
1Kings1:40 And all the people went up after him, and the people were playing on flutes and were glad with great gladness, so that the earth shook at their sound." 
1Kings1:41 And Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they finished eating. Then Joab heard the sound of the trumpet and said, “Why is the sound of the city such an uproar?”" 
1Kings1:42 While he was still speaking, behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came. Then Adonijah said, “Come in, for you are a valiant man and bring good news.”" 
1Kings1:43 But Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, “No! Our lord King David has made Solomon king." 
1Kings1:44 The king has also sent with him Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites, and the Pelethites; and they have made him ride on the king’s mule." 
1Kings1:45 And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon, and they have come up from there with gladness, so that the city is in an uproar. This is the sound which you have heard." 
1Kings1:46 And also, Solomon has even taken his seat on the throne of the kingdom." 
1Kings1:47 And also, the king’s servants came to bless our lord King David, saying, ‘May your God make the name of Solomon better than your name and his throne greater than your throne!’ And the king bowed himself on the bed." 
1Kings1:48 And also, the king said thus, ‘Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, who has granted one to sit on my throne today while my own eyes see it.’”" 
1Kings1:49 Then all the guests of Adonijah trembled; and they arose and each went on his way. 
1Kings1:50 And Adonijah was afraid of Solomon, and he arose, went, and took hold of the horns of the altar." 
1Kings1:51 Then it was told to Solomon, saying, “Behold, Adonijah is afraid of King Solomon, and behold, he has taken hold of the horns of the altar, saying, ‘Let King Solomon swear to me today that he will not put his servant to death with the sword.’”" 
1Kings1:52 And Solomon said, “If he is a worthy man, not one of his hairs will fall to the ground; but if evil is found in him, he will die.”" 
1Kings1:53 So King Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and prostrated himself before King Solomon, and Solomon said to him, “Go to your house.”" 
1Kings2:1 Then David’s time to die drew near, so he commanded Solomon his son, saying," 
1Kings2:2 “I am going the way of all the earth. So you shall be strong, and be a man." 
1Kings2:3 And you shall keep the responsibility given by Yahweh your God, to walk in His ways, to keep His statutes, His commandments, His judgments, and His testimonies, according to what is written in the Law of Moses, that you may be prosperous in all that you do and wherever you turn," 
1Kings2:4 so that Yahweh may establish His promise which He spoke concerning me, saying, ‘If your sons keep their way, to walk before Me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, He said, you shall not have a man cut off from the throne of Israel.’" 
1Kings2:5 “Now you also know what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, what he did to the two commanders of the armies of Israel, to Abner the son of Ner, and to Amasa the son of Jether, whom he killed; he also shed the blood of war in peace. And he put the blood of war on his belt about his waist, and on his sandals on his feet." 
1Kings2:6 So act according to your wisdom, and do not let his gray hair go down to Sheol in peace." 
1Kings2:7 But show lovingkindness to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be among those who eat at your table; for they assisted me when I fled from Absalom your brother." 
1Kings2:8 Behold, there is with you Shimei the son of Gera the Benjamite, of Bahurim; now it was he who cursed me with a violent curse on the day I went to Mahanaim. But when he came down to me at the Jordan, I swore to him by Yahweh, saying, ‘I will not put you to death with the sword.’" 
1Kings2:9 So now, do not let him go unpunished, for you are a wise man; and you will know what you ought to do to him, and you will bring his gray hair down to Sheol with blood.”" 
1Kings2:10 Then David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David. 
1Kings2:11 And the time which David reigned over Israel was forty years; in Hebron he reigned seven years and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years. 
1Kings2:12 And Solomon sat on the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was firmly established." 
1Kings2:13 Then Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon. And she said, “Do you come peacefully?” And he said, “Peacefully.”" 
1Kings2:14 Then he said, “I have something to say to you.” And she said, “Speak.”" 
1Kings2:15 So he said, “You know that the kingdom was mine and that all Israel expected me to be king; however, the kingdom has turned about and become my brother’s, for it was his from Yahweh." 
1Kings2:16 So now, I am making one request of you; do not turn me away.” And she said to him, “Speak.”" 
1Kings2:17 Then he said, “Please speak to Solomon the king, for he will not turn you away, that he may give me Abishag the Shunammite as a wife.”" 
1Kings2:18 And Bathsheba said, “Very well; I will speak to the king for you.”" 
1Kings2:19 So Bathsheba went to King Solomon to speak to him for Adonijah. And the king arose to meet her, bowed before her, and sat on his throne; then he had a throne set for the king’s mother, and she sat on his right." 
1Kings2:20 Then she said, “I am making one small request of you; do not turn me away.” And the king said to her, “Ask, my mother, for I will not turn you away.”" 
1Kings2:21 So she said, “Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your brother as a wife.”" 
1Kings2:22 Then King Solomon answered and said to his mother, “And why are you asking Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Ask for him also the kingdom—for he is my older brother—even for him, for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah!”" 
1Kings2:23 Then King Solomon swore by Yahweh, saying, “May God do so to me and more also, if Adonijah has not spoken this word against his own life." 
1Kings2:24 So now, as Yahweh lives, who has established me and set me on the throne of David my father and who has made me a house as He promised, surely Adonijah shall be put to death today.”" 
1Kings2:25 So King Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; and he fell upon him so that he died. 
1Kings2:26 Then to Abiathar the priest the king said, “Go to Anathoth to your own field, for you deserve to die; but I will not put you to death at this time, because you carried the ark of Lord Yahweh before my father David, and because you were afflicted in everything with which my father was afflicted.”" 
1Kings2:27 So Solomon drove Abiathar away from being priest to Yahweh, in order to fulfill the word of Yahweh, which He had spoken concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh." 
1Kings2:28 Now the news came to Joab, for Joab had followed Adonijah, although he had not followed Absalom. And Joab fled to the tent of Yahweh and took hold of the horns of the altar." 
1Kings2:29 And it was told to King Solomon that Joab had fled to the tent of Yahweh, and behold, he is beside the altar. Then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, “Go, fall upon him.”" 
1Kings2:30 So Benaiah came to the tent of Yahweh and said to him, “Thus the king has said, ‘Come out.’” But he said, “No, for I will die here.” And Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, “Thus spoke Joab, and thus he answered me.”" 
1Kings2:31 And the king said to him, “Do as he has spoken and fall upon him and bury him, that you may remove from me and from my father’s house the blood which Joab shed without cause." 
1Kings2:32 And Yahweh will return his blood on his own head, because he fell upon two men more righteous and better than he and killed them with the sword, but my father David did not know it: Abner the son of Ner, commander of the army of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, commander of the army of Judah." 
1Kings2:33 So shall their blood return on the head of Joab and on the head of his seed forever; but to David and his seed and his house and his throne, may there be peace from Yahweh forever.”" 
1Kings2:34 Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up and fell upon him and put him to death, and he was buried at his own house in the wilderness." 
1Kings2:35 And the king appointed Benaiah the son of Jehoiada over the army in his place, and the king appointed Zadok the priest in the place of Abiathar." 
1Kings2:36 Then the king sent and called for Shimei and said to him, “Build for yourself a house in Jerusalem and live there, and do not go out from there to any place." 
1Kings2:37 Now it will be on the day you go out and cross over the brook Kidron, that you will know for certain that you shall surely die; your blood shall be on your own head.”" 
1Kings2:38 Shimei then said to the king, “The word is good. As my lord the king has said, so your servant will do.” So Shimei lived in Jerusalem many days." 
1Kings2:39 But it happened at the end of three years, that two of the slaves of Shimei ran away to Achish son of Maacah, king of Gath. And they told Shimei, saying, “Behold, your slaves are in Gath.”" 
1Kings2:40 Then Shimei arose and saddled his donkey, and went to Gath to Achish to search for his slaves. And Shimei went and brought his slaves from Gath." 
1Kings2:41 And it was told to Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath, and had returned." 
1Kings2:42 So the king sent and called for Shimei and said to him, “Did I not make you swear by Yahweh and solemnly warn you, saying, ‘You will know for certain that on the day you go out and go anywhere, you shall surely die’? And you said to me, ‘The word which I have heard is good.’" 
1Kings2:43 Why then have you not kept the oath of Yahweh, and the command which I have commanded you?”" 
1Kings2:44 The king also said to Shimei, “You know all the evil which you acknowledge in your heart, which you did to my father David; therefore Yahweh shall return your evil on your own head." 
1Kings2:45 But King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before Yahweh forever.”" 
1Kings2:46 So the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he went out and fell upon him so that he died. Thus the kingdom was established in the hands of Solomon." 
1Kings3:1 Then Solomon formed a marriage alliance with Pharaoh king of Egypt, and took Pharaoh’s daughter and brought her to the city of David until he had completed building his own house and the house of Yahweh and the wall around Jerusalem." 
1Kings3:2 The people were still sacrificing on the high places because there was no house built for the name of Yahweh until those days. 
1Kings3:3 And Solomon loved Yahweh, walking in the statutes of his father David, except he sacrificed and burned incense on the high places." 
1Kings3:4 And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place; Solomon offered one thousand burnt offerings on that altar." 
1Kings3:5 In Gibeon, Yahweh appeared to Solomon in a dream at night; and God said, “Ask what I should give to you.”" 
1Kings3:6 Then Solomon said, “You have shown great lovingkindness to Your slave David my father, according to how he walked before You in truth and righteousness and uprightness of heart toward You; and You have kept for him this great lovingkindness, that You have given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day." 
1Kings3:7 So now, O Yahweh my God, You have made Your slave king in place of my father David, yet I am but a little child; I do not know how to go out or come in." 
1Kings3:8 And Your slave is in the midst of Your people which You have chosen, a numerous people who are too many to be numbered or counted." 
1Kings3:9 So give Your slave a listening heart to judge Your people to discern between good and evil. For who is able to judge this glorious people of Yours?” 
1Kings3:10 And it was pleasing in the sight of the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. 
1Kings3:11 And God said to him, “Because you have asked this thing and have not asked for yourself long life, nor have asked riches for yourself, nor have you asked for the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself discernment to listen to justice," 
1Kings3:12 behold, I have done according to your words. Behold, I have given you a wise and discerning heart, so that there has been no one like you before you, nor shall one like you arise after you." 
1Kings3:13 I have also given you what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there will not be any among the kings like you all your days." 
1Kings3:14 Now if you walk in My ways, keeping My statutes and commandments, as your father David walked, then I will prolong your days.”" 
1Kings3:15 Then Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And he came to Jerusalem and stood before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and offered burnt offerings and made peace offerings, and made a feast for all his servants." 
1Kings3:16 Then two women who were harlots came to the king and stood before him. 
1Kings3:17 And the one woman said, “Oh, my lord, this woman and I live in the same house; and I gave birth to a child while she was in the house." 
1Kings3:18 And it happened on the third day after I gave birth, that this woman also gave birth to a child, and we were together. There was no stranger with us in the house, only the two of us in the house." 
1Kings3:19 And this woman’s son died in the night because she lay on him. 
1Kings3:20 So she arose in the middle of the night and took my son from beside me while your maidservant slept, and laid him in her bosom, and laid her dead son in my bosom." 
1Kings3:21 When I rose in the morning to nurse my son, behold, he was dead; but when I looked at him carefully in the morning, behold, he was not my son, whom I had borne.”" 
1Kings3:22 Then the other woman said, “No! For the living one is my son, and the dead one is your son.” But the first woman said, “No! For the dead one is your son, and the living one is my son.” Thus they spoke before the king." 
1Kings3:23 Then the king said, “The one says, ‘This is my son who is living, and your son is the dead one’; and the other says, ‘No! For your son is the dead one, and my son is the living one.’”" 
1Kings3:24 And the king said, “Get me a sword.” So they brought a sword before the king." 
1Kings3:25 Then the king said, “Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one and half to the other.”" 
1Kings3:26 Then the woman whose son was the living one spoke to the king, for she was deeply stirred with compassion over her son and said, “Oh, my lord, give her the living child, and by no means put him to death.” But the other said, “He shall be neither mine nor yours; divide him!”" 
1Kings3:27 Then the king said, “Give the first woman the living child, and by no means put him to death. She is his mother.”" 
1Kings3:28 Then all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had handed down, and they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to do justice." 
1Kings4:1 So King Solomon was king over all Israel. 
1Kings4:2 These were his officials: Azariah the son of Zadok was the priest; 
1Kings4:3 Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha were scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the recorder;" 
1Kings4:4 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the army; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests; 
1Kings4:5 and Azariah the son of Nathan was over the deputies; and Zabud the son of Nathan, a priest, was the king’s friend;" 
1Kings4:6 and Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the men subject to forced labor. 
1Kings4:7 Now Solomon had twelve deputies over all Israel, who sustained the king and his household; each man had to sustain them for a month in the year." 
1Kings4:8 These are their names: Ben-hur, in the hill country of Ephraim;" 
1Kings4:9 Ben-deker in Makaz and Shaalbim and Beth-shemesh and Elonbeth-hanan; 
1Kings4:10 Ben-hesed, in Arubboth (Socoh was his and all the land of Hepher);" 
1Kings4:11 Ben-abinadab, in all the height of Dor (Taphath the daughter of Solomon was his wife);" 
1Kings4:12 Baana the son of Ahilud, in Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean which is beside Zarethan below Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah as far as the other side of Jokmeam;" 
1Kings4:13 Ben-geber, in Ramoth-gilead (now Havvoth-Jair—Jair being the son of Manasseh—which is in Gilead was his: the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bronze bars were his);" 
1Kings4:14 Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim;" 
1Kings4:15 Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he also married Basemath the daughter of Solomon);" 
1Kings4:16 Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;" 
1Kings4:17 Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar;" 
1Kings4:18 Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin;" 
1Kings4:19 Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan; and he was the only deputy who was in the land." 
1Kings4:20 Judah and Israel were as numerous as the sand that is on the seashore in abundance; they were eating and drinking and being glad. 
1Kings4:21 Now Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the River to the land of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt; they brought tribute and served Solomon all the days of his life. 
1Kings4:22 And Solomon’s provision for one day was thirty kors of fine flour and sixty kors of meal," 
1Kings4:23 ten fat oxen, twenty pasture-fed oxen, one hundred sheep besides deer, gazelles, roebucks, and fattened fowl." 
1Kings4:24 For he had dominion over everything west of the River, from Tiphsah even to Gaza, over all the kings west of the River; and he had peace on all sides around about him." 
1Kings4:25 So Judah and Israel lived in security, every man under his vine and his fig tree, from Dan even to Beersheba, all the days of Solomon." 
1Kings4:26 Solomon had 40,000 stalls of horses for his chariots, and 12,000 horsemen." 
1Kings4:27 And these deputies sustained King Solomon and all who came to King Solomon’s table, each in his month; they left nothing lacking." 
1Kings4:28 They also brought barley and straw for the horses and swift steeds to the place where it should be, each according to the legal judgment for him." 
1Kings4:29 And God gave Solomon wisdom and very great discernment and breadth of understanding in his heart, like the sand that is on the seashore." 
1Kings4:30 And Solomon’s wisdom surpassed the wisdom of all the sons of the east and all the wisdom of Egypt. 
1Kings4:31 And he was wiser than all men, than Ethan the Ezrahite, Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol; and the renown of his name was in all the surrounding nations." 
1Kings4:31 And he was wiser than all men, than Ethan the Ezrahite, Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol; and the renown of his name was in all the surrounding nations." 
1Kings4:32 He also spoke 3,000 proverbs, and his songs were 1,005." 
1Kings4:33 And he spoke of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon even to the hyssop that grows on the wall; he spoke also of animals and birds and creeping things and fish." 
1Kings4:34 And men came from all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all the kings of the earth who had heard of his wisdom." 
1Kings5:1 Then Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon, when he heard that they had anointed him king in place of his father, for Hiram had always been one who loved David." 
1Kings5:2 And Solomon sent word to Hiram, saying," 
1Kings5:3 “You know that David my father was unable to build a house for the name of Yahweh his God because of the wars which surrounded him, until Yahweh put them under the soles of his feet." 
1Kings5:4 But now Yahweh my God has given me rest on every side; there is neither adversary nor calamity. 
1Kings5:5 So behold, I intend to build a house for the name of Yahweh my God, as Yahweh spoke to David my father, saying, ‘Your son, whom I will set on your throne in your place, he will build the house for My name.’" 
1Kings5:6 So now, command that they cut for me cedars from Lebanon, and my servants will be with your servants; and I will give you wages for your servants according to all that you say, for you know that there is no one among us who knows how to cut timber like the Sidonians.”" 
1Kings5:7 Now it happened, when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, he was very glad and said, “Blessed be Yahweh today, who has given to David a wise son over this great people.”" 
1Kings5:8 So Hiram sent word to Solomon, saying, “I have heard the message which you have sent me; I will do what you desire concerning the cedar and cypress timber." 
1Kings5:9 My servants will bring them down from Lebanon to the sea; and I will make them into rafts to go by sea to the place where you direct me, and I will have them broken up there, and you shall carry them away. Then you shall accomplish my desire by giving food to my household.”" 
1Kings5:10 So Hiram gave Solomon as much as he desired of the cedar and cypress timber. 
1Kings5:11 Solomon then gave Hiram 20,000 kors of wheat as food for his household, and 20 kors of beaten oil; thus Solomon would give Hiram year by year." 
1Kings5:12 Now Yahweh gave wisdom to Solomon, just as He promised him; and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two of them cut a covenant." 
1Kings5:13 And King Solomon raised up forced laborers from all Israel; and the forced laborers numbered 30,000 men." 
1Kings5:14 And he sent them to Lebanon, 10,000 a month in shifts; they were in Lebanon a month and two months at home. And Adoniram was over the forced laborers." 
1Kings5:15 And Solomon had 70,000 who carried loads, and 80,000 hewers of stone in the mountains," 
1Kings5:16 besides Solomon’s 3,300 chief deputies who were over the project and who ruled over the people who were doing the work." 
1Kings5:17 Then the king commanded, and they quarried great stones, precious stones, to lay the foundation of the house with cut stones." 
1Kings5:18 So Solomon’s builders and Hiram’s builders and the Gebalites carved them out, and prepared the timbers and the stones to build the house." 
1Kings6:1 Now it happened in the four hundred and eightieth year after the sons of Israel came out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon’s reign over Israel, in the month of Ziv which is the second month, that he began to build the house of Yahweh." 
1Kings6:2 As for the house which King Solomon built for Yahweh, its length was sixty cubits and its width twenty cubits and its height thirty cubits." 
1Kings6:3 And the porch in front of the nave of the house was twenty cubits in length, corresponding to the width of the house, and its depth along the front of the house was ten cubits." 
1Kings6:4 Also for the house he made windows with artistic frames. 
1Kings6:5 And he built, against the wall of the house, stories encompassing the walls of the house around both the nave and the inner sanctuary; thus he made side chambers all around." 
1Kings6:6 The lowest story was five cubits wide, and the middle was six cubits wide, and the third was seven cubits wide; for on the outside he made offsets in the wall of the house all around in order that the beams would not be inserted in the walls of the house." 
1Kings6:7 The house, while it was being built, was built of stone prepared at the quarry, and there was neither hammer nor axe nor any iron tool heard in the house while it was being built." 
1Kings6:8 The doorway for the lowest side chamber was on the right side of the house; and they would go up by winding stairs to the middle story, and from the middle to the third." 
1Kings6:9 So he built the house and completed it; and he paneled the house with beams and planks of cedar. 
1Kings6:10 He also built the stories against the whole house, each five cubits high; and they were fastened to the house with timbers of cedar." 
1Kings6:11 And the word of Yahweh came to Solomon saying," 
1Kings6:12 “Concerning this house which you are building, if you will walk in My statutes and do My judgments and keep all My commandments by walking in them, then I will establish My word with you which I spoke to David your father." 
1Kings6:13 And I will dwell among the sons of Israel, and will not forsake My people Israel.”" 
1Kings6:14 So Solomon built the house and completed it. 
1Kings6:15 Then he built the walls of the house on the inside with boards of cedar; from the floor of the house to the ceiling he overlaid the walls on the inside with wood, and he overlaid the floor of the house with boards of cypress." 
1Kings6:16 And he built twenty cubits on the rear part of the house with boards of cedar from the floor to the ceiling; he built them for it on the inside as an inner sanctuary, as the Holy of Holies." 
1Kings6:17 And the house, that is, the nave in front of the inner sanctuary, was forty cubits long." 
1Kings6:18 And there was cedar on the house within, carved in the shape of gourds and open flowers; all was cedar, there was no stone seen." 
1Kings6:19 Then he prepared an inner sanctuary within the house in order to place there the ark of the covenant of Yahweh. 
1Kings6:20 Now the inner sanctuary was twenty cubits in length, twenty cubits in width, and twenty cubits in height, and he overlaid it with pure gold. He also overlaid the altar with cedar." 
1Kings6:21 So Solomon overlaid the inside of the house with pure gold. And he drew chains of gold across the front of the inner sanctuary, and he overlaid it with gold." 
1Kings6:22 So he overlaid the whole house with gold, until all the house was finished. Also the whole altar which was by the inner sanctuary he overlaid with gold." 
1Kings6:23 Also in the inner sanctuary he made two cherubim of olive wood, each ten cubits high." 
1Kings6:24 And five cubits was the one wing of the cherub and five cubits the other wing of the cherub; from the end of one wing to the end of the other wing were ten cubits. 
1Kings6:25 The other cherub was also ten cubits; both the cherubim were of the same measure and the same form. 
1Kings6:26 The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was the other cherub." 
1Kings6:27 And he put the cherubim in the midst of the inner house, and the wings of the cherubim were spread out, so that the wing of the one was touching the one wall, and the wing of the other cherub was touching the other wall. And their wings were touching each other in the center of the house." 
1Kings6:28 He also overlaid the cherubim with gold. 
1Kings6:29 Then he carved all the walls of the house round about with carved engravings of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, from within the inner and outer sanctuaries." 
1Kings6:30 And he overlaid the floor of the house with gold, in the inner and outer sanctuaries." 
1Kings6:31 For the entrance of the inner sanctuary he made doors of olive wood, the lintel, and five-sided doorposts." 
1Kings6:32 So he made two doors of olive wood, and he carved on them carvings of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, and overlaid them with gold; and he spread the gold on the cherubim and on the palm trees." 
1Kings6:33 So also he made for the entrance of the nave four-sided doorposts of olive wood 
1Kings6:34 and two doors of cypress wood; the two leaves of the one door turned on pivots, and the two leaves of the other door turned on pivots." 
1Kings6:35 And he carved on it cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers; and he overlaid them with gold evenly applied on the engraved work." 
1Kings6:36 And he built the inner court with three rows of cut stone and a row of cedar beams. 
1Kings6:37 In the fourth year the foundation of the house of Yahweh was laid, in the month of Ziv." 
1Kings6:38 Now in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul, which is the eighth month, the house was completed throughout all its parts and according to all its plans. So he built it in seven years." 
1Kings7:1 Now Solomon built his own house thirteen years, and he completed all his house." 
1Kings7:2 And he built the house of the forest of Lebanon; its length was 100 cubits and its width 50 cubits and its height 30 cubits, on four rows of cedar pillars with cedar beams on the pillars." 
1Kings7:3 And it was paneled with cedar above the side chambers which were on the 45 pillars, 15 in each row." 
1Kings7:4 Now there were artistic window frames in three rows, and window was opposite window in three ranks." 
1Kings7:5 And all the doorways and doorposts had squared artistic frames, and window was opposite window in three ranks." 
1Kings7:6 Then he made the hall of pillars; its length was 50 cubits and its width 30 cubits, and a porch was in front of them and pillars and a threshold in front of them." 
1Kings7:7 And he made the hall of the throne where he was to judge, the hall of judgment, and it was paneled with cedar from floor to floor." 
1Kings7:8 Now his house where he was to live, the other court inward from the hall, was of the same workmanship. He also made a house like this hall for Pharaoh’s daughter, whom Solomon had married." 
1Kings7:9 All these were of precious stones, of stone cut according to measure, sawed with saws, inside and outside; even from the foundation to the coping, and so on the outside to the great court." 
1Kings7:10 And the foundation was of precious stones, even large stones, stones of ten cubits and stones of eight cubits." 
1Kings7:11 And above were precious stones, stone cut according to measure, and cedar." 
1Kings7:12 So the great court all around had three rows of cut stone and a row of cedar beams even as the inner court of the house of Yahweh, and the porch of the house." 
1Kings7:13 Then King Solomon sent and brought Hiram from Tyre. 
1Kings7:14 He was a widow’s son from the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in bronze; and he was filled with wisdom and discernment and knowledge to do any work in bronze. So he came to King Solomon and did all his work." 
1Kings7:15 And he fashioned the two pillars of bronze; eighteen cubits was the height of one pillar, and a line of twelve cubits measured the circumference of both." 
1Kings7:16 He also made two capitals of molten bronze to set on the tops of the pillars; the height of the one capital was five cubits and the height of the other capital was five cubits. 
1Kings7:17 There were nets of network and twisted threads of chainwork for the capitals which were on the top of the pillars; seven for the one capital and seven for the other capital. 
1Kings7:18 So he made the pillars, and two rows around on the one network to cover the capitals which were on the top of the pomegranates; and so he did for the other capital." 
1Kings7:19 Now the capitals which were on the top of the pillars in the porch were of lily design, four cubits." 
1Kings7:20 And there were capitals on the two pillars, even right above the rounded projection which was on the one side of the network; and the pomegranates numbered two hundred in rows around both capitals." 
1Kings7:21 Thus he set up the pillars at the porch of the nave; and he set up the right pillar and named it Jachin, and he set up the left pillar and named it Boaz." 
1Kings7:22 And on the top of the pillars was lily design. So the work of the pillars was finished. 
1Kings7:23 And he made the sea of cast metal ten cubits from brim to brim, circular in form, and its height was five cubits, and thirty cubits in its circumference." 
1Kings7:24 Now under its brim gourds went around encircling it ten to a cubit, entirely encircling the sea; the gourds were in two rows, cast with the Sea when it was cast." 
1Kings7:25 It stood on twelve oxen, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east; and the sea was set on top of them, and all their rear parts turned inward." 
1Kings7:26 And it was a handbreadth thick, and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, as a lily blossom; it could hold two thousand baths." 
1Kings7:27 Then he made the ten stands of bronze; the length of each stand was four cubits and its width four cubits and its height three cubits. 
1Kings7:28 Now this was the workmanship of the stands: they had borders, even borders between the frames," 
1Kings7:29 and on the borders which were between the frames were lions, oxen, and cherubim; and on the frames there was a pedestal above, and beneath the lions and oxen were wreaths of hanging work." 
1Kings7:30 Now each stand had four bronze wheels with bronze axles, and its four feet had supports; beneath the laver were cast supports with wreaths at each side." 
1Kings7:31 And its opening inside the capital at the top was a cubit, and its opening was round like the workmanship of a pedestal, a cubit and a half; and also on its opening there were engravings, and their borders were square, not round." 
1Kings7:32 And the four wheels were underneath the borders, and the axles of the wheels were on the stand. And the height of a wheel was a cubit and a half." 
1Kings7:33 Now the workmanship of the wheels was like the workmanship of a chariot wheel. Their axles, their rims, their spokes, and their hubs were all cast." 
1Kings7:34 Now there were four supports at the four corners of each stand; its supports were part of the stand itself. 
1Kings7:35 And on the top of the stand there was a circular form half a cubit high, and on the top of the stand its stays and its borders were part of it." 
1Kings7:36 And he engraved on the plates of its stays and on its borders, cherubim, lions, and palm trees, according to the clear space on each, with wreaths all around." 
1Kings7:37 He made the ten stands like this: all of them had one casting, one measure and one form." 
1Kings7:38 He also made ten lavers of bronze, one laver held forty baths; each laver was four cubits, and on each of the ten stands was one laver." 
1Kings7:39 Then he set the stands, five on the right side of the house and five on the left side of the house; and he set the sea of cast metal on the right side of the house eastward toward the south." 
1Kings7:40 And Hiram made the lavers and the shovels and the bowls. So Hiram completed doing all the work that he did for King Solomon in the house of Yahweh: 
1Kings7:41 the two pillars and the two bowls of the capitals which were on the top of the two pillars, and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on the top of the pillars," 
1Kings7:42 and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on the tops of the pillars;" 
1Kings7:43 and the ten stands with the ten lavers on the stands; 
1Kings7:44 and the one sea and the twelve oxen under the sea; 
1Kings7:45 and the pots and the shovels and the bowls; and all these utensils which Hiram made for King Solomon in the house of Yahweh were of polished bronze. 
1Kings7:46 On the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarethan." 
1Kings7:47 And Solomon left all the utensils unweighed, because they were too many; the weight of the bronze could not be found out." 
1Kings7:48 Solomon also made all the furniture which was in the house of Yahweh: the golden altar and the golden table on which was the bread of the Presence; 
1Kings7:49 and the lampstands, five on the right side and five on the left, in front of the inner sanctuary, of pure gold; and the flowers and the lamps and the tongs, of gold;" 
1Kings7:50 and the cups and the snuffers and the bowls and the spoons and the firepans, of pure gold; and the hinges both for the doors of the inner house, the Holy of Holies, and for the doors of the house, that is, of the nave, of gold." 
1Kings7:51 Thus all the work that King Solomon did in the house of Yahweh was finished. And Solomon brought in the things set apart as holy by his father David, the silver and the gold and the utensils, and he put them in the treasuries of the house of Yahweh." 
1Kings8:1 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the fathers’ households of the sons of Israel, to King Solomon in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the city of David, which is Zion." 
1Kings8:2 And all the men of Israel assembled themselves to King Solomon at the feast, in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh month." 
1Kings8:3 Then all the elders of Israel came, and the priests carried the ark." 
1Kings8:4 And they brought up the ark of Yahweh and the tent of meeting and all the holy utensils, which were in the tent, and the priests and the Levites brought them up." 
1Kings8:5 And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who congregated to him being with him before the ark, were sacrificing so many sheep and oxen that they could not be counted or numbered." 
1Kings8:6 Then the priests brought the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to its place, into the inner sanctuary of the house, to the Holy of Holies, under the wings of the cherubim." 
1Kings8:7 For the cherubim spread their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim made a covering over the ark and its poles from above." 
1Kings8:8 But the poles were so long that the ends of the poles could be seen from the holy place before the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen outside; and they are there to this day." 
1Kings8:9 There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets of stone which Moses laid there at Horeb, where Yahweh cut a covenant with the sons of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt." 
1Kings8:10 Now it happened that when the priests came out of the holy place, the cloud filled the house of Yahweh," 
1Kings8:11 so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of Yahweh filled the house of Yahweh." 
1Kings8:12 Then Solomon said, “Yahweh has said that He would dwell in the cloud of dense gloom." 
1Kings8:13 I have surely built You a lofty house, A place for Your dwelling forever.”" 
1Kings8:14 Then the king turned his face around and blessed all the assembly of Israel, while all the assembly of Israel was standing." 
1Kings8:15 And he said, “Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, who spoke with His mouth to my father David and has fulfilled it by His hand, saying," 
1Kings8:16 ‘Since the day that I brought My people Israel from Egypt, I did not choose a city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house that My name might be there, but I have chosen David to be over My people Israel.’" 
1Kings8:17 And it was in the heart of my father David to build a house for the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
1Kings8:18 But Yahweh said to my father David, ‘Because it was in your heart to build a house for My name, you did well that it was in your heart." 
1Kings8:19 Nevertheless you shall not build the house, but your son who will come forth from your loins, he shall build the house for My name.’" 
1Kings8:20 And Yahweh has established His word which He spoke; and I have been established in place of my father David and sit on the throne of Israel, as Yahweh promised, and have built the house for the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
1Kings8:21 And there I have set a place for the ark, in which is the covenant of Yahweh, which He cut with our fathers when He brought them from the land of Egypt.”" 
1Kings8:22 Then Solomon stood before the altar of Yahweh before all the assembly of Israel and spread out his hands toward heaven. 
1Kings8:23 And he said, “O Yahweh, the God of Israel, there is no god like You in heaven above or upon earth beneath, keeping covenant and lovingkindness to Your slaves who walk before You with all their heart," 
1Kings8:24 who have kept with Your servant, my father David, that which You have promised him; indeed, You have promised with Your mouth and have fulfilled it by Your hand as it is this day." 
1Kings8:25 So now, O Yahweh, the God of Israel, keep with Your servant David my father that which You have promised him, saying, ‘You shall not have a man cut off from before Me who is to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your sons keep their way to walk as you have walked before Me.’" 
1Kings8:26 So now, O God of Israel, let Your word truly endure which You have spoken to Your servant, my father David." 
1Kings8:27 “But will God truly dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain You; how much less this house which I have built!" 
1Kings8:28 Yet have regard to the prayer of Your slave and to his supplication, O Yahweh my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which Your slave prays before You today;" 
1Kings8:29 that Your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, toward the place of which You have said, ‘My name shall be there,’ to listen to the prayer which Your slave shall pray toward this place." 
1Kings8:30 And listen to the supplication of Your slave and of Your people Israel, when they pray toward this place; listen in heaven Your dwelling place; listen and forgive." 
1Kings8:31 “If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath, and he comes and takes an oath before Your altar in this house," 
1Kings8:32 then listen in heaven and act and judge Your slaves, condemning the wicked by bringing his way on his own head and justifying the righteous by bringing him reward according to his righteousness." 
1Kings8:33 “When Your people Israel are defeated before an enemy, because they have sinned against You, if they turn to You again and confess Your name and pray and make supplication to You in this house," 
1Kings8:34 then listen in heaven, and forgive the sin of Your people Israel, and bring them back to the land which You gave to their fathers." 
1Kings8:35 “When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain, because they have sinned against You, and they pray toward this place and confess Your name and turn from their sin when You afflict them," 
1Kings8:36 then listen in heaven and forgive the sin of Your slaves and of Your people Israel; indeed, teach them the good way in which they should walk. And give rain on Your land, which You have given to Your people for an inheritance." 
1Kings8:37 “If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is scorching wind or mildew, locust or grasshopper, if their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is," 
1Kings8:38 whatever prayer or supplication is made by any man or by all Your people Israel, each of whom knows the affliction of his own heart, and spreads his hands toward this house;" 
1Kings8:39 then listen in heaven Your dwelling place, and forgive and act and give to each according to all his ways, whose heart You know, for You alone know the hearts of all the sons of men," 
1Kings8:40 that they may fear You all the days that they live upon the face of the land which You have given to our fathers. 
1Kings8:41 “Also concerning the foreigner who is not of Your people Israel, if he comes from a far country for Your name’s sake" 
1Kings8:42 (for they will hear of Your great name and Your strong hand, and of Your outstretched arm); so if he comes and prays toward this house," 
1Kings8:43 listen in heaven Your dwelling place, and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to You, in order that all the peoples of the earth may know Your name to fear You, as do Your people Israel, and to know that Your name is called upon this house which I have built." 
1Kings8:44 “When Your people go out to battle against their enemy, by whatever way You shall send them, and they pray to Yahweh toward the city which You have chosen and the house which I have built for Your name," 
1Kings8:45 then listen in heaven to their prayer and their supplication, and do justice." 
1Kings8:46 “When they sin against You (for there is no man who does not sin) and You are angry with them and give them over to an enemy, so that they take them away captive to the land of the enemy, far off or near;" 
1Kings8:47 and if they cause these things to return to their heart in the land where they have been taken captive, and return and make supplication to You in the land of those who have taken them captive, saying, ‘We have sinned and have committed iniquity, we have acted wickedly’;" 
1Kings8:48 and if they return to You with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies who have taken them captive, and pray to You toward their land which You have given to their fathers, the city which You have chosen, and the house which I have built for Your name;" 
1Kings8:49 then listen in heaven Your dwelling place to their prayer and their supplication, and do justice for them," 
1Kings8:50 and forgive Your people who have sinned against You and all their transgressions which they have transgressed against You, and give them over as objects of compassion before those who have taken them captive, that they may have compassion on them" 
1Kings8:51 (for they are Your people and Your inheritance which You have brought forth from Egypt, from the midst of the iron furnace)," 
1Kings8:52 that Your eyes may be open to the supplication of Your slave and to the supplication of Your people Israel, to listen to them whenever they call to You." 
1Kings8:53 For You have separated them from all the peoples of the earth as Your inheritance, as You spoke by the hand of Moses Your servant, when You brought our fathers forth from Egypt, O Lord Yahweh.”" 
1Kings8:54 Now it happened that when Solomon had finished praying this entire prayer and supplication to Yahweh, he arose from before the altar of Yahweh, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread toward heaven." 
1Kings8:55 And he stood and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying:" 
1Kings8:56 “Blessed be Yahweh, who has given rest to His people Israel, according to all that He promised; not one promise has failed of all His good promises, which He promised by the hand of Moses His servant." 
1Kings8:57 May Yahweh our God be with us, as He was with our fathers; may He not forsake us or abandon us," 
1Kings8:58 that He may incline our hearts to Himself, to walk in all His ways and to keep His commandments and His statutes and His judgments, which He commanded our fathers." 
1Kings8:59 And may these words of mine, with which I have made supplication before Yahweh, be near to Yahweh our God day and night, that He may do justice for His slave and justice for His people Israel, as each day requires," 
1Kings8:60 so that all the peoples of the earth may know that Yahweh is God; there is no one else. 
1Kings8:61 Let your heart therefore be wholly devoted to Yahweh our God, to walk in His statutes and to keep His commandments, as at this day.”" 
1Kings8:62 Now the king and all Israel with him were offering sacrifices before Yahweh. 
1Kings8:63 And Solomon offered for the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered to Yahweh, 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the sons of Israel dedicated the house of Yahweh." 
1Kings8:64 On the same day the king set apart as holy the middle of the court that was before the house of Yahweh, because there he offered the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat of the peace offerings; for the bronze altar that was before Yahweh was too small to hold the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat of the peace offerings." 
1Kings8:65 So Solomon celebrated the feast at that time, and all Israel with him, a great assembly from Lebo-hamath to the brook of Egypt, before Yahweh our God, for seven days and seven more days, even fourteen days." 
1Kings8:66 On the eighth day he sent the people away and they blessed the king. Then they went to their tents with gladness and goodness of heart because of all the goodness that Yahweh had shown to David His servant and to Israel His people. 
1Kings9:1 Now it happened when Solomon had completed building the house of Yahweh, and the king’s house, and all that Solomon desired to do," 
1Kings9:2 that Yahweh appeared to Solomon a second time, as He had appeared to him at Gibeon." 
1Kings9:3 And Yahweh said to him, “I have heard your prayer and your supplication, which you have made before Me; I have set apart as holy this house which you have built by putting My name there forever, and My eyes and My heart will be there perpetually." 
1Kings9:4 As for you, if you will walk before Me as your father David walked, in integrity of heart and uprightness, to do according to all that I have commanded you and will keep My statutes and My judgments," 
1Kings9:5 then I will establish the throne of your kingdom over Israel forever, just as I promised to your father David, saying, ‘You shall not have a man cut off from the throne of Israel.’" 
1Kings9:6 “But if you or your sons indeed turn away from following Me, and do not keep My commandments and My statutes which I have given before you, and go and serve other gods and worship them," 
1Kings9:7 then I will cut off Israel from the land which I have given them, and the house which I have set apart as holy for My name, I will cast out of My presence. So Israel will become a proverb and a byword among all peoples." 
1Kings9:8 And this house will become a heap of ruins; everyone who passes by will feel desolate and hiss and say, ‘Why has Yahweh done thus to this land and to this house?’" 
1Kings9:9 And they will say, ‘Because they forsook Yahweh their God, who brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and took hold of other gods and worshiped them and served them, therefore Yahweh has brought all this calamity on them.’”" 
1Kings9:10 Now it happened that at the end of twenty years in which Solomon had built the two houses, the house of Yahweh and the king’s house" 
1Kings9:11 (Hiram king of Tyre had supplied Solomon with cedar and cypress timber and gold according to all his desire), that King Solomon then gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee." 
1Kings9:12 So Hiram came out from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon had given him, and they were not right in his eyes." 
1Kings9:13 And he said, “What are these cities which you have given me, my brother?” So they were called the land of Cabul to this day." 
1Kings9:14 And Hiram sent to the king 120 talents of gold. 
1Kings9:15 Now this is the account of the forced labor which King Solomon raised up to build the house of Yahweh, his own house, the Millo, the wall of Jerusalem, Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer." 
1Kings9:16 For Pharaoh king of Egypt had gone up and captured Gezer and burned it with fire, and killed the Canaanites who lived in the city, and had given it as a dowry to his daughter, Solomon’s wife." 
1Kings9:17 So Solomon rebuilt Gezer and the lower Beth-horon 
1Kings9:18 and Baalath and Tamar in the wilderness, in the land of Judah," 
1Kings9:19 and all the storage cities which Solomon had, and the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land under his rule." 
1Kings9:20 As for all the people who were left of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, who were not of the sons of Israel," 
1Kings9:21 namely, their sons who were left after them in the land whom the sons of Israel were unable to devote to destruction, from them Solomon raised up forced laborers to this day." 
1Kings9:22 But Solomon did not make slaves of the sons of Israel; for they were men of war, his servants, his princes, his captains, his chariot commanders, and his horsemen." 
1Kings9:23 These were the chief deputies who were over Solomon’s work, 550, who had dominion over the people doing the work." 
1Kings9:24 As soon as Pharaoh’s daughter came up from the city of David to her house which Solomon had built for her, then he built the Millo." 
1Kings9:25 And three times in a year Solomon offered burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar which he built to Yahweh, burning incense with them on the altar which was before Yahweh. So he finished the house." 
1Kings9:26 King Solomon also made a fleet of ships in Ezion-geber, which is near Eloth on the shore of the Red Sea, in the land of Edom." 
1Kings9:27 And Hiram sent his servants with the fleet of ships, sailors who knew the sea, along with the servants of Solomon." 
1Kings9:28 And they went to Ophir and took from there 420 talents of gold and brought it to King Solomon. 
1Kings10:1 Now the queen of Sheba heard the report about Solomon concerning the name of Yahweh. So she came to test him with riddles. 
1Kings10:2 She came to Jerusalem with a very glorious retinue, with camels carrying spices and very much gold and precious stones. And she came to Solomon and spoke to him about all that was in her heart." 
1Kings10:3 And Solomon declared to her the answer to all her matters; there was not a matter which was hidden from the king which he did not declare to her. 
1Kings10:4 Then the queen of Sheba saw all the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built," 
1Kings10:5 the food of his table, the seating of his servants, the disposition of his attendants and their attire, his cupbearers, and his stairway by which he went up to the house of Yahweh, so that there was no more spirit in her." 
1Kings10:6 Then she said to the king, “The word is true which I heard in my own land about your words and your wisdom." 
1Kings10:7 Nevertheless I did not believe those words, until I came and my eyes had seen it. And behold, the half was not declared to me. You exceed, in wisdom and prosperity, the report which I heard." 
1Kings10:8 How blessed are your men, how blessed are these your servants who stand before you continually and hear your wisdom." 
1Kings10:9 Blessed be Yahweh your God who delighted in you, to set you on the throne of Israel; because Yahweh loved Israel forever, therefore He made you king, to do justice and righteousness.”" 
1Kings10:10 Then she gave the king 120 talents of gold and a very great amount of spices and precious stones. Never again did such abundance of spices come in as that which the queen of Sheba gave King Solomon. 
1Kings10:11 Also, the ships of Hiram, which carried gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir a very great number of almug trees and precious stones." 
1Kings10:12 And the king made of the almug trees supports for the house of Yahweh and for the king’s house, also lyres and harps for the singers; such almug trees have not come in again nor have they been seen to this day." 
1Kings10:13 Thus King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire which she asked, besides what he gave her according to his royal bounty. Then she turned and went to her own land, she and her servants." 
1Kings10:14 Now the weight of gold which came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents of gold," 
1Kings10:15 besides that from the traders and the wares of the merchants and all the kings of the Arabs and the governors of the country. 
1Kings10:16 And King Solomon made 200 large shields of beaten gold, using 600 shekels of gold on each large shield." 
1Kings10:17 And he made 300 shields of beaten gold, using three minas of gold on each shield, and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon." 
1Kings10:18 Moreover, the king made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with refined gold." 
1Kings10:19 There were six steps to the throne and a round top to the throne at its rear, and arms on each side of the seat, and two lions standing beside the arms." 
1Kings10:20 Twelve lions were also standing there on the six steps on the one side and on the other; nothing like it was made for all the other kingdoms. 
1Kings10:21 Now all King Solomon’s drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. None was of silver; it was not considered valuable in the days of Solomon." 
1Kings10:22 For the king had at sea the ships of Tarshish with the ships of Hiram; once every three years the ships of Tarshish came carrying gold and silver, ivory and apes and peacocks." 
1Kings10:23 So King Solomon became greater than all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom. 
1Kings10:24 And all the earth was seeking the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom which God had put in his heart." 
1Kings10:25 And they brought every man his present, articles of silver and gold, garments, weapons, spices, horses, and mules, a set amount year by year." 
1Kings10:26 And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen. And he had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horsemen and stationed them in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem." 
1Kings10:27 The king also made silver as plentiful as stones in Jerusalem, and he made cedars as plentiful as sycamore trees that are in the Shephelah." 
1Kings10:28 Solomon’s import of horses was from Egypt and Kue; the king’s merchants procured them from Kue for a price. 
1Kings10:29 And a chariot was imported from Egypt for 600 shekels of silver, and a horse for 150; and by the same means they exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and to the kings of Aram." 
1Kings11:1 Now King Solomon loved many foreign women along with the daughter of Pharaoh: Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, and Hittite women," 
1Kings11:2 from the nations concerning which Yahweh had said to the sons of Israel, “You shall not go along with them, nor shall they go along with you, for they will surely turn your heart away after their gods.” Solomon clung to these in love." 
1Kings11:3 And he had 700 wives—princesses—and 300 concubines, and his wives turned his heart away." 
1Kings11:4 Now it happened at the time that Solomon was old, his wives turned his heart away after other gods; and his heart was not wholly devoted to Yahweh his God, as the heart of David his father had been." 
1Kings11:5 For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians and after Milcom the detestable idol of the Ammonites. 
1Kings11:6 And Solomon did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and did not follow Yahweh fully, as David his father had done." 
1Kings11:7 Then Solomon built a high place for Chemosh the detestable idol of Moab, on the mountain which is east of Jerusalem, and for Molech the detestable idol of the sons of Ammon." 
1Kings11:8 Thus also he did for all his foreign wives, who burned incense and sacrificed to their gods." 
1Kings11:9 Now Yahweh was angry with Solomon because his heart was turned away from Yahweh, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice," 
1Kings11:10 and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not walk after other gods; but he did not keep what Yahweh had commanded." 
1Kings11:11 So Yahweh said to Solomon, “Because this has happened with you: you have not kept My covenant and My statutes, which I have commanded you, so I will surely tear the kingdom from you, and will give it to your servant." 
1Kings11:12 Nevertheless I will not do it in your days for the sake of your father David, but I will tear it out of the hand of your son." 
1Kings11:13 However, I will not tear away all the kingdom, but I will give one tribe to your son for the sake of My servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem which I have chosen.”" 
1Kings11:14 Then Yahweh raised up an adversary to Solomon, Hadad the Edomite; he was of the seed of the king in Edom." 
1Kings11:15 Now it happened that when David was in Edom, and Joab the commander of the army had gone up to bury the slain, and had struck down every male in Edom" 
1Kings11:16 (for Joab and all Israel stayed there six months, until he had cut off every male in Edom)," 
1Kings11:17 that Hadad fled to Egypt, he and certain Edomites of his father’s servants with him, while Hadad was a young boy." 
1Kings11:18 Then they arose from Midian and came to Paran; and they took men with them from Paran and came to Egypt, to Pharaoh king of Egypt. And he gave him a house and assigned him food and gave him land." 
1Kings11:19 And Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh. So he gave him as a wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen." 
1Kings11:20 And the sister of Tahpenes bore his son Genubath. And Tahpenes weaned him in Pharaoh’s house; and Genubath was in Pharaoh’s house among the sons of Pharaoh. 
1Kings11:21 But Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers and that Joab the commander of the army had died. So Hadad said to Pharaoh, “Send me away, that I may go to my own country.”" 
1Kings11:22 Then Pharaoh said to him, “But what have you lacked with me, that behold, you are seeking to go to your own country?” And he answered, “Nothing; nevertheless you must surely let me go.”" 
1Kings11:23 And God raised up another adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah." 
1Kings11:24 And he gathered men to himself and became commander of a marauding band, after David killed some of them; and they went to Damascus and stayed there, and reigned in Damascus." 
1Kings11:25 So he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, along with the evil that Hadad did; and he abhorred Israel and reigned over Aram." 
1Kings11:26 Now Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite of Zeredah, Solomon’s servant, whose mother’s name was Zeruah, a widow, also raised his hand against the king." 
1Kings11:27 Now this was the reason why he raised his hand against the king: Solomon built the Millo, and closed up the breach of the city of his father David." 
1Kings11:28 Now the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valor. And Solomon saw that the young man was industrious and appointed him over all the load-bearers of the house of Joseph. 
1Kings11:29 Now it happened at that time, that Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, and that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him on the road. Now he had covered himself with a new cloak; and both of them were alone in the field." 
1Kings11:30 Then Ahijah took hold of the new cloak which was on him and tore it into twelve pieces. 
1Kings11:31 And he said to Jeroboam, “Take for yourself ten pieces; for thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Behold, I will tear the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon and give you ten tribes," 
1Kings11:32 but he will have one tribe, for the sake of My servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel," 
1Kings11:33 because they have forsaken Me, and have worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the god of Moab, and Milcom the god of the sons of Ammon; and they have not walked in My ways to do what is right in My sight and to keep My statutes and My judgments, as his father David did." 
1Kings11:34 Nevertheless I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him ruler all the days of his life, for the sake of My servant David whom I chose, who kept My commandments and My statutes;" 
1Kings11:35 but I will take the kingdom from his son’s hand and give it to you—the ten tribes. 
1Kings11:36 But to his son I will give one tribe, that My servant David may have a lamp always before Me in Jerusalem, the city where I have chosen for Myself to put My name." 
1Kings11:37 And I will take you, and you shall reign over whatever your soul desires, and you shall be king over Israel." 
1Kings11:38 Then it will be, that if you listen to all that I command you and walk in My ways, and do what is right in My sight to keep My statutes and My commandments, as My servant David did, then I will be with you and build you an enduring house as I built for David, and I will give Israel to you." 
1Kings11:39 Thus I will afflict the seed of David for this, but not always.’”" 
1Kings11:40 Solomon sought therefore to put Jeroboam to death; but Jeroboam arose and fled to Egypt to Shishak king of Egypt, and he was in Egypt until the death of Solomon." 
1Kings11:41 Now the rest of the acts of Solomon and whatever he did, and his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon?" 
1Kings11:42 Thus the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years. 
1Kings11:43 And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of his father David, and his son Rehoboam became king in his place." 
1Kings12:1 Then Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king." 
1Kings12:2 And it happened, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it, he was living in Egypt (for he was yet in Egypt, where he had fled from the presence of King Solomon)." 
1Kings12:3 Then they sent and called for him. And Jeroboam and all the assembly of Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam, saying," 
1Kings12:4 “Your father made our yoke harsh; but you, now, lighten the harsh service of your father and his heavy yoke which he put on us, and we will serve you.”" 
1Kings12:5 Then he said to them, “Go for three days, then return to me.” So the people went away." 
1Kings12:6 Then King Rehoboam took counsel with the elders who had stood before his father Solomon while he was still alive, saying, “How do you counsel me to respond to this people?”" 
1Kings12:7 And they spoke to him, saying, “If you will be a servant to this people today, and will serve them and grant them their petition, and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever.”" 
1Kings12:8 But he forsook the counsel of the elders which they had counseled him, and took counsel with the young men who grew up with him and stood before him." 
1Kings12:9 So he said to them, “What counsel do you give that we may respond to this people who have spoken to me, saying, ‘Lighten the yoke which your father put on us’?”" 
1Kings12:10 Then the young men who grew up with him spoke to him, saying, “Thus you shall say to this people who spoke to you, saying, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy, now you make it lighter for us!’ Thus you shall speak to them, ‘My little finger is thicker than my father’s loins!" 
1Kings12:11 So now, my father loaded you with a heavy yoke, but I will add to your yoke; my father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.’”" 
1Kings12:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day as the king had spoken, saying, “Return to me on the third day.”" 
1Kings12:13 And the king answered the people harshly, and he forsook the counsel of the elders which they had given him," 
1Kings12:14 and he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, “My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke; my father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.”" 
1Kings12:15 So the king did not listen to the people; for it was a turn of events from Yahweh, that He might establish His word, which Yahweh spoke through Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat." 
1Kings12:16 Then all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them. So the people responded to the king with this word, saying, “What portion do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse; To your tents, O Israel! Now see to your own house, David!” So Israel went to their tents." 
1Kings12:17 But as for the sons of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them." 
1Kings12:18 Then King Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the forced labor, and all Israel stoned him and he died. And King Rehoboam made haste to mount his chariot to flee to Jerusalem." 
1Kings12:19 So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day. 
1Kings12:20 Now it happened when all Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned, that they sent and called him to the congregation and made him king over all Israel. None but the tribe of Judah followed the house of David." 
1Kings12:21 Then Rehoboam came to Jerusalem and assembled all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, 180,000 chosen men who could wage war, to fight against the house of Israel to return the kingdom to Rehoboam the son of Solomon." 
1Kings12:22 But the word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying," 
1Kings12:23 “Speak to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all the house of Judah and Benjamin and to the rest of the people, saying," 
1Kings12:24 ‘Thus says Yahweh, “You shall not go up and fight against your brothers, the sons of Israel; return every man to his house, for this thing is from Me.”’” So they listened to the word of Yahweh, and returned to go their way according to the word of Yahweh." 
1Kings12:25 Then Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and lived there. And he went out from there and built Penuel." 
1Kings12:26 And Jeroboam said in his heart, “Now the kingdom will return to the house of David." 
1Kings12:27 If this people go up to offer sacrifices in the house of Yahweh at Jerusalem, then the heart of this people will return to their lord, even to Rehoboam king of Judah; and they will kill me and return to Rehoboam king of Judah.”" 
1Kings12:28 So the king took counsel, and made two golden calves, and he said to them, “It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem; behold your gods, O Israel, that brought you up from the land of Egypt.”" 
1Kings12:29 And he set one in Bethel, and one he put in Dan." 
1Kings12:30 Now this thing became a sin, for the people went to worship before the one as far as Dan." 
1Kings12:31 And he made houses on high places, and made priests from among all the people who were not of the sons of Levi." 
1Kings12:32 And Jeroboam made a feast in the eighth month on the fifteenth day of the month, like the feast which is in Judah, and he went up to the altar; thus he did in Bethel, to sacrifice to the calves which he had made. And he had the priests of the high places, which he had made, stand in Bethel." 
1Kings12:33 Then he went up to the altar which he had made in Bethel on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised in his own heart; and he made a feast for the sons of Israel and went up to the altar to burn incense." 
1Kings13:1 Now behold, there came a man of God from Judah to Bethel by the word of Yahweh, while Jeroboam was standing by the altar to burn incense." 
1Kings13:2 And he cried against the altar by the word of Yahweh, and said, “O altar, altar, thus says Yahweh, ‘Behold, a son shall be born to the house of David, Josiah is his name; and on you he shall sacrifice the priests of the high places who burn incense on you, and human bones shall be burned on you.’”" 
1Kings13:3 Then he gave a miraculous sign the same day, saying, “This is the miraculous sign which Yahweh has spoken, ‘Behold, the altar shall be torn apart and the ashes which are on it shall be poured out.’”" 
1Kings13:4 Now it happened that when the king heard the word of the man of God, which he cried against the altar in Bethel, Jeroboam stretched out his hand from the altar, saying, “Seize him.” But his hand which he stretched out against him dried up, so that he could not draw it back to himself." 
1Kings13:5 The altar also was torn apart and the ashes were poured out from the altar, according to the miraculous sign which the man of God had given by the word of Yahweh." 
1Kings13:6 Then the king answered and said to the man of God, “Please entreat Yahweh your God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored to me.” So the man of God entreated Yahweh, and the king’s hand was restored to him, and it became as it was before." 
1Kings13:7 Then the king said to the man of God, “Come home with me and refresh yourself, and I will give you a gift.”" 
1Kings13:8 But the man of God said to the king, “If you were to give me half your house, I would not go with you, nor would I eat bread or drink water in this place." 
1Kings13:9 For so it was commanded me by the word of Yahweh, saying, ‘You shall eat no bread, nor drink water, nor return by the way which you came.’”" 
1Kings13:10 So he went another way and did not return by the way which he came to Bethel. 
1Kings13:11 Now an old prophet was living in Bethel; and his sons came and recounted to him all the work which the man of God had done that day in Bethel; the words which he had spoken to the king, these also they recounted to their father." 
1Kings13:12 And their father said to them, “Which way did he go?” And his sons had seen the way which the man of God who came from Judah had gone." 
1Kings13:13 Then he said to his sons, “Saddle the donkey for me.” So they saddled the donkey for him and he rode away on it." 
1Kings13:14 So he went after the man of God and found him sitting under an oak; and he said to him, “Are you the man of God who came from Judah?” And he said, “I am.”" 
1Kings13:15 Then he said to him, “Come home with me and eat bread.”" 
1Kings13:16 And he said, “I cannot return with you, nor go with you, nor will I eat bread or drink water with you in this place." 
1Kings13:17 For a word came to me by the word of Yahweh, ‘You shall eat no bread, nor drink water there; do not return by going the way which you came.’”" 
1Kings13:18 And he said to him, “I also am a prophet like you, and an angel spoke to me by the word of Yahweh, saying, ‘Bring him back with you to your house, that he may eat bread and drink water.’” But he dealt falsely with him." 
1Kings13:19 So he went back with him, and ate bread in his house and drank water." 
1Kings13:20 Now it happened as they were sitting down at the table, that the word of Yahweh came to the prophet who had brought him back;" 
1Kings13:21 and he called out to the man of God who came from Judah, saying, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Because you have rebelled against the word of Yahweh, and have not kept the commandment which Yahweh your God commanded you," 
1Kings13:22 but have returned and eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which He said to you, “Eat no bread and drink no water”; your body shall not come to the grave of your fathers.’”" 
1Kings13:23 Now it happened after he had eaten bread and after he had drunk, that he saddled the donkey for him, for the prophet whom he had brought back." 
1Kings13:24 Then he went and on the way a lion met him and put him to death, and his body was thrown on the road, with the donkey standing beside it; the lion also was standing beside the body." 
1Kings13:25 And behold, men passed by and saw the body thrown on the road, and the lion standing beside the body; so they came and spoke about it in the city where the old prophet lived." 
1Kings13:26 Then the prophet, who brought him back from the way, heard it and said, “It is the man of God, who rebelled against the command of Yahweh; therefore Yahweh has given him to the lion, which has mauled him and put him to death, according to the word of Yahweh which He spoke to him.”" 
1Kings13:27 Then he spoke to his sons, saying, “Saddle the donkey for me.” And they saddled it." 
1Kings13:28 And he went and found his body thrown on the road with the donkey and the lion standing beside the body; the lion had not eaten the body nor mauled the donkey. 
1Kings13:29 So the prophet took up the body of the man of God and laid it on the donkey and brought it back, and he came to the city of the old prophet to mourn and to bury him." 
1Kings13:30 He laid his body in his own grave, and they mourned over him, saying, “Alas, my brother!”" 
1Kings13:31 Now it happened after he had buried him, that he spoke to his sons, saying, “When I die, you shall bury me in the grave in which the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones." 
1Kings13:32 For the word shall surely happen which he cried by the word of Yahweh against the altar in Bethel and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria.” 
1Kings13:33 After this event Jeroboam did not return from his evil way, but he returned and made priests of the high places from among all the people; any who delighted to be so, he ordained. So they became priests of the high places." 
1Kings13:34 And this event became sin to the house of Jeroboam, even to blot it out and destroy it from off the face of the earth." 
1Kings14:1 At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam became sick. 
1Kings14:2 And Jeroboam said to his wife, “Arise now, and disguise yourself so that they will not know that you are the wife of Jeroboam, and go to Shiloh; behold, Ahijah the prophet is there, who spoke concerning me that I would be king over this people." 
1Kings14:3 And take ten loaves with you, some cakes, and a jar of honey, and go to him. He will tell you what will happen to the boy.”" 
1Kings14:4 Then Jeroboam’s wife did so, and arose and went to Shiloh, and came to the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah could not see, for his eyes had set because of his old age." 
1Kings14:5 Now Yahweh had said to Ahijah, “Behold, the wife of Jeroboam is coming to inquire of you concerning her son, for he is sick. You shall say thus and thus to her, for it will be when she arrives that she will pretend to be another woman.”" 
1Kings14:6 Now it happened as Ahijah heard the sound of her feet coming in the doorway, that he said, “Come in, wife of Jeroboam, why do you pretend to be another woman? For I am sent to you with a harsh message." 
1Kings14:7 Go, say to Jeroboam, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, “Because I exalted you from among the people and made you ruler over My people Israel," 
1Kings14:8 and tore the kingdom away from the house of David and gave it to you—yet you have not been like My servant David, who kept My commandments and who walked after Me with all his heart, to do only that which was right in My sight;" 
1Kings14:9 you also have done more evil than all who were before you, and have gone and made for yourself other gods and molten images to provoke Me to anger, and have cast Me behind your back—" 
1Kings14:10 therefore behold, I am bringing evil on the house of Jeroboam: I will cut off from Jeroboam every male person, both bond and free in Israel, and I will make a clean sweep of the house of Jeroboam, as one sweeps away dung until it is all gone." 
1Kings14:11 Anyone belonging to Jeroboam who dies in the city the dogs will eat. And he who dies in the field the birds of the sky will eat; for Yahweh has spoken it.”’ 
1Kings14:12 But you, arise, go to your house. When your feet enter the city the child will die." 
1Kings14:13 And all Israel shall mourn for him and bury him, for he alone of Jeroboam’s family will come to the grave, because in him something good was found toward Yahweh, the God of Israel, in the house of Jeroboam." 
1Kings14:14 Moreover, Yahweh will raise up for Himself a king over Israel who will cut off the house of Jeroboam this day and from now on." 
1Kings14:15 “So Yahweh will strike Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water; and He will uproot Israel from this good land which He gave to their fathers, and will scatter them beyond the River, because they have made their Asherim, provoking Yahweh to anger." 
1Kings14:16 And He will give Israel over on account of the sins of Jeroboam, which he sinned and with which he made Israel to sin.”" 
1Kings14:17 Then Jeroboam’s wife arose and went away and came to Tirzah. As she was entering the threshold of the house, the child died." 
1Kings14:18 And all Israel buried him and mourned for him, according to the word of Yahweh which He spoke through His servant Ahijah the prophet." 
1Kings14:19 Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he made war and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
1Kings14:20 Now the time that Jeroboam reigned was twenty-two years; and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son became king in his place." 
1Kings14:21 Now Rehoboam the son of Solomon became king in Judah. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which Yahweh had chosen from all the tribes of Israel to put His name there. And his mother’s name was Naamah the Ammonitess." 
1Kings14:22 And Judah did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and they provoked Him to jealousy more than all that their fathers had done, with the sins which they sinned." 
1Kings14:23 They also built for themselves high places and sacred pillars and Asherim on every high hill and beneath every green tree. 
1Kings14:24 There were also male cult prostitutes in the land. They did according to all the abominations of the nations which Yahweh dispossessed before the sons of Israel. 
1Kings14:25 Now it happened in the fifth year of King Rehoboam, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem." 
1Kings14:26 And he took the treasures of the house of Yahweh and the treasures of the king’s house. And he took everything; he even took all the shields of gold which Solomon had made. 
1Kings14:27 Then King Rehoboam made shields of bronze in their place and committed them into the hand of the commanders of the guard who kept the door of the king’s house. 
1Kings14:28 Now it happened as often as the king entered the house of Yahweh, that the guards would carry them and would bring them back into the guards’ room." 
1Kings14:29 Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
1Kings14:30 Now there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all their days. 
1Kings14:31 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David; and his mother’s name was Naamah the Ammonitess. And Abijam his son became king in his place. 
1Kings15:1 Now in the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, Abijam became king over Judah." 
1Kings15:2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom. 
1Kings15:3 And he walked in all the sins of his father which he had committed before him; and his heart was not wholly devoted to Yahweh his God, like the heart of his father David." 
1Kings15:4 But for David’s sake Yahweh his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, to raise up his son after him and to establish Jerusalem;" 
1Kings15:5 because David did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, and had not turned aside from anything that He commanded him all the days of his life, except in the case of Uriah the Hittite." 
1Kings15:6 Now there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life. 
1Kings15:7 Now the rest of the acts of Abijam and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam." 
1Kings15:8 And Abijam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and Asa his son became king in his place." 
1Kings15:9 Now in the twentieth year of Jeroboam the king of Israel, Asa began to reign as king of Judah." 
1Kings15:10 And he reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom. 
1Kings15:11 And Asa did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, like David his father." 
1Kings15:12 He also put away the male cult prostitutes from the land and removed all the idols which his fathers had made. 
1Kings15:13 He also removed Maacah his mother from being queen mother, because she had made a horrid image for Asherah; and Asa cut down her horrid image and burned it at the brook Kidron." 
1Kings15:14 But the high places were not removed; nevertheless the heart of Asa was wholly devoted to Yahweh all his days. 
1Kings15:15 And he brought into the house of Yahweh the holy things of his father and his own holy things: silver and gold and utensils. 
1Kings15:16 Now there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. 
1Kings15:17 And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and built up Ramah in order to prevent anyone from going out or coming in to Asa king of Judah. 
1Kings15:18 Then Asa took all the silver and the gold which were left in the treasuries of the house of Yahweh and the treasuries of the king’s house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants. And King Asa sent them to Ben-hadad the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, king of Aram, who lived in Damascus, saying," 
1Kings15:19 “Let there be a covenant between you and me, as between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent you a gift of silver and gold; go, break your covenant with Baasha king of Israel so that he will withdraw from me.”" 
1Kings15:20 So Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his military force against the cities of Israel, and struck down Ijon, Dan, Abel-beth-maacah and all Chinneroth, besides all the land of Naphtali." 
1Kings15:21 Now it happened that when Baasha heard of it, he ceased building up Ramah and remained in Tirzah." 
1Kings15:22 Then King Asa caused an announcement to be heard throughout all Judah—none was exempt—and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber with which Baasha had been building. And King Asa built with them Geba of Benjamin and Mizpah. 
1Kings15:23 Now the rest of all the acts of Asa and all his might and all that he did and the cities which he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet." 
1Kings15:24 And Asa slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place. 
1Kings15:25 Now Nadab the son of Jeroboam became king over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years." 
1Kings15:26 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and walked in the way of his father and in his sin which he made Israel sin." 
1Kings15:27 Then Baasha the son of Ahijah of the house of Issachar conspired against him, and Baasha struck him down at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines, while Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon." 
1Kings15:28 So Baasha put him to death in the third year of Asa king of Judah and became king in his place. 
1Kings15:29 Now it happened that as soon as he was king, he struck down all the household of Jeroboam. He did not leave to Jeroboam anyone who drew breath, until he had destroyed them, according to the word of Yahweh, which He spoke by the hand of His servant Ahijah the Shilonite," 
1Kings15:30 and because of the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned, and which he made Israel sin, because of his provocation with which he provoked Yahweh, the God of Israel, to anger." 
1Kings15:31 Now the rest of the acts of Nadab and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings15:32 Now there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. 
1Kings15:33 In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah became king over all Israel at Tirzah, and reigned twenty-four years." 
1Kings15:34 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and walked in the way of Jeroboam and in his sin which he made Israel sin." 
1Kings16:1 Now the word of Yahweh came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying," 
1Kings16:2 “Inasmuch as I exalted you from the dust and made you ruler over My people Israel, and you have walked in the way of Jeroboam and have made My people Israel sin, provoking Me to anger with their sins," 
1Kings16:3 behold, I am going to sweep away Baasha and his house, and I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat." 
1Kings16:4 Anyone of Baasha who dies in the city the dogs will eat, and anyone of his who dies in the field the birds of the sky will eat.”" 
1Kings16:5 Now the rest of the acts of Baasha and what he did and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings16:6 And Baasha slept with his fathers and was buried in Tirzah, and Elah his son became king in his place." 
1Kings16:7 Moreover, the word of Yahweh through the hand of the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani also came about against Baasha and his household, both because of all the evil which he did in the sight of Yahweh, provoking Him to anger with the work of his hands, in being like the house of Jeroboam, and because he struck it." 
1Kings16:8 In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha became king over Israel at Tirzah, and reigned two years." 
1Kings16:9 And his servant Zimri, commander of half his chariots, conspired against him. Now he was at Tirzah drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the household at Tirzah." 
1Kings16:10 Then Zimri went in and struck him and put him to death in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and became king in his place." 
1Kings16:11 Now it happened when he became king, as soon as he sat on his throne, that he struck down all the household of Baasha; he did not leave a single male—not even any of his kinsman redeemers or his friends." 
1Kings16:12 Thus Zimri destroyed all the household of Baasha, according to the word of Yahweh, which He spoke against Baasha by the hand of Jehu the prophet," 
1Kings16:13 for all the sins of Baasha and the sins of Elah his son, which they sinned and which they made Israel sin, provoking Yahweh, the God of Israel, to anger with their idols." 
1Kings16:14 Now the rest of the acts of Elah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings16:15 In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned seven days at Tirzah. Now the people were camped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines." 
1Kings16:16 And the people who were camped heard it said, “Zimri has conspired and has also struck down the king.” Therefore all Israel made Omri, the commander of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp." 
1Kings16:17 Then Omri and all Israel with him went up from Gibbethon and besieged Tirzah. 
1Kings16:18 Now it happened that when Zimri saw that the city was captured, he went into the citadel of the king’s house and burned the king’s house over him with fire, and died," 
1Kings16:19 because of his sins which he sinned, doing what is evil in the sight of Yahweh, walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did, making Israel sin." 
1Kings16:20 Now the rest of the acts of Zimri and his conspiracy which he carried out, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings16:21 Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king; the other half followed Omri." 
1Kings16:22 But the people who followed Omri prevailed over the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath. And Tibni died and Omri became king. 
1Kings16:23 In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri became king over Israel and reigned twelve years; he reigned six years at Tirzah." 
1Kings16:24 And he bought the hill Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver; and he built on the hill, and named the city which he built Samaria, after the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill." 
1Kings16:25 And Omri did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, and acted more wickedly than all who were before him." 
1Kings16:26 For he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and in his sins which he made Israel sin, provoking Yahweh, the God of Israel, to anger with their idols." 
1Kings16:27 Now the rest of the acts of Omri which he did and his might which he showed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings16:28 So Omri slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria; and Ahab his son became king in his place. 
1Kings16:29 Now Ahab the son of Omri became king over Israel in the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah, and Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty-two years." 
1Kings16:30 And Ahab the son of Omri did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh more than all who were before him. 
1Kings16:31 Now it happened, as though it had been a trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians as a wife, and went and served Baal and worshiped him." 
1Kings16:32 So he erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal which he built in Samaria. 
1Kings16:33 Ahab also made the Asherah. Thus Ahab did more to provoke Yahweh, the God of Israel, to anger than all the kings of Israel who were before him." 
1Kings16:34 In his days Hiel the Bethelite built Jericho; he laid its foundations with the loss of Abiram his firstborn, and set up its gates with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of Yahweh, which He spoke by the hand of Joshua the son of Nun." 
1Kings16:34 In his days Hiel the Bethelite built Jericho; he laid its foundations with the loss of Abiram his firstborn, and set up its gates with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of Yahweh, which He spoke by the hand of Joshua the son of Nun." 
1Kings17:1 Now Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the settlers of Gilead, said to Ahab, “As Yahweh, the God of Israel, lives, before whom I stand, surely there shall be neither dew nor rain these years, except by my word.”" 
1Kings17:2 Then the word of Yahweh came to him, saying," 
1Kings17:3 “Go away from here and turn eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is east of the Jordan." 
1Kings17:4 And it will be that you will drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to sustain you there.”" 
1Kings17:5 So he went and did according to the word of Yahweh, for he went and lived by the brook Cherith, which is east of the Jordan." 
1Kings17:6 And the ravens were bringing him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening, and he would drink from the brook." 
1Kings17:7 Now it happened after a while that the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land." 
1Kings17:8 Then the word of Yahweh came to him, saying," 
1Kings17:9 “Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and remain there; behold, I have commanded a widow there to sustain you.”" 
1Kings17:10 So he arose and went to Zarephath, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks; and he called to her and said, “Please get me a little water in a jar, that I may drink.”" 
1Kings17:11 So she went to get it, and he called to her and said, “Please get me a piece of bread in your hand.”" 
1Kings17:12 But she said, “As Yahweh your God lives, I have no bread, only a handful of flour in the bowl and a little oil in the jar; and behold, I am gathering a few sticks that I may go in and prepare for me and my son, that we may eat it and die.”" 
1Kings17:13 Then Elijah said to her, “Do not fear; go, do as you have said, but make me a little bread cake from it first and bring it out to me, and afterward you may make one for yourself and for your son." 
1Kings17:14 For thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘The bowl of flour shall not be exhausted, nor shall the jar of oil be empty, until the day that Yahweh sends rain on the face of the earth.’”" 
1Kings17:15 So she went and did according to the word of Elijah, and she and he and her household ate for many days." 
1Kings17:16 The bowl of flour was not exhausted nor did the jar of oil become empty, according to the word of Yahweh which He spoke by the hand of Elijah." 
1Kings17:17 Now it happened after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became sick; and his sickness was so severe that there was no breath left in him." 
1Kings17:18 So she said to Elijah, “What do I have to do with you, O man of God? You have come to me to bring my iniquity to remembrance and to put my son to death!”" 
1Kings17:19 And he said to her, “Give me your son.” Then he took him from her bosom and carried him up to the upper room where he was living, and laid him on his own bed." 
1Kings17:20 Then he called to Yahweh and said, “O Yahweh my God, have You also brought calamity to the widow with whom I am sojourning, by causing her son to die?”" 
1Kings17:21 Then he stretched himself upon the child three times, and called to Yahweh and said, “O Yahweh my God, I pray You, let this child’s life return to him.”" 
1Kings17:22 And Yahweh heard the voice of Elijah, and the life of the child returned to him and he became alive." 
1Kings17:23 Then Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper room into the house and gave him to his mother; and Elijah said, “See, your son is alive.”" 
1Kings17:24 Then the woman said to Elijah, “Now I know this: that you are a man of God and that the word of Yahweh in your mouth is truth.”" 
1Kings18:1 Now it happened after many days that the word of Yahweh came to Elijah in the third year, saying, “Go, show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain on the face of the earth.”" 
1Kings18:2 So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. Now the famine was severe in Samaria. 
1Kings18:3 And Ahab called Obadiah who was over the household. (Now Obadiah feared Yahweh greatly. 
1Kings18:3 And Ahab called Obadiah who was over the household. (Now Obadiah feared Yahweh greatly. 
1Kings18:4 And it happened that when Jezebel was cutting down the prophets of Yahweh, Obadiah took one hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave, and sustained them with bread and water.)" 
1Kings18:4 And it happened that when Jezebel was cutting down the prophets of Yahweh, Obadiah took one hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave, and sustained them with bread and water.)" 
1Kings18:5 Then Ahab said to Obadiah, “Go through the land to all the springs of water and to all the valleys; perhaps we will find grass and keep the horses and mules alive, and not have to cut down some of the cattle.”" 
1Kings18:5 Then Ahab said to Obadiah, “Go through the land to all the springs of water and to all the valleys; perhaps we will find grass and keep the horses and mules alive, and not have to cut down some of the cattle.”" 
1Kings18:6 So they divided the land between them to pass through it; Ahab went one way by himself and Obadiah went another way by himself. 
1Kings18:6 So they divided the land between them to pass through it; Ahab went one way by himself and Obadiah went another way by himself. 
1Kings18:7 Now it happened that as Obadiah was on the way, behold, Elijah met him, and he recognized him and fell on his face and said, “Is this you, Elijah my master?”" 
1Kings18:7 Now it happened that as Obadiah was on the way, behold, Elijah met him, and he recognized him and fell on his face and said, “Is this you, Elijah my master?”" 
1Kings18:8 And he said to him, “It is I. Go, say to your master, ‘Behold, Elijah is here.’”" 
1Kings18:9 And he said, “What sin have I committed, that you are giving your servant into the hand of Ahab to put me to death?" 
1Kings18:10 As Yahweh your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my master has not sent to search for you; and if they said, ‘He is not here,’ he made the kingdom or nation swear that they could not find you." 
1Kings18:11 And now you are saying, ‘Go, say to your master, “Behold, Elijah is here.”’" 
1Kings18:12 And it will be that when I leave you, the Spirit of Yahweh will carry you where I do not know; and I will come and tell Ahab, and he will not find you, and he will kill me, although I your servant have feared Yahweh from my youth." 
1Kings18:13 Has it not been told to my master what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of Yahweh, that I hid one hundred prophets of Yahweh by fifties in a cave, and sustained them with bread and water?" 
1Kings18:14 So now you are saying, ‘Go, say to your master, “Behold, Elijah is here”’; he will then kill me.”" 
1Kings18:15 And Elijah said, “As Yahweh of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to him today.”" 
1Kings18:16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him; and Ahab went to meet Elijah. 
1Kings18:16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him; and Ahab went to meet Elijah. 
1Kings18:17 Now it happened when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said to him, “Is this you, you troubler of Israel?”" 
1Kings18:18 And he said, “I have not troubled Israel, but you and your father’s house have, because you have forsaken the commandments of Yahweh and you have followed the Baals." 
1Kings18:19 So now then send and gather to me all Israel at Mount Carmel, together with 450 prophets of Baal and 400 prophets of the Asherah, who eat at Jezebel’s table.”" 
1Kings18:20 So Ahab sent a message among all the sons of Israel and gathered the prophets together at Mount Carmel. 
1Kings18:21 And Elijah came near to all the people and said, “How long will you be limping between two opinions? If Yahweh is God, follow Him; but if Baal, follow him.” But the people did not answer him a word." 
1Kings18:22 Then Elijah said to the people, “I alone am left a prophet of Yahweh, but Baal’s prophets are 450 men." 
1Kings18:23 Now let them give us two oxen; and let them choose one ox for themselves and cut it up, and place it on the wood, but place no fire under it; and I will prepare the other ox and put it on the wood, and I will not place fire under it." 
1Kings18:24 Then you call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of Yahweh, and the God who answers by fire, He is God.” And all the people answered and said, “That is a good word.”" 
1Kings18:25 So Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, “Choose one ox for yourselves and prepare it first for you are many, and call on the name of your god, but place no fire under it.”" 
1Kings18:26 Then they took the ox which was given them and they prepared it and called on the name of Baal from morning until noon saying, “O Baal, answer us.” But there was no voice and no one answered. And they limped about the altar which they had made." 
1Kings18:27 Now it happened at noon, that Elijah mocked them and said, “Call out with a loud voice, for he is a god; either he is occupied or relieving himself, or is on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep and needs to be awakened.”" 
1Kings18:28 So they cried with a loud voice and gashed themselves according to their custom with swords and lances until the blood gushed out on them. 
1Kings18:29 Now it happened when noon had passed, that they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice; but there was no voice, no one answered, and no one paid attention." 
1Kings18:30 Then Elijah said to all the people, “Come near to me.” So all the people came near to him. And he repaired the altar of Yahweh which had been pulled down." 
1Kings18:31 Then Elijah took twelve stones according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of Yahweh had come, saying, “Israel shall be your name.”" 
1Kings18:32 And with the stones he built an altar in the name of Yahweh, and he made a trench around the altar, large enough to hold two seahs of seed." 
1Kings18:33 Then he arranged the wood and cut the ox in pieces and placed it on the wood. 
1Kings18:34 And he said, “Fill four pitchers with water and pour it on the burnt offering and on the wood.” And he said, “Do it a second time,” and they did it a second time. And he said, “Do it a third time,” and they did it a third time." 
1Kings18:35 And the water flowed around the altar and he also filled the trench with water. 
1Kings18:36 Now it happened at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near and said, “O Yahweh, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, today let it be known that You are God in Israel and that I am Your slave and I have done all these things at Your word." 
1Kings18:37 Answer me, O Yahweh, answer me, that this people may know that You, O Yahweh, are God, and that You have turned their heart back again.”" 
1Kings18:38 Then the fire of Yahweh fell and consumed the burnt offering and the wood and the stones and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench." 
1Kings18:39 And all the people saw it and fell on their faces and said, “Yahweh, He is God; Yahweh, He is God.”" 
1Kings18:40 Then Elijah said to them, “Seize the prophets of Baal; do not let one of them escape.” So they seized them; and Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon, and slaughtered them there." 
1Kings18:41 Now Elijah said to Ahab, “Go up, eat and drink; for there is the sound of the tumult of rain.”" 
1Kings18:42 So Ahab went up to eat and drink. But Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he stretched himself down toward the ground and put his face between his knees. 
1Kings18:43 And he said to his young man, “Go up now, look toward the sea.” So he went up and looked and said, “There is nothing.” And he said, “Go back” seven times." 
1Kings18:44 Now it happened at the seventh time, that he said, “Behold, a cloud as small as a man’s hand is coming up from the sea.” And he said, “Go up, say to Ahab, ‘Prepare your chariot and go down, so that the rain does not stop you.’”" 
1Kings18:45 Now it happened that in a little while the sky grew dark with clouds and wind, and there was a heavy rain. And Ahab rode and went to Jezreel." 
1Kings18:46 But the hand of Yahweh was on Elijah, and he girded up his loins and outran Ahab unto where you enter Jezreel." 
1Kings19:1 Now Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword." 
1Kings19:2 Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, “So may the gods do to me and even more, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by about this time tomorrow.”" 
1Kings19:3 And he was afraid and arose and ran for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his young man there." 
1Kings19:4 But he himself went a day’s journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a broom tree; and he asked for himself that he might die, and said, “It is enough; now, O Yahweh, take my life, for I am not better than my fathers.”" 
1Kings19:5 Then he lay down and slept under a broom tree; and behold, there was an angel touching him, and he said to him, “Arise, eat.”" 
1Kings19:6 Then he looked and behold, there was at his head a bread cake baked on hot stones, and a jar of water. So he ate and drank and lay down again." 
1Kings19:7 And the angel of Yahweh came again a second time and touched him and said, “Arise, eat, because the journey is too great for you.”" 
1Kings19:8 So he arose and ate and drank, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb, the mountain of God." 
1Kings19:9 Then he came there to a cave and lodged there; and behold, the word of Yahweh came to him, and He said to him, “What are you doing here, Elijah?”" 
1Kings19:10 And he said, “I have been very zealous for Yahweh, the God of hosts; for the sons of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, pulled down Your altars and killed Your prophets with the sword. And I alone am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.”" 
1Kings19:11 So He said, “Go forth and stand on the mountain before Yahweh.” And behold, Yahweh was passing by! And a great and strong wind was tearing up the mountains and breaking in pieces the rocks before Yahweh; but Yahweh was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake, but Yahweh was not in the earthquake." 
1Kings19:12 Then after the earthquake a fire, but Yahweh was not in the fire; and after the fire a sound of a thin gentle whisper." 
1Kings19:13 Now it happened that when Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood in the entrance of the cave. And behold, a voice came to him and said, “What are you doing here, Elijah?”" 
1Kings19:14 Then he said, “I have been very zealous for Yahweh, the God of hosts; for the sons of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, pulled down Your altars and killed Your prophets with the sword. And I alone am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.”" 
1Kings19:15 And Yahweh said to him, “Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus, and you will arrive and anoint Hazael king over Aram;" 
1Kings19:16 and Jehu the son of Nimshi you shall anoint king over Israel; and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah you shall anoint as prophet in your place. 
1Kings19:17 And it will be that the one who escapes from the sword of Hazael, Jehu shall put to death, and the one who escapes from the sword of Jehu, Elisha shall put to death." 
1Kings19:18 Yet I will leave 7,000 in Israel, all the knees that have not bowed to Baal and every mouth that has not kissed him.”" 
1Kings19:19 So he went from there and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, while he was plowing with twelve pairs of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth. And Elijah passed over to him and threw his mantle on him." 
1Kings19:20 So he forsook the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, “Please let me kiss my father and my mother, then I will follow you.” And he said to him, “Go back again, for what have I done to you?”" 
1Kings19:21 So he returned from following him, and took the pair of oxen and sacrificed them and boiled their flesh with the implements of the oxen, and gave it to the people and they ate. Then he arose and followed Elijah and ministered to him." 
1Kings20:1 Now Ben-hadad king of Aram gathered all his military force, and there were thirty-two kings with him, and horses and chariots. And he went up and besieged Samaria and fought against it." 
1Kings20:2 Then he sent messengers to the city to Ahab king of Israel and said to him, “Thus says Ben-hadad," 
1Kings20:3 ‘Your silver and your gold are mine; your most beautiful wives and children are also mine.’” 
1Kings20:4 Then the king of Israel answered and said, “It is according to your word, my lord, O king; I am yours, and all that I have.”" 
1Kings20:5 Then the messengers returned and said, “Thus says Ben-hadad, ‘Surely, I sent to you saying, “You shall give me your silver and your gold and your wives and your children,”" 
1Kings20:6 but about this time tomorrow I will send my servants to you, and they will search your house and the houses of your servants; and whatever is desirable in your eyes, they will put in their hand and carry away.’”" 
1Kings20:7 Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land and said, “Please know and see how this man is looking for trouble; for he sent to me for my wives and my children and my silver and my gold, and I withheld nothing from him.”" 
1Kings20:8 And all the elders and all the people said to him, “Do not listen or consent.”" 
1Kings20:9 So he said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, “Say to my lord the king, ‘All that you sent for to your servant at the first I will do, but this thing I cannot do.’” And the messengers departed and brought him word again." 
1Kings20:10 Then Ben-hadad sent to him and said, “May the gods do so to me and more also, if the dust of Samaria will be sufficient for a handful for all the people who follow me.”" 
1Kings20:11 Then the king of Israel answered and said, “Speak to him, ‘Let not him who girds on his armor boast like him who takes it off.’”" 
1Kings20:12 Now it happened that when Ben-hadad heard this message, as he was drinking with the kings in the booths, he said to his servants, “Station yourselves.” So they stationed themselves against the city." 
1Kings20:13 Now behold, a prophet approached Ahab king of Israel and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Have you seen all this great multitude? Behold, I will deliver them into your hand today, and you shall know that I am Yahweh.’”" 
1Kings20:14 And Ahab said, “By whom?” So he said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘By the young men of the rulers of the provinces.’” Then he said, “Who shall begin the battle?” And he said, “You.”" 
1Kings20:15 Then he mustered the young men of the rulers of the provinces, and there were 232; and after them he mustered all the people, even all the sons of Israel, 7,000." 
1Kings20:16 And they went out at noon, while Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the booths with the thirty-two kings who helped him." 
1Kings20:17 And the young men of the rulers of the provinces went out first; and Ben-hadad sent out and they told him, saying, “Men have come out from Samaria.”" 
1Kings20:18 Then he said, “If they have come out for peace, take them alive; or if they have come out for war, take them alive.”" 
1Kings20:19 So these went out from the city, the young men of the rulers of the provinces, and the military force which followed them." 
1Kings20:20 And they each struck his man; and the Arameans fled and Israel pursued them, and Ben-hadad king of Aram escaped on a horse with horsemen." 
1Kings20:21 And the king of Israel went out and struck down the horses and chariots, and struck the Arameans with a great slaughter." 
1Kings20:22 Then the prophet came near to the king of Israel and said to him, “Go, strengthen yourself and know and see what you have to do; for at the turn of the year the king of Aram will come up against you.”" 
1Kings20:23 Now the servants of the king of Aram said to him, “Their gods are gods of the mountains, therefore they were stronger than we; but rather let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we will be stronger than they." 
1Kings20:24 Do this thing: remove the kings, each from his place, and put captains in their place," 
1Kings20:25 and you shall number a military force like the military force that you have lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot. Then we will fight against them in the plain, and surely we will be stronger than they.” And he listened to their voice and did so." 
1Kings20:26 Now it happened at the turn of the year, that Ben-hadad mustered the Arameans and went up to Aphek to fight against Israel." 
1Kings20:27 Now the sons of Israel were mustered and were provided for and went to meet them; and the sons of Israel camped before them like two little flocks of goats, but the Arameans filled the land." 
1Kings20:28 Then a man of God came near and spoke to the king of Israel and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Because the Arameans have said, “Yahweh is a god of the mountains, but He is not a god of the valleys,” therefore I will give all this great multitude into your hand, and you shall know that I am Yahweh.’”" 
1Kings20:29 So they camped one opposite the other seven days. Now it happened that on the seventh day the battle was joined, and the sons of Israel struck down of the Arameans 100,000 foot soldiers in one day." 
1Kings20:30 But the rest fled to Aphek into the city, and the wall fell on 27,000 men who were left. And Ben-hadad fled and came into the city into an inner chamber." 
1Kings20:31 Then his servants said to him, “Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are kings of lovingkindness, please let us put sackcloth on our loins and ropes on our heads, and go out to the king of Israel; perhaps he will preserve your life.”" 
1Kings20:32 So they girded sackcloth on their loins and put ropes on their heads, and came to the king of Israel and said, “Your servant Ben-hadad says, ‘Please let me live.’” And he said, “Is he still alive? He is my brother.”" 
1Kings20:33 Now the men interpreted this as an omen, and hastily catching his word said, “Your brother Ben-hadad.” Then he said, “Go, bring him.” Then Ben-hadad came out to him, and he took him up into the chariot." 
1Kings20:34 And Ben-hadad said to him, “The cities which my father took from your father I will return, and you shall make streets for yourself in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria.” Ahab said, “And I will let you go with this covenant.” So he cut a covenant with him and let him go." 
1Kings20:35 Now a certain man of the sons of the prophets said to another by the word of Yahweh, “Please strike me.” But the man refused to strike him." 
1Kings20:36 Then he said to him, “Because you have not listened to the voice of Yahweh, behold, as soon as you walk away from me, a lion will strike you down.” And as soon as he had walked away from him, a lion found him and struck him down." 
1Kings20:37 Then he found another man and said, “Please strike me.” And the man struck him, wounding him." 
1Kings20:38 So the prophet walked away and stood by, for the king by the way, and disguised himself with a bandage over his eyes." 
1Kings20:39 Now it happened that as the king was passing by, he cried out to the king and said, “Your servant went out into the midst of the battle; and behold, a man turned aside and brought a man to me and said, ‘Guard this man; if for any reason he is missing, then your life shall be for his life, or else you shall pay a talent of silver.’" 
1Kings20:40 Now it happened that while your servant was busy here and there, he was gone.” And the king of Israel said to him, “So shall your judgment be; you yourself have decided it.”" 
1Kings20:41 Then he hastily took the bandage away from his eyes, and the king of Israel recognized him, that he was of the prophets." 
1Kings20:42 And he said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Because you have let go out of your hand the man whom I had devoted to destruction, therefore your life shall go for his life, and your people for his people.’”" 
1Kings20:43 So the king of Israel went to his house sullen and enraged, and came to Samaria." 
1Kings21:1 Now it happened after these things that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard which was in Jezreel beside the palace of Ahab king of Samaria. 
1Kings21:2 And Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, “Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden because it is close beside my house, and I will give you a better vineyard than it in its place; if it is good in your sight, I will give you the price of it in money.”" 
1Kings21:3 But Naboth said to Ahab, “Yahweh forbid me that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers.”" 
1Kings21:4 So Ahab came into his house sullen and enraged because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him; for he said, “I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers.” And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and ate no food." 
1Kings21:5 But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, “How is it that your spirit is so sullen that you are not eating food?”" 
1Kings21:6 So he said to her, “Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and said to him, ‘Give me your vineyard for money; or else, if it pleases you, I will give you a vineyard in its place.’ But he said, ‘I will not give you my vineyard.’”" 
1Kings21:7 And Jezebel his wife said to him, “Do you now exercise kingship over Israel? Arise, eat bread, and let your heart be merry; I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.”" 
1Kings21:8 So she wrote letters in Ahab’s name and sealed them with his seal, and sent letters to the elders and to the nobles who were living with Naboth in his city." 
1Kings21:9 And she wrote in the letters, saying, “Call for a fast and seat Naboth at the head of the people;" 
1Kings21:10 and seat two vile men before him, and let them testify against him, saying, ‘You cursed God and the king.’ Then take him out and stone him so that he will die.”" 
1Kings21:11 So the men of his city, the elders and the nobles who lived in his city, did as Jezebel had sent word to them, just as it was written in the letters which she had sent them." 
1Kings21:12 They called for a fast and seated Naboth at the head of the people. 
1Kings21:13 Then the two vile men came in and sat before him; and the vile men testified against him, against Naboth, before the people, saying, “Naboth cursed God and the king.” So they took him outside the city and stoned him with stones and he died." 
1Kings21:14 Then they sent word to Jezebel, saying, “Naboth has been stoned and is dead.”" 
1Kings21:15 Now it happened that when Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, Jezebel said to Ahab, “Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money; for Naboth is not alive, but dead.”" 
1Kings21:16 Now it happened that when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, Ahab arose to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to take possession of it." 
1Kings21:17 Then the word of Yahweh came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying," 
1Kings21:18 “Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, who is in Samaria; behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth where he has gone down to take possession of it." 
1Kings21:19 And you shall speak to him, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Have you murdered and also taken possession?”’ And you shall speak to him, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “In the place where the dogs licked up the blood of Naboth the dogs will lick up your blood, even yours.”’”" 
1Kings21:20 And Ahab said to Elijah, “Have you found me, O my enemy?” And he answered, “I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do what is evil in the sight of Yahweh." 
1Kings21:21 Behold, I will bring evil upon you, and will utterly sweep you away, and will cut off from Ahab every male, both bond and free in Israel;" 
1Kings21:22 and I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah, because of the provocation with which you have provoked Me to anger, and because you have made Israel sin." 
1Kings21:23 Of Jezebel also has Yahweh spoken, saying, ‘The dogs will eat Jezebel in the district of Jezreel.’" 
1Kings21:24 The one belonging to Ahab, who dies in the city, the dogs will eat, and the one who dies in the field the birds of the sky will eat.”" 
1Kings21:25 Surely there was no one who sold himself to do what is evil in the sight of Yahweh like Ahab, whom Jezebel his wife incited." 
1Kings21:26 And he acted very abominably in following idols, according to all that the Amorites had done, whom Yahweh dispossessed before the sons of Israel." 
1Kings21:27 Now it happened when Ahab heard these words, that he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and fasted, and he lay in sackcloth and went about despondently." 
1Kings21:28 Then the word of Yahweh came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying," 
1Kings21:29 “Do you see how Ahab has humbled himself before Me? Because he has humbled himself before Me, I will not bring the evil in his days, but I will bring the evil upon his house in his son’s days.”" 
1Kings22:1 So they lived for three years without war between Aram and Israel. 
1Kings22:2 Now it happened in the third year, that Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel." 
1Kings22:3 Then the king of Israel said to his servants, “Do you know that Ramoth-gilead belongs to us, but we are sitting still so as not to take it out of the hand of the king of Aram?”" 
1Kings22:4 So he said to Jehoshaphat, “Will you go with me to battle at Ramoth-gilead?” And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.”" 
1Kings22:5 Moreover, Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “Please inquire first for the word of Yahweh.”" 
1Kings22:6 Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said to them, “Shall I go against Ramoth-gilead to battle or shall I refrain?” And they said, “Go up, for the Lord will give it into the hand of the king.”" 
1Kings22:7 But Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not yet a prophet of Yahweh here that we may inquire of him?”" 
1Kings22:8 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Yahweh, but I hate him, because he does not prophesy good concerning me, but evil. He is Micaiah son of Imlah.” But Jehoshaphat said, “Let not the king say so.”" 
1Kings22:9 Then the king of Israel called an officer and said, “Hasten to bring Micaiah son of Imlah.”" 
1Kings22:10 Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah were sitting each on his throne, clothed in their royal garments, at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them." 
1Kings22:11 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made horns of iron for himself and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘With these you will gore the Arameans until they are consumed.’”" 
1Kings22:12 All the prophets were also prophesying thus, saying, “Go up to Ramoth-gilead and succeed, and Yahweh will give it into the hand of the king.”" 
1Kings22:13 Now the messenger who went to summon Micaiah spoke to him saying, “Behold now, the words of the prophets, as if from one mouth, are good towards the king. Please let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak that which is good.”" 
1Kings22:14 But Micaiah said, “As Yahweh lives, what Yahweh says to me, that I shall speak.”" 
1Kings22:15 Then he came to the king, and the king said to him, “Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall we refrain?” And he said to him, “Go up and succeed, and Yahweh will give it into the hand of the king.”" 
1Kings22:16 Then the king said to him, “How many times must I make you swear that you will speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of Yahweh?”" 
1Kings22:17 So he said, “I saw all Israel Scattered on the mountains, Like sheep which have no shepherd. And Yahweh said, ‘These have no master. Let each of them return to his house in peace.’”" 
1Kings22:18 Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Did I not say to you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?”" 
1Kings22:19 Then Micaiah said, “Therefore, hear the word of Yahweh. I saw Yahweh sitting on His throne, and all the host of heaven standing by Him on His right and on His left." 
1Kings22:20 And Yahweh said, ‘Who will entice Ahab so that he will go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?’ And one said this while another said that." 
1Kings22:21 Then a spirit came forward and stood before Yahweh and said, ‘I will entice him.’" 
1Kings22:22 And Yahweh said to him, ‘How?’ And he said, ‘I will go out and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ Then He said, ‘You shall entice him and also prevail. Go out and do so.’" 
1Kings22:23 So now, behold, Yahweh has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets; but Yahweh has spoken calamity against you.”" 
1Kings22:24 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, “How did the Spirit of Yahweh pass from me to speak to you?”" 
1Kings22:25 And Micaiah said, “Behold, you will see on that day when you enter an inner room to hide.”" 
1Kings22:26 Then the king of Israel said, “Take Micaiah and return him to Amon the commander of the city and to Joash the king’s son;" 
1Kings22:27 and say, ‘Thus says the king, “Put this man in prison and feed him sparingly with bread and water until I come back safely.”’”" 
1Kings22:28 And Micaiah said, “If you indeed return safely, Yahweh has not spoken by me.” And he said, “Listen, all you people.”" 
1Kings22:29 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up against Ramoth-gilead. 
1Kings22:30 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will disguise myself and go into the battle, but you put on your garments.” So the king of Israel disguised himself and went into the battle." 
1Kings22:31 Now the king of Aram had commanded the thirty-two commanders of his chariots, saying, “Do not fight with small or great, but with the king of Israel alone.”" 
1Kings22:32 Now it happened that when the commanders of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, “Surely it is the king of Israel,” and they turned aside to fight against him, and Jehoshaphat cried out." 
1Kings22:33 So it happened that when the commanders of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him." 
1Kings22:34 Now a certain man drew his bow at random and struck the king of Israel in a joint of the armor. So he said to the driver of his chariot, “Turn around and take me out of the fight, for I am severely wounded.”" 
1Kings22:35 Now the battle raged that day, and the king was propped up in his chariot in front of the Arameans, and died at evening, and the blood from the wound ran into the bottom of the chariot." 
1Kings22:36 Then a shout of lament passed throughout the camp close to sunset, saying, “Every man to his city and every man to his land.”" 
1Kings22:37 So the king died and was brought to Samaria, and they buried the king in Samaria." 
1Kings22:38 And they washed the chariot by the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood (now the harlots bathed themselves there), according to the word of Yahweh which He spoke." 
1Kings22:39 Now the rest of the acts of Ahab and all that he did and the ivory house which he built and all the cities which he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings22:40 So Ahab slept with his fathers, and Ahaziah his son became king in his place." 
1Kings22:41 Now Jehoshaphat the son of Asa became king over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. 
1Kings22:42 Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi." 
1Kings22:43 And he walked in all the way of Asa his father; he did not turn away from it, doing what is right in the sight of Yahweh. However, the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burnt incense on the high places." 
1Kings22:44 Jehoshaphat also made peace with the king of Israel. 
1Kings22:45 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might which he showed and how he warred, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
1Kings22:46 And the remnant of the male cult prostitutes who remained in the days of his father Asa, he purged from the land." 
1Kings22:47 Now there was no king in Edom; a deputy was king. 
1Kings22:48 Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold, but they did not go for the ships were broken at Ezion-geber." 
1Kings22:49 Then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “Let my servants go with your servants in the ships.” But Jehoshaphat was not willing." 
1Kings22:50 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of his father David, and Jehoram his son became king in his place." 
1Kings22:51 Ahaziah the son of Ahab became king over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned two years over Israel." 
1Kings22:52 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh and walked in the way of his father and in the way of his mother and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin." 
1Kings22:53 So he served Baal and worshiped him and provoked Yahweh, the God of Israel, to anger, according to all that his father had done." 
2Kings1:1 Now Moab revolted against Israel after the death of Ahab. 
2Kings1:2 And Ahaziah fell through the lattice in his upper chamber, which was in Samaria, and became ill. So he sent messengers and said to them, “Go, inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron, whether I will live from this sickness.”" 
2Kings1:3 But the angel of Yahweh said to Elijah the Tishbite, “Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria and say to them, ‘Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron?’" 
2Kings1:4 Now therefore thus says Yahweh, ‘You shall not come down from the bed where you have gone up, but you shall surely die.’” Then Elijah departed." 
2Kings1:5 So the messengers returned to him, and he said to them, “Why have you returned?”" 
2Kings1:6 And they said to him, “A man came up to meet us and said to us, ‘Go, return to the king who sent you and say to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are sending to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore you shall not come down from the bed where you have gone up, but shall surely die.’”’”" 
2Kings1:7 And he said to them, “What kind of man was he who came up to meet you and spoke these words to you?”" 
2Kings1:8 And they said to him, “He was a hairy man with a leather girdle girded about his loins.” And he said, “It is Elijah the Tishbite.”" 
2Kings1:9 Then the king sent to him a commander of fifty with his fifty. And he went up to him, and behold, he was sitting on the top of the hill. And he said to him, “O man of God, the king says, ‘Come down.’”" 
2Kings1:10 And Elijah answered and spoke to the commander of fifty, “If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty.” Then fire came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty." 
2Kings1:11 So he again sent to him another commander of fifty with his fifty. And he answered and spoke to him, “O man of God, thus says the king, ‘Come down quickly.’”" 
2Kings1:12 And Elijah answered and spoke to them, “If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty.” Then the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty." 
2Kings1:13 So he again sent the commander of a third fifty with his fifty. Then the third commander of fifty went up and came and bowed down on his knees before Elijah, and he begged him and said to him, “O man of God, please let my life and the lives of these fifty servants of yours be precious in your sight." 
2Kings1:14 Behold, fire came down from heaven and consumed the first two commanders of fifty with their fifties; but now let my life be precious in your sight.”" 
2Kings1:15 Then the angel of Yahweh spoke to Elijah, “Go down with him; do not be afraid of him.” So he arose and went down with him to the king." 
2Kings1:16 Then he spoke to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Because you have sent messengers to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron—is it because there is no God in Israel to inquire of His word?—therefore you shall not come down from the bed where you have gone up, but shall surely die.’”" 
2Kings1:17 So Ahaziah died according to the word of Yahweh which Elijah had spoken. And because he had no son, Jehoram became king in his place in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah." 
2Kings1:18 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings2:1 Now it happened when Yahweh was about to take up Elijah by a whirlwind to heaven, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal." 
2Kings2:2 And Elijah said to Elisha, “Stay here please, for Yahweh has sent me as far as Bethel.” But Elisha said, “As Yahweh lives and as your soul lives, I will not forsake you.” So they went down to Bethel." 
2Kings2:3 Then the sons of the prophets who were at Bethel came out to Elisha and said to him, “Do you know that Yahweh will take away your master from over you today?” And he said, “Yes, I know; be silent.”" 
2Kings2:4 And Elijah said to him, “Elisha, please stay here, for Yahweh has sent me to Jericho.” But he said, “As Yahweh lives and as your soul lives, I will not forsake you.” So they came to Jericho." 
2Kings2:5 Then the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho approached Elisha and said to him, “Do you know that Yahweh will take away your master from over you today?” And he answered, “Yes, I know; be silent.”" 
2Kings2:6 Then Elijah said to him, “Please stay here, for Yahweh has sent me to the Jordan.” And he said, “As Yahweh lives and as your soul lives, I will not forsake you.” So the two of them went on." 
2Kings2:7 Now fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood opposite them at a distance, but the two of them stood by the Jordan." 
2Kings2:8 And Elijah took his mantle and folded it together and struck the waters, and they were divided here and there, so that the two of them crossed over on dry ground." 
2Kings2:9 Now it happened when they crossed over, that Elijah said to Elisha, “Ask what I shall do for you before I am taken from you.” And Elisha said, “Please, let a double portion of your spirit be upon me.”" 
2Kings2:10 And he said, “You have asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if you see me when I am taken from you, it shall be so for you; but if not, it shall not be so.”" 
2Kings2:11 As they were going along and talking, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire, and it separated the two of them. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind to heaven." 
2Kings2:12 And Elisha was seeing this and he was crying out, “My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and its horsemen!” And he saw Elijah no more. Then he took hold of his own clothes and tore them in two pieces." 
2Kings2:13 He also took up the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and returned and stood by the bank of the Jordan. 
2Kings2:14 And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and struck the waters and said, “Where is Yahweh, the God of Elijah?” Indeed, he himself also struck the waters, and they were divided here and there! And Elisha crossed over." 
2Kings2:15 Then the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho opposite him saw him and said, “The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha.” And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him." 
2Kings2:16 Then they said to him, “Behold now, there are with your servants fifty excellent men, please let them go and search for your master, lest the Spirit of Yahweh has taken him up and cast him on some mountain or into some valley.” And he said, “You shall not send.”" 
2Kings2:17 But when they urged him until he was ashamed, he said, “Send.” They sent therefore fifty men; and they searched three days but did not find him." 
2Kings2:18 So they returned to him while he was staying at Jericho; and he said to them, “Did I not say to you, ‘Do not go’?”" 
2Kings2:19 Then the men of the city said to Elisha, “Behold now, the habitat of this city is pleasant, as my lord sees; but the water is bad and the land is unfruitful.”" 
2Kings2:20 And he said, “Bring me a new jar, and put salt in it.” So they brought it to him." 
2Kings2:21 And he went out to the spring of water and threw salt in it and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘I have purified these waters; there shall not be from there death or barrenness any longer.’”" 
2Kings2:22 So the waters have been purified to this day, according to the word of Elisha which he spoke." 
2Kings2:23 Then he went up from there to Bethel; and as he was going up by the way, young boys came out from the city and mocked him and said to him, “Go up, you baldhead; go up, you baldhead!”" 
2Kings2:24 Then he looked behind him and saw them. And he cursed them in the name of Yahweh. Then two female bears came out of the woods and tore up forty-two lads of their number. 
2Kings2:25 And he went from there to Mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria." 
2Kings3:1 Now Jehoram the son of Ahab became king over Israel at Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned twelve years." 
2Kings3:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, though not like his father and his mother; and he took away the sacred pillar of Baal which his father had made." 
2Kings3:3 Nevertheless, he clung to the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin; he did not turn away from them." 
2Kings3:4 Now Mesha king of Moab was a sheep breeder and used to pay the king of Israel 100,000 lambs and the wool of 100,000 rams." 
2Kings3:5 But it happened that when Ahab died, the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel." 
2Kings3:6 And King Jehoram went out of Samaria at that time and mustered all Israel. 
2Kings3:7 Then he went and sent word to Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, saying, “The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you go with me to fight against Moab?” And he said, “I will go up; I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.”" 
2Kings3:8 And he said, “Which way shall we go up?” And he answered, “The way of the wilderness of Edom.”" 
2Kings3:9 So the king of Israel went with the king of Judah and the king of Edom; and they went around on a seven days’ journey, and there was no water for the camp or for the cattle that followed them." 
2Kings3:10 Then the king of Israel said, “Alas! For Yahweh has called these three kings to give them into the hand of Moab.”" 
2Kings3:11 But Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not a prophet of Yahweh here, that we may inquire of Yahweh by him?” And one of the king of Israel’s servants answered and said, “Elisha the son of Shaphat is here, who used to pour water on the hands of Elijah.”" 
2Kings3:12 And Jehoshaphat said, “The word of Yahweh is with him.” So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him." 
2Kings3:13 Now Elisha said to the king of Israel, “What do I have to do with you? Go to the prophets of your father and to the prophets of your mother.” And the king of Israel said to him, “No, for Yahweh has called these three kings together to give them into the hand of Moab.”" 
2Kings3:14 And Elisha said, “As Yahweh of hosts lives, before whom I stand, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, I would not look at you nor see you." 
2Kings3:15 So now bring me a musician.” And it came about, when the musician played, that the hand of Yahweh came upon him." 
2Kings3:16 And he said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Make this valley full of trenches.’" 
2Kings3:17 For thus says Yahweh, ‘You shall not see wind nor shall you see rain; yet that valley shall be filled with water, so that you shall drink, both you and your livestock and your cattle." 
2Kings3:18 And this is but a light thing in the sight of Yahweh; He will also give the Moabites into your hand. 
2Kings3:19 Then you shall strike every fortified city and every choice city, and fell every good tree and stop all springs of water, and mar every good piece of land with stones.’”" 
2Kings3:20 Then it happened in the morning about the time of offering the sacrifice, that behold, water came by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water." 
2Kings3:21 Now all the Moabites heard that the kings had come up to fight against them. And they summoned all who were able to put on armor and older, and they stood on the border." 
2Kings3:22 Then they rose early in the morning, and the sun shone on the water, and the Moabites saw the water opposite them as red as blood." 
2Kings3:23 Then they said, “This is blood; the kings have surely fought together, and they have struck down one another. So now, Moab, to the spoil!”" 
2Kings3:24 So they came to the camp of Israel. And the Israelites arose and struck the Moabites. So they fled before them; and they went forward into the land, striking down the Moabites." 
2Kings3:25 Thus they tore down the cities; and each one threw a stone on every piece of good land and filled it. And they stopped all the springs of water and felled all the good trees, until in Kir-hareseth they let its stones remain; however, the slingers went about it and struck it." 
2Kings3:26 Then the king of Moab saw that the battle was too strong for him, so he took with him 700 men who drew swords, to break through to the king of Edom; but they could not." 
2Kings3:27 So he took his oldest son, who was to reign in his place, and offered him as a burnt offering on the wall. And there came great wrath against Israel, and they set out from him and returned to their own land." 
2Kings4:1 Now a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets cried out to Elisha, “Your servant my husband is dead, and you know that your servant feared Yahweh; and the creditor has come to take my two children to be his slaves.”" 
2Kings4:2 And Elisha said to her, “What shall I do for you? Tell me, what do you have in the house?” And she said, “Your servant-woman has nothing in the house except a jar of oil.”" 
2Kings4:3 Then he said, “Go, ask for vessels for yourself, from those outside, from all your neighbors, even empty vessels; do not get a few." 
2Kings4:4 And you shall go in and shut the door behind you and your sons, and pour out into all these vessels, and you shall set aside what is full.”" 
2Kings4:5 So she went from him and shut the door behind her and her sons; they were bringing the vessels to her and she poured. 
2Kings4:6 Now it happened that when the vessels were full, she said to her son, “Bring me another vessel.” And he said to her, “There is not one vessel more.” And the oil stopped." 
2Kings4:7 Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, “Go, sell the oil and pay your debt, and you and your sons can live on the rest.”" 
2Kings4:8 Now there came a day when Elisha passed over to Shunem, where there was a prominent woman, and she prevailed upon him to eat food. Now it happened, as often as he passed by, that he turned in there to eat food." 
2Kings4:9 And she said to her husband, “Behold now, I know that this is a holy man of God passing by us continually." 
2Kings4:10 Please, let us make a little walled upper chamber and let us set a bed for him there, and a table and a chair and a lampstand; and it will be, when he comes to us, that he can turn in there.”" 
2Kings4:11 Now it happened that one day he came there and turned in to the upper chamber, and there he lay down." 
2Kings4:12 Then he said to Gehazi his young man, “Call this Shunammite.” So he called her, and she stood before him." 
2Kings4:13 And he said to him, “Say now to her, ‘Behold, you have been careful for us with all this care; what can I do for you? Would you be spoken for to the king or to the commander of the army?’” And she answered, “I live among my own people.”" 
2Kings4:14 So he said, “What then is to be done for her?” And Gehazi answered, “Truly she has no son, and her husband is old.”" 
2Kings4:15 And he said, “Call her.” So he called her, and she stood in the doorway." 
2Kings4:16 Then he said, “At this season next year you will embrace a son.” And she said, “No, my lord, O man of God, do not lie to your servant-woman.”" 
2Kings4:17 Then the woman conceived and bore a son at that season the next year, as Elisha had said to her." 
2Kings4:18 Then the child was grown. And the day came that he went out to his father to the reapers. 
2Kings4:19 And he said to his father, “My head, my head.” And he said to his young man, “Carry him to his mother.”" 
2Kings4:20 Then he carried him and brought him to his mother, and he sat on her knees until noon, and then died." 
2Kings4:21 Then she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God and shut the door behind him and went out. 
2Kings4:22 And she called to her husband and said, “Please send me one of the young men and one of the donkeys, that I may run to the man of God and return.”" 
2Kings4:23 And he said, “Why will you go to him today? It is neither new moon nor sabbath.” And she said, “It is well.”" 
2Kings4:24 Then she saddled a donkey and said to her young man, “Drive and go; do not hold back the pace of the ride for me unless I tell you.”" 
2Kings4:25 So she went and came to the man of God to Mount Carmel. Now it happened that when the man of God saw her at a distance, he said to Gehazi his young man, “Behold, there is the Shunammite." 
2Kings4:26 Please run now to meet her and say to her, ‘Is it well with you? Is it well with your husband? Is it well with the child?’” And she answered, “It is well.”" 
2Kings4:27 Then she came to the man of God to the hill and took hold of his feet. And Gehazi came near to push her away; but the man of God said, “Let her alone, for her soul is bitter within her; and Yahweh has hidden it from me and has not told me.”" 
2Kings4:28 Then she said, “Did I ask for a son from my lord? Did I not say, ‘Do not deceive me’?”" 
2Kings4:29 Then he said to Gehazi, “Gird up your loins and take my staff in your hand, and go; if you meet anyone, do not greet him, and if anyone greets you, do not answer him; and lay my staff on the boy’s face.”" 
2Kings4:30 But the mother of the boy said, “As Yahweh lives and as your soul lives, I will not forsake you.” And he arose and followed her." 
2Kings4:31 Now Gehazi passed on before them and laid the staff on the boy’s face, but there was no sound or response. So he returned to meet him and told him, saying, “The boy has not awakened.”" 
2Kings4:32 Then Elisha came into the house, and behold, the boy was dead and laid on his bed." 
2Kings4:33 So he entered and shut the door behind them both and prayed to Yahweh. 
2Kings4:34 And he went up and lay on the child and put his mouth on his mouth and his eyes on his eyes and his hands on his hands, and he stretched himself on him; and the flesh of the child became warm." 
2Kings4:35 Then he returned and walked in the house once back and forth, and went up and stretched himself on him; and the boy sneezed seven times and the boy opened his eyes." 
2Kings4:36 Then he called Gehazi and said, “Call this Shunammite.” So he called her. Then she came in to him, and he said, “Take up your son.”" 
2Kings4:37 Then she came in and fell at his feet and bowed herself to the ground, and she took up her son and went out." 
2Kings4:38 Now Elisha returned to Gilgal, and there was a famine in the land. As the sons of the prophets were sitting before him, he said to his young man, “Put on the large pot and boil stew for the sons of the prophets.”" 
2Kings4:39 Then one went out into the field to gather herbs and found a wild vine and gathered from it wild gourds filling his cloak and came and sliced them into the pot of stew, for they did not know what they were." 
2Kings4:40 So they poured it out for the men to eat. And it happened that as they were eating of the stew, they cried out and said, “O man of God, there is death in the pot.” And they were unable to eat." 
2Kings4:41 But he said, “Now bring flour.” He threw it into the pot and said, “Pour it out for the people that they may eat.” Then there was no harm in the pot." 
2Kings4:42 Now a man came from Baal-shalishah, and brought the man of God bread of the first fruits, twenty loaves of barley and fresh ears of grain in his sack. And he said, “Give them to the people that they may eat.”" 
2Kings4:43 And his attendant said, “What, will I give this before one hundred men?” But he said, “Give them to the people that they may eat, for thus says Yahweh, ‘They shall eat and have some left over.’”" 
2Kings4:44 So he gave it before them, and they ate and had some left over, according to the word of Yahweh." 
2Kings5:1 Now Naaman, commander of the army of the king of Aram, was a great man with his master, and highly respected, because by him Yahweh had given salvation to Aram. The man was also a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper." 
2Kings5:2 Now the Arameans had gone out in marauding bands and had taken captive a little girl from the land of Israel; and she waited on Naaman’s wife. 
2Kings5:3 And she said to her mistress, “I wish that my master were before the prophet who is in Samaria! Then he would cure him of his leprosy.”" 
2Kings5:4 Then Naaman went in and told his master, saying, “Thus and thus spoke the girl who is from the land of Israel.”" 
2Kings5:5 Then the king of Aram said, “Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel.” So he went and took in his hand ten talents of silver and six thousand shekels of gold and ten changes of clothes." 
2Kings5:6 And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, “So now as this letter comes to you, behold, I have sent Naaman my servant to you, that you may cure him of his leprosy.”" 
2Kings5:7 Now it happened that when the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, “Am I God, to put to death and to make alive, that this man is sending word to me to cure a man of his leprosy? But know now, and see how he is seeking a quarrel against me.”" 
2Kings5:8 Now it happened when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, that he sent word to the king, saying, “Why have you torn your clothes? Now let him come to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.”" 
2Kings5:9 So Naaman came with his horses and his chariots and stood at the doorway of the house of Elisha. 
2Kings5:10 And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, “Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh will be restored to you and you will be clean.”" 
2Kings5:11 But Naaman was furious and went away and said, “Behold, I said to myself, ‘He will surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of Yahweh his God, and wave his hand over the place and cure the leper.’" 
2Kings5:12 Are not Abanah and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Could I not wash in them and be clean?” So he turned and went away in wrath." 
2Kings5:13 Then his servants approached and spoke to him and said, “My father, had the prophet spoken with you to do some great thing, would you not have done it? How much more then, when he says to you, ‘Wash, and be clean’?”" 
2Kings5:14 So he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, according to the word of the man of God; and his flesh was restored like the flesh of a young boy and he was clean." 
2Kings5:15 Then he returned to the man of God with all his camp, and came and stood before him, and said, “Behold now, I know that there is no God in all the earth, but in Israel; so now please take a blessing from your servant.”" 
2Kings5:16 But he said, “As Yahweh lives, before whom I stand, I will take nothing.” And he urged him to take it, but he refused." 
2Kings5:17 So Naaman said, “If not, please let your servant at least be given two mules’ load of earth; for your servant will no longer offer burnt offering nor will he sacrifice to other gods, but to Yahweh." 
2Kings5:18 In this matter may Yahweh pardon your servant: when my master goes into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leans on my hand and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, when I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, Yahweh pardon your servant in this matter.”" 
2Kings5:19 And he said to him, “Go in peace.” So he went from him some distance." 
2Kings5:20 Then Gehazi, the young man of Elisha the man of God, said to himself, “Behold, my master has spared this Naaman the Aramean, by not receiving from his hands what he brought. As Yahweh lives, I will run after him and take something from him.”" 
2Kings5:21 So Gehazi pursued Naaman. And Naaman saw one running after him, so he came down from the chariot to meet him and said, “Is all at peace?”" 
2Kings5:22 And he said, “All is at peace. My master has sent me, saying, ‘Behold, just now two young men of the sons of the prophets have come to me from the hill country of Ephraim. Please give them a talent of silver and two changes of clothes.’”" 
2Kings5:23 Then Naaman said, “Be pleased to take two talents.” And he urged him and bound two talents of silver in two bags with two changes of clothes and gave them to two of his young men; and they carried them before him." 
2Kings5:24 So he came to the hill, and he took them from their hand and deposited them in the house. Then he sent the men away, and they departed." 
2Kings5:25 But he came in and stood before his master. And Elisha said to him, “Where have you been, Gehazi?” And he said, “Your servant went nowhere.”" 
2Kings5:26 Then he said to him, “Did not my heart go with you, when the man turned from his chariot to meet you? Is it a time to receive money and to receive clothes and olive groves and vineyards and sheep and oxen and male and female slaves?" 
2Kings5:27 Thus the leprosy of Naaman shall cling to you and to your seed forever.” So he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow. 
2Kings6:1 And the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, “Behold now, the place before you where we are living is too limited for us." 
2Kings6:2 Please let us go to the Jordan and each of us take from there a beam, and let us make a place there for ourselves where we may live.” So he said, “Go.”" 
2Kings6:3 Then one said, “Please be willing to go with your servants.” And he answered, “I shall go.”" 
2Kings6:4 So he went with them; and they came to the Jordan and cut down trees. 
2Kings6:5 Now it happened that as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water; and he cried out and said, “Alas, my master! For it was borrowed.”" 
2Kings6:6 Then the man of God said, “Where did it fall?” And when he showed him the place, he cut off a stick and threw it in there and made the iron float." 
2Kings6:7 And he said, “Take it up for yourself.” So he sent forth his hand and took it." 
2Kings6:8 Now the king of Aram was warring against Israel; and he counseled with his servants saying, “In such and such a place shall be my camp.”" 
2Kings6:9 And the man of God sent word to the king of Israel saying, “Beware that you do not pass this place, for the Arameans are coming down there.”" 
2Kings6:10 And the king of Israel sent to the place about which the man of God had told him; thus he warned him, so that he guarded himself there, more than once or twice." 
2Kings6:11 Then the heart of the king of Aram was enraged over this thing; and he called his servants and said to them, “Will you not tell me which of us is for the king of Israel?”" 
2Kings6:12 And one of his servants said, “No, my lord, O king; but Elisha, the prophet who is in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words that you speak in your bedroom.”" 
2Kings6:13 So he said, “Go and see where he is, that I may send and take him.” And it was told to him, saying, “Behold, he is in Dothan.”" 
2Kings6:14 So he sent horses and chariots and a heavy military force there, and they came by night and surrounded the city." 
2Kings6:15 Then the attendant of the man of God arose early and went out, and behold, a military force with horses and chariots was all around the city. And his young man said to him, “Alas, my master! What shall we do?”" 
2Kings6:16 So he said, “Do not fear, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them.”" 
2Kings6:17 Then Elisha prayed and said, “O Yahweh, I pray, open his eyes that he may see.” And Yahweh opened the eyes of the young man and he saw; and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha." 
2Kings6:18 And they came down to him, and Elisha prayed to Yahweh and said, “Strike this people with blindness, I pray.” So He struck them with blindness according to the word of Elisha." 
2Kings6:19 Then Elisha said to them, “This is not the way, and this is not the city; walk after me and I will walk you over to the man whom you seek.” And he walked them over to Samaria." 
2Kings6:20 Now it happened that when they had come into Samaria, Elisha said, “O Yahweh, open the eyes of these men, that they may see.” So Yahweh opened their eyes and they saw; and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria." 
2Kings6:21 Then the king of Israel when he saw them, said to Elisha, “My father, shall I strike them down? Shall I strike them down?”" 
2Kings6:22 And he said, “You shall not strike them down. Would you strike down those you have taken captive with your sword and with your bow? Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink and walk back to their master.”" 
2Kings6:23 So he prepared a great feast for them; and when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. And the marauding bands of Arameans did not come again into the land of Israel." 
2Kings6:24 Now it happened afterwards, that Ben-hadad king of Aram gathered all his military camp and went up and besieged Samaria." 
2Kings6:25 Now there was a great famine in Samaria. And behold, they besieged it, until a donkey’s head was sold for eighty shekels of silver, and a fourth of a kab of dove’s dung for five shekels of silver." 
2Kings6:26 As the king of Israel was passing by on the wall, a woman cried out to him, saying, “Save, my lord, O king!”" 
2Kings6:27 He said, “If Yahweh does not save you, from where shall I save you? From the threshing floor, or from the wine press?”" 
2Kings6:28 And the king said to her, “What is the matter with you?” And she said, “This woman said to me, ‘Give your son that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow.’" 
2Kings6:29 So we boiled my son and ate him; and I said to her on the next day, ‘Give your son, that we may eat him’; but she has hidden her son.”" 
2Kings6:30 Now it happened that when the king heard the words of the woman, he tore his clothes—now he was passing by on the wall—and the people looked, and behold, he had sackcloth beneath on his body." 
2Kings6:31 Then he said, “May God do so to me and more also, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat remains on him today.”" 
2Kings6:32 Now Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him. And the king sent a man from his presence; but before the messenger came to him, he said to the elders, “Do you see how this son of a murderer has sent to take away my head? Look, when the messenger comes, shut the door and hold the door shut against him. Is not the sound of his master’s feet behind him?”" 
2Kings6:33 While he was still speaking with them, behold, the messenger came down to him and he said, “Behold, this evil is from Yahweh; why should I wait for Yahweh any longer?”" 
2Kings7:1 Then Elisha said, “Listen to the word of Yahweh; thus says Yahweh, ‘About this time tomorrow a seah of fine flour will be sold for a shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria.’”" 
2Kings7:2 And the royal officer on whose hand the king was leaning answered the man of God and said, “Behold, if Yahweh should make windows in heaven, could this thing be?” Then he said, “Behold, you will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat of it.”" 
2Kings7:3 Now there were four leprous men at the entrance of the gate; and they said to one another, “Why do we sit here until we die?" 
2Kings7:4 If we say, ‘We will enter the city,’ then the famine is in the city and we will die there; and if we sit here, we die also. So now come, and let us go over to the camp of the Arameans. If they spare us, we will live; and if they put us to death, we will die.”" 
2Kings7:5 So they arose at twilight to go to the camp of the Arameans. Then they came to the outskirts of the camp of the Arameans, but behold, there was no one there." 
2Kings7:6 Now the Lord had caused the camp of the Arameans to hear a sound of chariots and a sound of horses, even the sound of a great military force, so that they said to one another, “Behold, the king of Israel has hired against us the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians, to come upon us.”" 
2Kings7:7 Therefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and forsook their tents and their horses and their donkeys, even the camp just as it was, and fled for their life." 
2Kings7:8 So these lepers came to the outskirts of the camp and entered one tent and ate and drank. Then they carried from there silver and gold and clothes, and they went and hid them; and they returned and entered another tent and carried from there also and went and hid them." 
2Kings7:9 Then they said to one another, “We are not doing right. This day is a day of good news, but we are keeping silent; if we wait until morning light, punishment will overtake us. So now, come, let us go and tell the king’s household.”" 
2Kings7:10 So they came and called to the gatekeepers of the city, and they told them, saying, “We came to the camp of the Arameans, and behold, there was no one there, nor the voice of man, only the horses tied and the donkeys tied, and the tents just as they were.”" 
2Kings7:11 And the gatekeepers called and told it within the king’s household. 
2Kings7:12 Then the king arose in the night and said to his servants, “I will now tell you what the Arameans have done to us. They know that we are hungry; therefore they have gone from the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, ‘When they come out of the city, we will capture them alive and get into the city.’”" 
2Kings7:13 And one of his servants answered and said, “Please, let some men take five of the remaining horses, which remain in the city. Behold, they will be in any case like all the multitude of Israel who remain in it; behold, they will be in any case like all the multitude of Israel who have already come to an end, so let us send and see.”" 
2Kings7:14 They took therefore two chariots with horses, and the king sent after the camp of the Arameans, saying, “Go and see.”" 
2Kings7:15 Then they went after them to the Jordan, and behold, all the way was full of clothes and equipment which the Arameans had thrown away in their haste. Then the messengers returned and told the king." 
2Kings7:16 So the people went out and plundered the camp of the Arameans. Then a seah of fine flour was sold for a shekel and two seahs of barley for a shekel, according to the word of Yahweh." 
2Kings7:17 Now the king appointed the royal officer on whose hand he leaned to have charge of the gate; but the people trampled on him at the gate, and he died just as the man of God had spoken, who spoke when the king came down to him." 
2Kings7:18 So it happened just as the man of God had spoken to the king, saying, “Two seahs of barley for a shekel and a seah of fine flour for a shekel will be sold tomorrow about this time at the gate of Samaria.”" 
2Kings7:19 And the royal officer had answered the man of God and said, “Now behold, if Yahweh should make windows in heaven, could such a thing be?” And he had said, “Behold, you will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat of it.”" 
2Kings7:20 And so it happened to him, for the people trampled on him at the gate and he died." 
2Kings8:1 Now Elisha spoke to the woman whose son he had restored to life, saying, “Arise and go with your household, and sojourn wherever you can sojourn; for Yahweh has called for a famine, and it will even come on the land for seven years.”" 
2Kings8:2 So the woman arose and did according to the word of the man of God, and she went with her household and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years." 
2Kings8:3 Now it happened at the end of seven years, that the woman returned from the land of the Philistines; and she went out to cry out to the king for her house and for her field." 
2Kings8:4 Now the king was speaking with Gehazi, the young man of the man of God, saying, “Please recount to me all the great things that Elisha has done.”" 
2Kings8:5 Now it happened as he was recounting to the king how he had restored to life the one who was dead, that behold, the woman whose son he had restored to life was crying out to the king for her house and for her field. And Gehazi said, “My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life.”" 
2Kings8:6 Then the king asked the woman, and she recounted it to him. So the king appointed for her a certain officer, saying, “Restore all that was hers and all the produce of the field from the day that she left the land even until now.”" 
2Kings8:7 Then Elisha came to Damascus. Now Ben-hadad king of Aram was sick, and it was told to him, saying, “The man of God has come here.”" 
2Kings8:8 And the king said to Hazael, “Take a present in your hand and go to meet the man of God, and inquire of Yahweh by him, saying, ‘Will I be restored to life from this sickness?’”" 
2Kings8:9 So Hazael went to meet him and took a present in his hand, even every kind of good thing of Damascus, forty camels’ loads; and he came and stood before him and said, “Your son Ben-hadad king of Aram has sent me to you, saying, ‘Will I be restored to life from this sickness?’”" 
2Kings8:10 Then Elisha said to him, “Go, say to him, ‘You will surely be restored to life,’ but Yahweh has shown me that he will certainly die.”" 
2Kings8:11 And he fixed his gaze steadily on him until he was ashamed, and the man of God wept." 
2Kings8:12 Then Hazael said, “Why does my lord weep?” Then he said, “Because I know the evil that you will do to the sons of Israel: their fortifications you will set on fire, and their young men you will kill with the sword, and their infants you will dash in pieces, and their pregnant women you will rip up.”" 
2Kings8:13 Then Hazael said, “But what is your servant, who is but a dog, that he should do this great thing?” And Elisha answered, “Yahweh has shown me that you will be king over Aram.”" 
2Kings8:14 So he went from Elisha and came to his master. And he said to him, “What did Elisha say to you?” And he said, “He said to me that you would surely be restored to life.”" 
2Kings8:15 Now it happened that on the following day, he took the cover and dipped it in water and spread it on his face; so he died. And Hazael became king in his place." 
2Kings8:16 Now in the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel, Jehoshaphat being then the king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah became king." 
2Kings8:17 He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem." 
2Kings8:18 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, just as the house of Ahab had done, for the daughter of Ahab became his wife; and he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh." 
2Kings8:19 However, Yahweh was not willing to make Judah a ruin, for the sake of David His servant, since He had promised him to give a lamp to him through his sons always." 
2Kings8:20 In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah and made a king over themselves. 
2Kings8:21 Then Joram crossed over to Zair, and all his chariots with him. And he arose by night and struck the Edomites who were surrounding him and the commanders of the chariots; but his army fled to their tents." 
2Kings8:22 So Edom revolted against Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time. 
2Kings8:23 Now the rest of the acts of Joram and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings8:24 So Joram slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David; and Ahaziah his son became king in his place. 
2Kings8:25 In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah became king." 
2Kings8:26 Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Athaliah the granddaughter of Omri king of Israel." 
2Kings8:27 He also walked in the way of the house of Ahab and did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, like the house of Ahab had done, because he was a son-in-law of the house of Ahab." 
2Kings8:28 Then he went with Joram the son of Ahab to war with Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth-gilead, and the Arameans struck Joram." 
2Kings8:29 So King Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Arameans had caused by striking him at Ramah when he fought against Hazael king of Aram. Then Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel because he was sick. 
2Kings9:1 Now Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets and said to him, “Gird up your loins, and take this flask of oil in your hand and go to Ramoth-gilead." 
2Kings9:2 And you will come there and look there for Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi. And you will come in and bid him arise from among his brothers. And you will cause him to come in to an inner room. 
2Kings9:3 Then you will take the flask of oil and pour it on his head and say, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “I have anointed you king over Israel.”’ Then open the door and flee and do not wait.”" 
2Kings9:4 So the young man—the young man of the prophet—went to Ramoth-gilead. 
2Kings9:5 Then he came, and behold, the commanders of the military were sitting, and he said, “I have a word for you, O commander.” And Jehu said, “For which one of us?” And he said, “For you, O commander.”" 
2Kings9:6 And he arose and came into the house, and he poured the oil on his head and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘I have anointed you king over the people of Yahweh, even over Israel." 
2Kings9:7 And you shall strike the house of Ahab your master, that I may avenge the blood of My slaves the prophets, and the blood of all the slaves of Yahweh, at the hand of Jezebel." 
2Kings9:8 For the whole house of Ahab shall perish, and I will cut off from Ahab every male person both bond and free in Israel." 
2Kings9:9 And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah." 
2Kings9:10 And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the property of Jezreel, and none shall bury her.’” Then he opened the door and fled." 
2Kings9:11 Now Jehu came out to the servants of his master, and one said to him, “Is all well? Why did this mad fellow come to you?” And he said to them, “You know the man and his talk.”" 
2Kings9:12 And they said, “It is a lie, declare it to us now.” And he said, “Thus and thus he said to me, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “I have anointed you king over Israel.”’”" 
2Kings9:13 Then they hurried and each man took his garment and placed it under him on the bare steps, and blew the trumpet, saying, “Jehu is king!”" 
2Kings9:14 So Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. Now Joram with all Israel was guarding Ramoth-gilead against Hazael king of Aram," 
2Kings9:15 but King Joram had returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Arameans had struck him with when he fought with Hazael king of Aram. So Jehu said, “If this is your mind, then let no one escape or leave the city to go declare it in Jezreel.”" 
2Kings9:16 Then Jehu rode in a chariot and went to Jezreel, for Joram was lying there. Ahaziah king of Judah had come down to see Joram." 
2Kings9:17 Now the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel and he saw the company of Jehu as he came, and said, “I see a company.” And Joram said, “Take a horseman and send him to meet them and let him say, ‘Is it peace?’”" 
2Kings9:18 So a horseman went to meet him and said, “Thus says the king, ‘Is it peace?’” And Jehu said, “What have you to do with peace? Turn behind me.” And the watchman declared saying, “The messenger came to them, but he did not return.”" 
2Kings9:19 Then he sent out a second horseman. And he came to them and said, “Thus says the king, ‘Is it peace?’” And Jehu answered, “What have you to do with peace? Turn behind me.”" 
2Kings9:20 And the watchman declared saying, “He came up to them, but he did not return; and the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he drives in madness.”" 
2Kings9:21 Then Joram said, “Get ready.” And they made his chariot ready. Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out, each in his chariot, and they went out to meet Jehu and found him in the property of Naboth the Jezreelite." 
2Kings9:22 Now it happened that when Joram saw Jehu, he said, “Is it peace, Jehu?” And he answered, “What peace, so long as the harlotries of your mother Jezebel and her sorceries are so many?”" 
2Kings9:23 So Joram turned about and fled and said to Ahaziah, “There is deception, O Ahaziah!”" 
2Kings9:24 And Jehu drew his bow with his full strength and struck Joram between his arms; and the arrow went through his heart and he crouched down in his chariot. 
2Kings9:25 Then Jehu said to Bidkar his officer, “Lift him up and cast him into the property of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite, for I remember when you and I were riding together after Ahab his father, that Yahweh lifted up this oracle against him:" 
2Kings9:26 ‘Surely I have seen yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons,’ says Yahweh, ‘and I will repay you in this property,’ says Yahweh. So now, lift him up and cast him into the property, according to the word of Yahweh.”" 
2Kings9:27 And Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this and fled by the way of the garden house. And Jehu pursued him and said, “Strike him down too, in the chariot.” So they struck him down at the ascent of Gur, which is at Ibleam. But he fled to Megiddo and died there." 
2Kings9:28 Then his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem and buried him in his grave with his fathers in the city of David. 
2Kings9:29 Now in the eleventh year of Joram, the son of Ahab, Ahaziah became king over Judah." 
2Kings9:30 Then Jehu came to Jezreel, and Jezebel heard of it and she painted her eyes and adorned her head and looked out the window." 
2Kings9:31 As Jehu entered the gate, she said, “Is it peace, Zimri, your master’s killer?”" 
2Kings9:32 Then he lifted up his face to the window and said, “Who is on my side? Who?” And two or three officials looked down at him." 
2Kings9:33 And he said, “Throw her down.” So they threw her down, and some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall and on the horses, and he trampled her under foot." 
2Kings9:34 Then he came in and ate and drank. And he said, “Take care now of this cursed woman and bury her, for she is a king’s daughter.”" 
2Kings9:35 They went to bury her, but they found nothing more of her than the skull and the feet and the palms of her hands." 
2Kings9:36 Therefore they returned and declared it to him. And he said, “This is the word of Yahweh, which He spoke by His servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, ‘In the property of Jezreel the dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel;" 
2Kings9:37 and the corpse of Jezebel will be as dung on the face of the field in the property of Jezreel, so they cannot say, “This is Jezebel.”’”" 
2Kings10:1 Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters and sent them to Samaria, to the rulers of Jezreel, the elders, and to the guardians of the children of Ahab, saying," 
2Kings10:2 “So now, when this letter comes to you, since your master’s sons are with you, as well as the chariots and horses and a fortified city and the weapons," 
2Kings10:3 look for the best and fittest of your master’s sons, and set him on his father’s throne, and fight for your master’s house.”" 
2Kings10:4 But they feared exceedingly greatly and said, “Behold, the two kings did not stand before him; how then can we stand?”" 
2Kings10:5 And the one who was over the household, and he who was over the city, the elders, and the guardians of the children, sent word to Jehu, saying, “We are your servants, all that you say to us we will do, we will not make any man king; do what is good in your sight.”" 
2Kings10:6 Then he wrote a letter to them a second time saying, “If you are on my side, and you will listen to my voice, take the heads of the men, your master’s sons, and come to me about this time tomorrow at Jezreel.” Now the king’s sons, seventy persons, were with the great men of the city, who were rearing them." 
2Kings10:7 Now it happened that when the letter came to them, they took the king’s sons and slaughtered them, seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets, and sent them to him at Jezreel." 
2Kings10:8 Then the messenger came and told him, saying, “They have brought the heads of the king’s sons.” So he said, “Put them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until morning.”" 
2Kings10:9 Now it happened in the morning that he went out and stood and said to all the people, “You are righteous; behold, I conspired against my master and killed him, but who struck down all these?" 
2Kings10:10 Know then that nothing from the word of Yahweh, which Yahweh spoke concerning the house of Ahab, shall fall to the earth. Indeed, Yahweh has done what He spoke by the hand of His servant Elijah.”" 
2Kings10:11 So Jehu struck down all who remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his great men and his acquaintances and his priests, until there was no survivor remaining for him." 
2Kings10:12 Then he arose and came out and went to Samaria. On the way, while he was at Beth-eked of the shepherds," 
2Kings10:13 Jehu found the relatives of Ahaziah king of Judah and said, “Who are you?” And they said, “We are the relatives of Ahaziah; and we have come down to greet the sons of the king and the sons of the queen mother.”" 
2Kings10:14 Then he said, “Take them alive.” So they took them alive and slaughtered them at the pit of Beth-eked, forty-two men; and he left none of them." 
2Kings10:15 Then he went from there and found Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him; and he blessed him and said to him, “Is your heart right, as my heart is with your heart?” And Jehonadab answered, “It is.” Jehu said, “If it is, give me your hand.” And he gave him his hand, and he took him up to him into the chariot." 
2Kings10:16 Then he said, “Come with me and see my zeal for Yahweh.” So he made him ride in his chariot." 
2Kings10:17 And he came to Samaria and struck down all who were left to Ahab in Samaria, until he had destroyed him, according to the word of Yahweh which He spoke to Elijah." 
2Kings10:18 Then Jehu gathered all the people and said to them, “Ahab served Baal a little; Jehu will serve him much." 
2Kings10:19 So now, summon to me all the prophets of Baal, all his slaves and all his priests; let no one be missing, for I have a great sacrifice for Baal; whoever is missing shall not live.” But Jehu did it in cunning, so that he might cause the slaves of Baal to perish." 
2Kings10:20 And Jehu said, “Sanctify a solemn assembly for Baal.” And they summoned them." 
2Kings10:21 Then Jehu sent throughout Israel, and all the slaves of Baal came, so that there was not a man left who did not come. So they came into the house of Baal, and the house of Baal was filled from one end to the other." 
2Kings10:22 Then he said to the one who was in charge of the wardrobe, “Bring out garments for all the slaves of Baal.” So he brought out garments for them." 
2Kings10:23 And Jehu came into the house of Baal with Jehonadab the son of Rechab; and he said to the slaves of Baal, “Search and see lest there be here with you any of the slaves of Yahweh, but only the slaves of Baal.”" 
2Kings10:24 Then they came in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings. Now Jehu had placed for himself eighty men outside, and he had said, “The one who permits any of the men whom I cause to come into your hands to escape, shall give up his life in exchange.”" 
2Kings10:25 Now it happened that as soon as he had finished offering the burnt offering, Jehu said to the guard and to the royal officers, “Come in, strike them down; let none come out.” And they struck them down with the edge of the sword; and the guard and the royal officers threw them out and went to the inner room of the house of Baal." 
2Kings10:26 And they brought out the sacred pillars of the house of Baal and burned them. 
2Kings10:27 They also broke down the sacred pillar of Baal and broke down the house of Baal and made it a latrine to this day. 
2Kings10:28 Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel. 
2Kings10:29 However, as for the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin, from these Jehu did not depart, even the golden calves that were at Bethel and that were at Dan." 
2Kings10:30 And Yahweh said to Jehu, “Because you have done well in doing what is right in My eyes, and have done to the house of Ahab according to all that was in My heart, your sons of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.”" 
2Kings10:31 But Jehu was not careful to walk in the law of Yahweh, the God of Israel, with all his heart; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam, which he made Israel sin." 
2Kings10:32 In those days Yahweh began to cut off portions from Israel; and Hazael struck them throughout the territory of Israel: 
2Kings10:33 from the Jordan to the east toward the sunrise, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites and the Reubenites and the Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, even Gilead and Bashan." 
2Kings10:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehu and all that he did and all his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings10:35 And Jehu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son became king in his place." 
2Kings10:36 Now the time which Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty-eight years. 
2Kings11:1 Now Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son had died. So she rose and caused all the royal seed to perish. 
2Kings11:2 But Jehosheba, the daughter of King Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Joash the son of Ahaziah and stole him from among the king’s sons who were being put to death, and put him and his nurse in the bedroom. So they hid him from Athaliah, and he was not put to death." 
2Kings11:3 So he was hidden away with her in the house of Yahweh six years, while Athaliah was reigning over the land." 
2Kings11:4 Now in the seventh year Jehoiada sent for and took the commanders of hundreds of the Carites and of the guard, and brought them to him in the house of Yahweh. Then he cut a covenant with them and had them swear in the house of Yahweh, and showed them the king’s son." 
2Kings11:5 And he commanded them, saying, “This is the thing that you shall do: one-third of you, who come in on the sabbath and keep watch over the king’s house" 
2Kings11:6 (one-third also shall be at the gate Sur, and one-third at the gate behind the guards), shall keep watch over the house for defense." 
2Kings11:7 And two parts of you, even all who go out on the sabbath, shall also keep watch over the house of Yahweh for the king." 
2Kings11:8 And you shall surround the king, each with his weapons in his hand; and whoever comes within the ranks shall be put to death. And be with the king when he goes out and when he comes in.”" 
2Kings11:9 So the commanders of hundreds did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded. And each one of them took his men who were to come in on the sabbath, with those who were to go out on the sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest." 
2Kings11:10 Then the priest gave to the commanders of hundreds the spears and small shields that had been King David’s, which were in the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings11:11 And the guards stood each with his weapons in his hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, by the altar and by the house, around the king." 
2Kings11:12 Then he brought the king’s son out and put the crown on him and gave him the testimony; and they made him king and anointed him, and they clapped their hands and said, “Long live the king!”" 
2Kings11:13 Then Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, and she came to the people in the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings11:14 And she looked, and behold, the king was standing by the pillar, according to the custom, with the commanders and the trumpeters beside the king; and all the people of the land were glad and blew trumpets. Then Athaliah tore her clothes and cried, “Treason! Treason!”" 
2Kings11:15 And Jehoiada the priest commanded the commanders of hundreds who were appointed over the military force and said to them, “Bring her out between the ranks, and whoever follows her put to death with the sword.” For the priest said, “Let her not be put to death in the house of Yahweh.”" 
2Kings11:16 So they laid hands on her, and she arrived at the horses’ entrance of the king’s house and was put to death there." 
2Kings11:17 Then Jehoiada cut a covenant between Yahweh and the king and the people, that they would be the people of Yahweh, also between the king and the people." 
2Kings11:18 And all the people of the land came to the house of Baal and tore it down; his altars and his images they broke in pieces thoroughly, and they killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And the priest appointed overseers over the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings11:19 And he took the commanders of hundreds and the Carites and the guards and all the people of the land; and they brought the king down from the house of Yahweh, and came by the way of the gate of the guards to the king’s house. And he sat on the throne of the kings." 
2Kings11:20 So all the people of the land were glad, and the city was quiet. For they had put Athaliah to death with the sword at the king’s house." 
2Kings11:21 Jehoash was seven years old when he became king. 
2Kings12:1 In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash became king, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Zibiah of Beersheba." 
2Kings12:2 And Jehoash did what was right in the sight of Yahweh all his days in which Jehoiada the priest instructed him. 
2Kings12:3 Only the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
2Kings12:4 Then Jehoash said to the priests, “All the money of the sacred things which is brought into the house of Yahweh, both the money for each numbered man—the money from each person’s assessment in the census—and all the money which any man’s heart prompts him to bring into the house of Yahweh," 
2Kings12:5 let the priests take it for themselves, each from his acquaintance; and they shall repair the damages of the house wherever any damage may be found.”" 
2Kings12:6 Now it happened that in the twenty-third year of King Jehoash the priests had not repaired the damages of the house. 
2Kings12:7 Then King Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and for the other priests and said to them, “Why do you not repair the damages of the house? So now, take no more money from your acquaintances, but give it over to pay for the damages of the house.”" 
2Kings12:8 So the priests agreed that they would take no more money from the people, nor repair the damages of the house." 
2Kings12:9 But Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in its lid and put it beside the altar, on the right side as one comes into the house of Yahweh; and the priests who kept watch over the threshold put in it all the money which was brought into the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings12:10 Now it happened that when they saw that there was much money in the chest, the king’s scribe and the high priest came up and tied it in bags and counted the money which was found in the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings12:11 And they gave the money, which was weighed out, into the hands of those who did the work, who had the oversight of the house of Yahweh; and they paid it out to the craftsmen of wood and the builders who worked on the house of Yahweh;" 
2Kings12:12 and to the masons and the hewers of stone, and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the damages to the house of Yahweh, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it." 
2Kings12:13 But there were not made for the house of Yahweh silver cups, snuffers, bowls, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of silver from the money which was brought into the house of Yahweh;" 
2Kings12:14 for they gave that to those who did the work, and with it they repaired the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings12:15 Moreover, they did not require an accounting from the men into whose hand they paid the money in order to pay those who did the work, for they were doing it faithfully." 
2Kings12:16 The money from the guilt offerings and the money from the sin offerings was not brought into the house of Yahweh; it was for the priests. 
2Kings12:17 Then Hazael king of Aram went up and fought against Gath and captured it, and Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem." 
2Kings12:18 And Jehoash king of Judah took all the holy things that Jehoshaphat and Jehoram and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah, had set apart as holy, and his own holy things and all the gold that was found among the treasuries of the house of Yahweh and of the king’s house, and sent them to Hazael king of Aram. Then he went away from Jerusalem." 
2Kings12:19 Now the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings12:20 And his servants arose and made a conspiracy and struck down Joash at the house of Millo as he was going down to Silla. 
2Kings12:21 Now Jozacar the son of Shimeath and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, struck him and he died; and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Amaziah his son became king in his place." 
2Kings13:1 In the twenty-third year of Joash the son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu became king over Israel at Samaria, and he reigned seventeen years." 
2Kings13:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh and followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel sin; he did not depart from them." 
2Kings13:3 So the anger of Yahweh burned against Israel, and He gave them continually into the hand of Hazael king of Aram, and into the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael." 
2Kings13:4 Then Jehoahaz entreated the face of Yahweh, and Yahweh listened to him; for He saw the oppression of Israel, how the king of Aram oppressed them." 
2Kings13:5 And Yahweh gave Israel a savior, so that they came out from under the hand of the Arameans; and the sons of Israel lived in their tents as formerly." 
2Kings13:6 Nevertheless they did not depart from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, with which he made Israel sin, but walked in them; and the Asherah also remained standing in Samaria." 
2Kings13:7 For he did not leave to Jehoahaz any people for the army except 50 horsemen and 10 chariots and 10,000 foot soldiers, for the king of Aram had caused them to perish and made them like the dust at threshing." 
2Kings13:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, and all that he did and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings13:9 And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria; and Joash his son became king in his place." 
2Kings13:10 In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz became king over Israel in Samaria and reigned sixteen years." 
2Kings13:11 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh; he did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel sin, but he walked in them." 
2Kings13:12 Now the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did and his might with which he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings13:13 So Joash slept with his fathers, and Jeroboam sat on his throne; and Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel." 
2Kings13:14 Now Elisha became sick with the illness of which he was to die. So Joash the king of Israel came down to him and wept over him and said, “My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and its horsemen!”" 
2Kings13:15 And Elisha said to him, “Take a bow and arrows.” So he took a bow and arrows." 
2Kings13:16 Then he said to the king of Israel, “Put your hand on the bow.” And he put his hand on it, then Elisha placed his hands on the king’s hands." 
2Kings13:17 And he said, “Open the window toward the east,” and he opened it. Then Elisha said, “Shoot!” And he shot. And he said, “Yahweh’s arrow of salvation, even the arrow of salvation over Aram; for you will strike the Arameans at Aphek until you have consumed them.”" 
2Kings13:18 Then he said, “Take the arrows,” and he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, “Strike the ground,” and he struck it three times and stood still." 
2Kings13:19 So the man of God was angry with him and said, “You should have struck five or six times, then you would have struck Aram until you would have consumed it. But now you shall strike Aram only three times.”" 
2Kings13:20 And Elisha died, and they buried him. Now the marauding bands of the Moabites would enter into the land in the spring of the year." 
2Kings13:21 Now it happened that they were burying a man, and behold, they saw a marauding band; and they cast the man into the grave of Elisha. And when the man touched the bones of Elisha he became alive and stood up on his feet." 
2Kings13:22 Now Hazael king of Aram had oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz. 
2Kings13:23 But Yahweh was gracious to them and had compassion on them and turned to them because of His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not bring them to ruin or cast them from His presence until now." 
2Kings13:24 Then Hazael king of Aram died, and Ben-hadad his son became king in his place." 
2Kings13:25 Then Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again from the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael the cities which he had taken in war from the hand of Jehoahaz his father. Three times Joash struck him and recovered the cities of Israel. 
2Kings14:1 In the second year of Joash son of Joahaz king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah became king." 
2Kings14:2 He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jehoaddin of Jerusalem." 
2Kings14:3 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, yet not like David his father; he did according to all that Joash his father had done." 
2Kings14:4 Only the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
2Kings14:5 Now it happened as soon as the kingdom was strong in his hand, that he struck down his servants who had struck down the king his father." 
2Kings14:6 But the sons of those who struck him down he did not put to death, according to what is written in the book of the Law of Moses, which Yahweh commanded, saying, “Fathers shall not be put to death for their sons, nor sons be put to death for their fathers; but each shall be put to death for his own sin.”" 
2Kings14:7 He struck down 10,000 of Edom in the Valley of Salt and seized Sela by war and named it Joktheel to this day." 
2Kings14:8 Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, “Come, let us face each other.”" 
2Kings14:9 And Jehoash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, “The thorn bush which was in Lebanon sent to the cedar which was in Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son as a wife.’ But a beast of the field that was in Lebanon passed by and trampled the thorn bush." 
2Kings14:10 You have indeed struck down Edom, and your heart has lifted you up. Enjoy your glory and stay at home; for why should you provoke calamity so that you, even you, would fall, and Judah with you?”" 
2Kings14:11 But Amaziah would not listen. So Jehoash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah faced each other at Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah." 
2Kings14:12 And Judah was defeated by Israel, and they fled each to his tent." 
2Kings14:13 Then Jehoash king of Israel seized Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh, and came to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the Gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, 400 cubits." 
2Kings14:14 And he took all the gold and silver and all the utensils which were found in the house of Yahweh, and in the treasuries of the king’s house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria." 
2Kings14:15 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his might and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings14:16 So Jehoash slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel; and Jeroboam his son became king in his place. 
2Kings14:17 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel. 
2Kings14:18 Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings14:19 And they conspired against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish; but they sent after him to Lachish and put him to death there." 
2Kings14:20 Then they carried him on horses, and he was buried at Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David." 
2Kings14:21 And all the people of Judah took Azariah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the place of his father Amaziah." 
2Kings14:22 He built Elath and restored it to Judah after the king slept with his fathers. 
2Kings14:23 In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel became king in Samaria and reigned forty-one years." 
2Kings14:24 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh; he did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin." 
2Kings14:25 He restored the border of Israel from Lebo-hamath as far as the Sea of the Arabah, according to the word of Yahweh, the God of Israel, which He spoke through His servant Jonah the son of Amittai, the prophet, who was of Gath-hepher." 
2Kings14:25 He restored the border of Israel from Lebo-hamath as far as the Sea of the Arabah, according to the word of Yahweh, the God of Israel, which He spoke through His servant Jonah the son of Amittai, the prophet, who was of Gath-hepher." 
2Kings14:26 For Yahweh saw the affliction of Israel, which was very bitter; for there was neither bond nor free, nor was there any helper for Israel." 
2Kings14:27 But Yahweh did not say that He would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven, so He saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash." 
2Kings14:28 Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam and all that he did and his might, how he fought and how he restored Damascus and Hamath to Judah in Israel, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings14:29 And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, even with the kings of Israel, and Zechariah his son became king in his place." 
2Kings14:29 And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, even with the kings of Israel, and Zechariah his son became king in his place." 
2Kings15:1 In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah became king." 
2Kings15:2 He was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem." 
2Kings15:3 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his father Amaziah had done." 
2Kings15:4 Only the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
2Kings15:5 Then Yahweh smote the king, so that he was a leper to the day of his death. And he lived in a separate house, while Jotham the king’s son was over the house, judging the people of the land." 
2Kings15:6 Now the rest of the acts of Azariah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings15:7 And Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Jotham his son became king in his place." 
2Kings15:8 In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam became king over Israel in Samaria for six months." 
2Kings15:8 In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam became king over Israel in Samaria for six months." 
2Kings15:9 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, as his fathers had done; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin." 
2Kings15:10 Then Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him and struck him before the people and put him to death and became king in his place. 
2Kings15:11 Now the rest of the acts of Zechariah, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
2Kings15:11 Now the rest of the acts of Zechariah, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
2Kings15:12 This is the word of Yahweh which He spoke to Jehu, saying, “Your sons to the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.” And so it was." 
2Kings15:13 Shallum son of Jabesh became king in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, and he reigned one month in Samaria." 
2Kings15:14 Then Menahem son of Gadi went up from Tirzah and came to Samaria, and struck Shallum son of Jabesh in Samaria, and put him to death and became king in his place." 
2Kings15:15 Now the rest of the acts of Shallum and his conspiracy which he made, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
2Kings15:16 Then Menahem struck Tiphsah and all who were in it and its borders from Tirzah, because they did not open to him; therefore he struck it and ripped up all its pregnant women." 
2Kings15:17 In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem son of Gadi became king over Israel and reigned ten years in Samaria." 
2Kings15:18 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh; he did not depart all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin." 
2Kings15:19 Pul, king of Assyria, came against the land, and Menahem gave Pul one thousand talents of silver so that his hand might be with him to strengthen the kingdom in his hand." 
2Kings15:20 Then Menahem exacted the money from Israel, even from all the mighty men of valor, from each man fifty shekels of silver to pay the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria returned and did not stay there in the land." 
2Kings15:21 Now the rest of the acts of Menahem and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings15:22 And Menahem slept with his fathers, and Pekahiah his son became king in his place." 
2Kings15:23 In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah son of Menahem became king over Israel in Samaria and reigned two years." 
2Kings15:24 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin." 
2Kings15:25 Then Pekah son of Remaliah, his officer, conspired against him and struck him in Samaria, in the castle of the king’s house with Argob and Arieh; and with him were fifty men of the Gileadites, and he put him to death and became king in his place." 
2Kings15:26 Now the rest of the acts of Pekahiah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
2Kings15:27 In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah son of Remaliah became king over Israel in Samaria and reigned twenty years." 
2Kings15:28 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin." 
2Kings15:29 In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria came and took Ijon and Abel-beth-maacah and Janoah and Kedesh and Hazor and Gilead and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali; and he took them away into exile to Assyria." 
2Kings15:30 And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah and struck him and put him to death and became king in his place, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah." 
2Kings15:31 Now the rest of the acts of Pekah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
2Kings15:32 In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah became king." 
2Kings15:33 He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jerusha the daughter of Zadok." 
2Kings15:34 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh; he did according to all that his father Uzziah had done. 
2Kings15:35 Only the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. He built the upper gate of the house of Yahweh. 
2Kings15:36 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings15:37 In those days Yahweh began to send Rezin king of Aram and Pekah the son of Remaliah against Judah. 
2Kings15:38 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and he was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; and Ahaz his son became king in his place." 
2Kings16:1 In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, Ahaz the son of Jotham, king of Judah, became king." 
2Kings16:2 Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem; and he did not do what was right in the sight of Yahweh his God, as David his father had done." 
2Kings16:3 But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and even made his son pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh had dispossessed from before the sons of Israel." 
2Kings16:4 He also sacrificed and burned incense on the high places and on the hills and under every green tree. 
2Kings16:5 Then Rezin king of Aram and Pekah son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to wage war; and they besieged Ahaz, but could not overcome him." 
2Kings16:6 At that time Rezin king of Aram restored Elath for Aram and cleared the Judeans out of Elath entirely; and the Arameans came to Elath and have lived there to this day. 
2Kings16:7 So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, saying, “I am your servant and your son; come up and save me from the hand of the king of Aram and from the hand of the king of Israel, who are rising up against me.”" 
2Kings16:8 Ahaz also took the silver and gold that was found in the house of Yahweh and in the treasuries of the king’s house, and sent a gift to the king of Assyria." 
2Kings16:9 So the king of Assyria listened to him; and the king of Assyria went up against Damascus and seized it and took the people of it away into exile to Kir, and put Rezin to death." 
2Kings16:10 Now King Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria and saw the altar which was at Damascus; and King Ahaz sent to Urijah the priest the likeness of the altar and its pattern, according to all its workmanship." 
2Kings16:11 So Urijah the priest built an altar; according to all that King Ahaz had sent from Damascus, thus Urijah the priest made it, before the coming of King Ahaz from Damascus." 
2Kings16:12 So the king came from Damascus, and the king saw the altar; then the king drew near the altar and made offerings on it," 
2Kings16:13 and offered his burnt offering and his meal offering up in smoke, and poured his drink offering and splashed the blood of his peace offerings on the altar." 
2Kings16:14 Now as for the bronze altar, which was before Yahweh, he drew it away from the front of the house, from between his altar and the house of Yahweh, and he put it on the north side of his altar." 
2Kings16:15 Then King Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, “Upon the great altar offer up in smoke the morning burnt offering and the evening grain offering and the king’s burnt offering and his grain offering, with the burnt offering of all the people of the land and their grain offering and their drink offerings; and splash on it all the blood of the burnt offering and all the blood of the sacrifice. But the bronze altar shall be for me to inquire by.”" 
2Kings16:16 So Urijah the priest did according to all that King Ahaz commanded. 
2Kings16:17 Then King Ahaz cut off the borders of the stands and removed the laver from them; he also took down the sea from the bronze oxen which were under it and put it on a pavement of stone. 
2Kings16:18 And the covered way for the sabbath which they had built in the house, and the outer entry of the king, he removed from the house of Yahweh because of the king of Assyria." 
2Kings16:19 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaz which he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings16:20 So Ahaz slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David; and Hezekiah his son became king in his place. 
2Kings17:1 In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah, Hoshea the son of Elah became king over Israel in Samaria and reigned nine years." 
2Kings17:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, only not as the kings of Israel who were before him." 
2Kings17:3 Shalmaneser king of Assyria went up against him, and Hoshea became his servant and paid him tribute." 
2Kings17:4 But the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea, who had sent messengers to So king of Egypt and had offered no tribute to the king of Assyria, as he had done year by year; therefore the king of Assyria shut him up and bound him in prison." 
2Kings17:5 Then the king of Assyria went up against the whole land and he went up to Samaria and besieged it three years. 
2Kings17:6 In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria captured Samaria and took Israel away into exile to Assyria, and settled them in Halah and Habor, on the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes." 
2Kings17:7 Now this happened because the sons of Israel had sinned against Yahweh their God—who had brought them up from the land of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt—and they had feared other gods" 
2Kings17:8 and walked in the statutes of the nations whom Yahweh had dispossessed from before the sons of Israel, and in the statutes of the kings of Israel which they had made." 
2Kings17:9 And the sons of Israel did things secretly which were not right against Yahweh their God. Moreover, they built for themselves high places in all their cities, from watchtower to fortified city." 
2Kings17:10 And they set for themselves sacred pillars and Asherim on every high hill and under every green tree," 
2Kings17:11 and there they burned incense on all the high places as the nations did which Yahweh had taken away into exile before them; and they did evil things provoking Yahweh to anger. 
2Kings17:12 And they served idols, concerning which Yahweh had said to them, “You shall not do this thing.”" 
2Kings17:13 Yet Yahweh warned Israel and Judah by the hand of all His prophets and every seer, saying, “Turn from your evil ways and keep My commandments, My statutes according to all the law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by the hand of My slaves the prophets.”" 
2Kings17:14 However, they did not listen, but stiffened their neck like their fathers, who did not believe in Yahweh their God." 
2Kings17:15 They also rejected His statutes and His covenant which He cut with their fathers and His warnings with which He warned them. And they followed vanity and became vain, and went after the nations which surrounded them, concerning which Yahweh had commanded them not to do like them." 
2Kings17:16 And they forsook all the commandments of Yahweh their God and made for themselves molten images, even two calves, and made an Asherah and worshiped all the host of heaven and served Baal." 
2Kings17:17 Then they made their sons and their daughters pass through the fire, and practiced divination and omens, and sold themselves to do what is evil in the sight of Yahweh, provoking Him to anger." 
2Kings17:18 So Yahweh was very angry with Israel and caused them to depart from His presence; none was left except the tribe of Judah alone. 
2Kings17:19 Also Judah did not keep the commandments of Yahweh their God, but walked in the statutes which Israel had made." 
2Kings17:20 So Yahweh rejected all the seed of Israel and afflicted them and gave them into the hand of plunderers, until He had cast them from His presence." 
2Kings17:21 When He had torn Israel from the house of David, they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king. Then Jeroboam drove Israel away from following Yahweh and made them sin a great sin." 
2Kings17:22 And the sons of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam which he did; they did not depart from them 
2Kings17:23 until Yahweh caused Israel to depart from His presence, as He spoke through all His slaves the prophets. So Israel went into exile from their own land to Assyria until this day." 
2Kings17:24 And the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon and from Cuthah and from Avva and from Hamath and Sepharvaim, and settled them in the cities of Samaria in place of the sons of Israel. So they possessed Samaria and lived in its cities." 
2Kings17:25 Now it happened at the beginning of their settlement there, that they did not fear Yahweh; therefore Yahweh sent lions among them which were killing them." 
2Kings17:26 So they spoke to the king of Assyria, saying, “The nations whom you have taken away into exile and settled in the cities of Samaria do not know the custom of the god of the land; so he has sent lions among them, and behold, they are putting them to death because they do not know the custom of the god of the land.”" 
2Kings17:27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, “Take there one of the priests whom you took away into exile and let him go and live there; and let him instruct them the custom of the god of the land.”" 
2Kings17:28 So one of the priests whom they had taken away into exile from Samaria came and settled at Bethel, and instructed them how they should fear Yahweh." 
2Kings17:29 But each nation was still making gods of its own and put them in the houses of the high places which the people of Samaria had made, each nation in their cities in which they lived." 
2Kings17:30 And the men of Babylon made Succoth-benoth, the men of Cuth made Nergal, the men of Hamath made Ashima," 
2Kings17:31 and the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; and the Sepharvites burned their children in the fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of the Sepharvaim." 
2Kings17:32 They were also fearing Yahweh and appointed from among all of themselves priests of the high places, and they were acting for them in the houses of the high places." 
2Kings17:33 They were fearing Yahweh and serving their own gods according to the custom of the nations from among whom they had been taken away into exile. 
2Kings17:34 To this day they are acting according to the earlier customs: they are not fearing Yahweh; they are not acting according to their statutes or their judgments or the law, or the commandment which Yahweh commanded the sons of Jacob, whom He named Israel;" 
2Kings17:35 with whom Yahweh cut a covenant and commanded them, saying, “You shall not fear other gods, nor worship them nor serve them nor sacrifice to them." 
2Kings17:36 But Yahweh, who brought you up from the land of Egypt with great power and with an outstretched arm, Him you shall fear, and to Him you shall worship, and to Him you shall sacrifice." 
2Kings17:37 And the statutes and the judgments and the law and the commandment which He wrote for you, you shall be careful to do forever; and you shall not fear other gods." 
2Kings17:38 And the covenant that I have cut with you, you shall not forget, nor shall you fear other gods." 
2Kings17:39 But Yahweh your God you shall fear; and He will deliver you from the hand of all your enemies.” 
2Kings17:40 However, they did not listen, but they were acting according to their earlier custom." 
2Kings17:41 So while these nations were fearing Yahweh, they also were serving their graven images; their children likewise and their grandchildren, as their fathers acted, so they are acting this way to this day." 
2Kings18:1 Now it happened in the third year of Hoshea, the son of Elah king of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah became king." 
2Kings18:2 He was twenty-five years old when he became king; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Abi, the daughter of Zechariah." 
2Kings18:2 He was twenty-five years old when he became king; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Abi, the daughter of Zechariah." 
2Kings18:3 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that David his father had done." 
2Kings18:4 He took away the high places and shattered the sacred pillars and cut down the Asherah. And he broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had made, for until those days the sons of Israel were burning incense to it; and it was called Nehushtan." 
2Kings18:5 He trusted in Yahweh, the God of Israel; so that after him there was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor among those who were before him." 
2Kings18:6 So he clung to Yahweh; he did not turn away from following Him, but kept His commandments, which Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
2Kings18:7 And Yahweh was with him; wherever he went he prospered. And he rebelled against the king of Assyria and did not serve him. 
2Kings18:8 He struck the Philistines as far as Gaza and its territory, from watchtower to fortified city." 
2Kings18:9 Now in the fourth year of King Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria and besieged it." 
2Kings18:10 And at the end of three years they captured it; in the sixth year of Hezekiah, which was the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was captured." 
2Kings18:11 Then the king of Assyria took Israel away into exile to Assyria, and put them in Halah and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes," 
2Kings18:12 because they did not listen to the voice of Yahweh their God, but trespassed against His covenant, even all that Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded; they would neither listen nor do it." 
2Kings18:13 Now in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and seized them." 
2Kings18:14 Then Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria at Lachish, saying, “I have done wrong. Turn away from me; whatever penalty you give to me I will bear.” So the king of Assyria set a penalty on Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold." 
2Kings18:15 Thus Hezekiah gave him all the silver which was found in the house of Yahweh and in the treasuries of the king’s house. 
2Kings18:16 At that time Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of Yahweh and from the doorposts, which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria." 
2Kings18:17 Then the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rab-saris and Rabshakeh from Lachish to King Hezekiah with a heavy military force to Jerusalem. So they went up and came to Jerusalem. And when they went up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is on the highway of the fuller’s field." 
2Kings18:18 Then they called to the king, and Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebnah the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, came out to them." 
2Kings18:19 Then Rabshakeh said to them, “Say now to Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria, “What is this trust that you have?" 
2Kings18:20 You say (but they are only empty words), ‘I have counsel and might for the war.’ Now on whom do you trust, that you have rebelled against me?" 
2Kings18:21 Now behold, you trust in the staff of this crushed reed, even on Egypt; on which if a man leans, it will go into his hand and pierce it. So is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him." 
2Kings18:22 But if you say to me, ‘We trust in Yahweh our God,’ is it not He whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away, and has said to Judah and to Jerusalem, ‘You shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem’?" 
2Kings18:23 So now, come, make a bargain with my master the king of Assyria, and I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to give riders for them." 
2Kings18:24 How then can you turn away one official of the least of my master’s servants, and trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?" 
2Kings18:25 So now, have I come up without the approval of Yahweh against this place to make it a ruin? Yahweh said to me, ‘Go up against this land and make it a ruin.’”’”" 
2Kings18:26 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebnah and Joah, said to Rabshakeh, “Speak now to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it; and do not speak with us in Judean in the hearing of the people who are on the wall.”" 
2Kings18:27 But Rabshakeh said to them, “Has my master sent me only to your master and to you to speak these words, and not to the men who sit on the wall, doomed to eat their own dung and drink their own urine with you?”" 
2Kings18:28 Then Rabshakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in Judean, saying, “Hear the word of the great king, the king of Assyria." 
2Kings18:29 Thus says the king, ‘Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you from his hand;" 
2Kings18:30 and do not let Hezekiah make you trust in Yahweh, saying, “Yahweh will surely deliver us, and this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.”" 
2Kings18:31 Do not listen to Hezekiah, for thus says the king of Assyria, “Make your peace with me and come out to me, and eat each of his vine and each of his fig tree and drink each of the waters of his own cistern," 
2Kings18:32 until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive oil and honey, that you may live and not die.” But do not listen to Hezekiah when he misleads you, saying, “Yahweh will deliver us.”" 
2Kings18:33 Has any one of the gods of the nations delivered his land from the hand of the king of Assyria? 
2Kings18:34 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah? When have they delivered Samaria from my hand?" 
2Kings18:35 Who among all the gods of the lands have delivered their land from my hand, that Yahweh would deliver Jerusalem from my hand?’”" 
2Kings18:36 But the people were silent and answered him not a word, for the king’s commandment was, “Do not answer him.”" 
2Kings18:37 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn and told him the words of Rabshakeh." 
2Kings19:1 Now it happened that when King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth, and entered the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings19:2 Then he sent Eliakim who was over the household with Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz." 
2Kings19:2 Then he sent Eliakim who was over the household with Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz." 
2Kings19:3 And they said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, ‘This day is a day of distress, reproof, and rejection; for children have come to the point of breaking forth, but there is no strength to give birth." 
2Kings19:4 Perhaps Yahweh your God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove the words which Yahweh your God has heard. Therefore, lift up a prayer for the remnant that is left.’”" 
2Kings19:5 So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah. 
2Kings19:5 So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah. 
2Kings19:6 And Isaiah said to them, “Thus you shall say to your master, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which the young men of the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me." 
2Kings19:6 And Isaiah said to them, “Thus you shall say to your master, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which the young men of the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me." 
2Kings19:7 Behold, I will put a spirit in him so that he will hear a report and return to his own land. And I will make him fall by the sword in his own land.”’”" 
2Kings19:8 Then Rabshakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, for he had heard that the king had set out from Lachish." 
2Kings19:9 Then he heard them say concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, “Behold, he has come out to fight against you.” So he sent messengers again to Hezekiah saying," 
2Kings19:10 “Thus you shall say to Hezekiah king of Judah, ‘Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, “Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.”" 
2Kings19:11 Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the lands, devoting them to destruction. So will you be delivered?" 
2Kings19:12 Did the gods of those nations which my fathers brought to ruin deliver them, even Gozan and Haran and Rezeph and the sons of Eden who were in Telassar?" 
2Kings19:13 Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, and of Hena and Ivvah?’”" 
2Kings19:14 Then Hezekiah took the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it, and he went up to the house of Yahweh and spread it out before Yahweh." 
2Kings19:15 And Hezekiah prayed before Yahweh and said, “O Yahweh, the God of Israel, who is enthroned above the cherubim, You are the God, You alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth." 
2Kings19:16 Incline Your ear, O Yahweh, and hear; open Your eyes, O Yahweh, and see; and listen to the words of Sennacherib, who sent them to reproach the living God." 
2Kings19:17 Truly, O Yahweh, the kings of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands" 
2Kings19:18 and have put their gods into the fire, for they were not gods but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone. So they have destroyed them." 
2Kings19:19 But now, O Yahweh our God, I pray, save us from his hand that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that You alone, O Yahweh, are God.”" 
2Kings19:20 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent word to Hezekiah saying, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Because you have prayed to Me about Sennacherib king of Assyria, I have heard you.’" 
2Kings19:20 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent word to Hezekiah saying, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Because you have prayed to Me about Sennacherib king of Assyria, I have heard you.’" 
2Kings19:21 This is the word that Yahweh has spoken against him: ‘She has despised you and mocked you, The virgin daughter of Zion; She has shaken her head behind you, The daughter of Jerusalem!" 
2Kings19:22 Whom have you reproached and blasphemed? And against whom have you heightened your voice, And haughtily lifted up your eyes? Against the Holy One of Israel!" 
2Kings19:23 Through your messengers you have reproached the Lord, And you have said, “With my many chariots I came up to the heights of the mountains, To the remotest parts of Lebanon; And I cut down its tall cedars and its choice cypresses. And I entered its farthest lodging place, its thickest forest." 
2Kings19:24 I dug wells and drank foreign waters, And with the sole of my feet I dried up All the rivers of Egypt.”" 
2Kings19:25 ‘Have you not heard? Long ago I did it; From days of old I formed it. Now I have brought it to pass, That you should devastate fortified cities into ruinous heaps." 
2Kings19:26 So their inhabitants were short of power, They were dismayed and put to shame; They were as the plant of the field and as the green herb, As grass on the rooftops is scorched before it rises." 
2Kings19:27 But I know your sitting down, And your going out and your coming in, And your raging against Me." 
2Kings19:28 Because of your raging against Me, And because your presumptuousness has come up to My ears, Therefore I will put My hook in your nose, And My bridle in your lips, And I will turn you back by the way which you came." 
2Kings19:29 ‘Then this shall be the sign for you: you will eat this year what grows of its own accord, in the second year what springs from the same, and in the third year sow, reap, plant vineyards, and eat their fruit." 
2Kings19:30 And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah will again take root downward and bear fruit upward. 
2Kings19:31 For out of Jerusalem will go forth a remnant, and out of Mount Zion survivors. The zeal of Yahweh will do this." 
2Kings19:32 ‘Therefore thus says Yahweh concerning the king of Assyria, “He will not come to this city or shoot an arrow there; and he will not come before it with a shield or throw up a siege ramp against it." 
2Kings19:33 By the way that he came, by the same he will return, and he shall not come to this city,”’ declares Yahweh." 
2Kings19:34 ‘Indeed I will defend this city to save it for My own sake and for My servant David’s sake.’” 
2Kings19:35 Now it happened that night, that the angel of Yahweh went out and struck 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians. And the men arose early in the morning, and behold, all of them were dead bodies." 
2Kings19:36 So Sennacherib king of Assyria set out and went away and returned home and lived at Nineveh. 
2Kings19:37 Now it happened that as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer struck him down with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son became king in his place." 
2Kings20:1 In those days Hezekiah became ill to the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live.’”" 
2Kings20:1 In those days Hezekiah became ill to the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live.’”" 
2Kings20:2 Then he turned his face to the wall and prayed to Yahweh, saying," 
2Kings20:3 “Remember now, O Yahweh, I beseech You, how I have walked before You in truth and with a whole heart and have done what is good in Your sight.” And Hezekiah wept greatly." 
2Kings20:4 Now it happened that Isaiah had not gone out of the middle court, and the word of Yahweh came to him, saying," 
2Kings20:4 Now it happened that Isaiah had not gone out of the middle court, and the word of Yahweh came to him, saying," 
2Kings20:5 “Return and say to Hezekiah the ruler of My people, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of your father David, “I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears; behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings20:6 And I will add fifteen years to your life, and I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will defend this city for My own sake and for My servant David’s sake.”’”" 
2Kings20:7 Then Isaiah said, “Take a cake of figs.” And they took and laid it on the boil, and he was restored to life." 
2Kings20:7 Then Isaiah said, “Take a cake of figs.” And they took and laid it on the boil, and he was restored to life." 
2Kings20:8 Now Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “What will be the sign that Yahweh will heal me, and that I shall go up to the house of Yahweh the third day?”" 
2Kings20:8 Now Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “What will be the sign that Yahweh will heal me, and that I shall go up to the house of Yahweh the third day?”" 
2Kings20:9 And Isaiah said, “This shall be the sign to you from Yahweh, that Yahweh will do the thing that He has spoken: shall the shadow go forward ten steps or turn back ten steps?”" 
2Kings20:9 And Isaiah said, “This shall be the sign to you from Yahweh, that Yahweh will do the thing that He has spoken: shall the shadow go forward ten steps or turn back ten steps?”" 
2Kings20:10 So Hezekiah answered, “It is easy for the shadow to stretch forward ten steps; no, but let the shadow turn backward ten steps.”" 
2Kings20:11 Isaiah the prophet cried to Yahweh, and He turned the shadow on the stairway back ten steps by which it had gone down on the stairway of Ahaz." 
2Kings20:11 Isaiah the prophet cried to Yahweh, and He turned the shadow on the stairway back ten steps by which it had gone down on the stairway of Ahaz." 
2Kings20:12 At that time Berodach-baladan a son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he heard that Hezekiah had been sick." 
2Kings20:13 And Hezekiah listened to them, and showed them all his treasure house, the silver and the gold and the spices and the good oil and the house of his armor and all that was found in his treasuries. There was nothing in his house nor in all his dominion that Hezekiah did not show them." 
2Kings20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said to him, “What did these men say, and from where have they come to you?” And Hezekiah said, “They have come from a far country, from Babylon.”" 
2Kings20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said to him, “What did these men say, and from where have they come to you?” And Hezekiah said, “They have come from a far country, from Babylon.”" 
2Kings20:15 And he said, “What have they seen in your house?” So Hezekiah said, “They have seen all that is in my house; there is nothing among my treasuries that I have not shown them.”" 
2Kings20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of Yahweh." 
2Kings20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of Yahweh." 
2Kings20:17 ‘Behold, the days are coming when all that is in your house, and all that your fathers have treasured up to this day will be carried to Babylon; nothing shall be left,’ says Yahweh." 
2Kings20:18 ‘And some of your sons who will issue from you, whom you will beget, will be taken away; and they will become officials in the palace of the king of Babylon.’”" 
2Kings20:19 Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word of Yahweh which you have spoken is good.” For he said, “Will it not be good, if there will be peace and truth in my days?”" 
2Kings20:19 Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word of Yahweh which you have spoken is good.” For he said, “Will it not be good, if there will be peace and truth in my days?”" 
2Kings20:20 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and all his might, and how he made the pool and the conduit and brought water into the city, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings20:21 So Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and Manasseh his son became king in his place." 
2Kings21:1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Hephzibah." 
2Kings21:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh dispossessed before the sons of Israel." 
2Kings21:3 Indeed, he rebuilt the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed; and he erected altars for Baal and made an Asherah, as Ahab king of Israel had done, and worshiped all the host of heaven and served them." 
2Kings21:4 And he built altars in the house of Yahweh, of which Yahweh had said, “In Jerusalem I will put My name.”" 
2Kings21:5 Indeed, he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings21:6 He even made his son pass through the fire, practiced soothsaying and interpreted omens, and dealt with mediums and spiritists. He did much that was evil in the sight of Yahweh provoking Him to anger." 
2Kings21:7 Then he put the graven image of Asherah, which he had made, in the house of which Yahweh had said to David and to Solomon his son, “In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel, I will put My name forever." 
2Kings21:8 And I will not make the foot of Israel wander anymore from the land which I gave their fathers, if only they will be careful to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the law that My servant Moses commanded them.”" 
2Kings21:9 But they did not listen, and Manasseh led them astray in order to do more evil than the nations whom Yahweh destroyed before the sons of Israel." 
2Kings21:10 Then Yahweh spoke by the hand of His slaves the prophets, saying," 
2Kings21:11 “Because Manasseh king of Judah has done these abominations—he has done evil more than all the Amorites did who were before him—and has also made Judah sin with his idols," 
2Kings21:12 therefore thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Behold, I am bringing such calamity on Jerusalem and Judah, that whoever hears of it, both his ears will tingle." 
2Kings21:13 And I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria and the level of the house of Ahab, and I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a dish—he wipes it and turns it upside down." 
2Kings21:14 And I will abandon the remnant of My inheritance and give them into the hand of their enemies, and they will become as plunder and spoil to all their enemies;" 
2Kings21:15 because they have done what is evil in My sight, and have been provoking Me to anger since the day their fathers came out of Egypt, even to this day.’”" 
2Kings21:16 Moreover, Manasseh shed very much innocent blood until he had filled Jerusalem from one end to another; besides his sin with which he made Judah sin, in doing what is evil in the sight of Yahweh." 
2Kings21:17 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh and all that he did and his sin which he sinned, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings21:18 And Manasseh slept with his fathers and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza. And Amon his son became king in his place." 
2Kings21:19 Amon was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Meshullemeth the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah." 
2Kings21:20 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, as Manasseh his father had done." 
2Kings21:21 And he walked in all the way that his father had walked and served the idols that his father had served and worshiped them. 
2Kings21:22 So he forsook Yahweh, the God of his fathers, and did not walk in the way of Yahweh." 
2Kings21:23 Then the servants of Amon conspired against him and put the king to death in his own house. 
2Kings21:24 Then the people of the land struck down all those who had conspired against King Amon, and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his place." 
2Kings21:25 Now the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings21:26 And he was buried in his grave in the garden of Uzza, and Josiah his son became king in his place." 
2Kings22:1 Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath." 
2Kings22:2 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh and walked in all the way of his father David and did not turn aside to the right or to the left. 
2Kings22:3 Now it happened in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, that the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam the scribe, to the house of Yahweh saying," 
2Kings22:4 “Go up to Hilkiah the high priest that he may count the money brought into the house of Yahweh which the doorkeepers have gathered from the people. 
2Kings22:5 And let them give it into the hand of those who do the work, who have the oversight of the house of Yahweh, and let them give it to those who do the work, who are in the house of Yahweh, to repair the damages of the house," 
2Kings22:6 to the craftsmen and the builders and the masons and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the house. 
2Kings22:7 Only no accounting shall be made with them for the money given into their hands, for they deal faithfully.”" 
2Kings22:8 Then Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, “I have found the book of the law in the house of Yahweh.” And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan and he read it." 
2Kings22:9 Then Shaphan the scribe came to the king and responded to the king with a word and said, “Your servants have poured out the money that was found in the house and have given it into the hand of those who do the work, who have the oversight of the house of Yahweh.”" 
2Kings22:10 Moreover, Shaphan the scribe told the king saying, “Hilkiah the priest has given me a book.” And Shaphan read it in the presence of the king." 
2Kings22:11 Now it happened that when the king heard the words of the book of the law, he tore his clothes." 
2Kings22:12 Then the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Achbor the son of Micaiah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king’s servant, saying," 
2Kings22:13 “Go, inquire of Yahweh for me and the people and all Judah, concerning the words of this book that has been found, for great is the wrath of Yahweh which is set aflame against us, because our fathers have not listened to the words of this book, to do according to all that is written concerning us.”" 
2Kings22:14 So Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asaiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter); and they spoke to her." 
2Kings22:15 And she said to them, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Say to the man who sent you to me," 
2Kings22:16 thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am bringing evil on this place and on its inhabitants, even all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read." 
2Kings22:17 Because they have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods that they might provoke Me to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore My wrath is set aflame against this place, and it shall not be quenched.”’" 
2Kings22:18 But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of Yahweh thus you shall say to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, “Regarding the words which you have heard," 
2Kings22:19 because your heart was soft and you humbled yourself before Yahweh when you heard what I spoke against this place and against its inhabitants that they should become an object of horror, and a curse, and you have torn your clothes and wept before Me, I truly have heard you,” declares Yahweh." 
2Kings22:20 “Therefore, behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be gathered to your grave in peace, so your eyes will not see all the evil which I will bring on this place.”’” So they brought back word to the king." 
2Kings23:1 Then the king sent, and they gathered to him all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem." 
2Kings23:2 And the king went up to the house of Yahweh and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests and the prophets and all the people, both small and great; and he read in their hearing all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings23:3 Then the king stood by the pillar and cut a covenant before Yahweh, to walk after Yahweh, and to keep His commandments and His testimonies and His statutes with all his heart and all his soul, to establish the words of this covenant that were written in this book. And all the people entered into the covenant." 
2Kings23:4 Then the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest and the priests of the second order and the doorkeepers, to bring out of the temple of Yahweh all the vessels that were made for Baal, for Asherah, and for all the host of heaven; and he burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron, and carried their ashes to Bethel." 
2Kings23:5 And he did away with the idolatrous priests whom the kings of Judah had appointed and who burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah and in the surrounding area of Jerusalem, as well as those who burned incense to Baal, to the sun and to the moon and to the constellations and to all the host of heaven." 
2Kings23:6 And he brought out the Asherah from the house of Yahweh outside Jerusalem to the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron, and ground it to dust, and threw its dust on the graves of the common people." 
2Kings23:7 He also tore down the houses of the male cult prostitutes which were in the house of Yahweh, where the women were weaving hangings for the Asherah." 
2Kings23:8 Then he brought all the priests from the cities of Judah and defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Beersheba; and he tore down the high places of the gates which were at the entrance of the gate of Joshua the ruler of the city, which were on one’s left at the city gate." 
2Kings23:8 Then he brought all the priests from the cities of Judah and defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Beersheba; and he tore down the high places of the gates which were at the entrance of the gate of Joshua the ruler of the city, which were on one’s left at the city gate." 
2Kings23:9 Nevertheless the priests of the high places did not go up to the altar of Yahweh in Jerusalem, but they ate unleavened bread among their brothers." 
2Kings23:10 He also defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, that no man might make his son or his daughter pass through the fire for Molech." 
2Kings23:11 And he did away with the horses which the kings of Judah had given to the sun, at the entrance of the house of Yahweh, by the chamber of Nathan-melech the official, which was in the precincts; and he burned the chariots of the sun with fire." 
2Kings23:12 Also, the altars which were on the roof, the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of Yahweh, the king tore down; and he crushed them there and threw their dust into the brook Kidron." 
2Kings23:13 And the high places which were before Jerusalem, which were on the right of the mount of destruction which Solomon the king of Israel had built for Ashtoreth the detestable idol of the Sidonians, and for Chemosh the detestable idol of Moab, and for Milcom the abomination of the sons of Ammon, the king defiled." 
2Kings23:14 And he broke in pieces the sacred pillars and cut down the Asherim and filled their places with human bones. 
2Kings23:15 Furthermore, the altar that was at Bethel and the high place which Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin, had made, even that altar and the high place he tore down. Then he demolished its stones, ground them to dust, and burned the Asherah." 
2Kings23:16 Then Josiah turned, and he saw the graves that were there on the mountain, and he sent and took the bones from the graves and burned them on the altar and defiled it according to the word of Yahweh which the man of God proclaimed, who proclaimed these things." 
2Kings23:17 Then he said, “What is this monument that I see?” And the men of the city told him, “It is the grave of the man of God who came from Judah and proclaimed these things which you have done against the altar of Bethel.”" 
2Kings23:18 And he said, “Let him alone; let no one move his bones.” So they left his bones undisturbed with the bones of the prophet who came from Samaria." 
2Kings23:19 And also all the houses of the high places which were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made provoking Yahweh to anger, Josiah removed; and he did to them just as he had done in Bethel." 
2Kings23:20 And all the priests of the high places who were there he slaughtered on the altars and burned human bones on them. Then he returned to Jerusalem. 
2Kings23:21 Then the king commanded all the people saying, “Celebrate the Passover to Yahweh your God as it is written in this book of the covenant.”" 
2Kings23:22 For such a Passover had not been celebrated from the days of the judges who judged Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel and of the kings of Judah." 
2Kings23:23 But in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, this Passover was celebrated to Yahweh in Jerusalem." 
2Kings23:24 Moreover, the mediums and the spiritists and the teraphim and the idols and all the detestable things that were seen in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, Josiah purged in order that he might establish the words of the law which were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of Yahweh." 
2Kings23:25 And before him there was no king like him who turned to Yahweh with all his heart and with all his soul and with all his might, according to all the law of Moses; nor did any like him arise after him." 
2Kings23:26 However, Yahweh did not turn from His great burning anger, His anger which burned against Judah, because of all the provocations with which Manasseh had provoked Him to anger." 
2Kings23:27 And Yahweh said, “I will remove Judah also from My presence, as I have removed Israel. And I will reject Jerusalem, this city which I have chosen, and the house of which I said, ‘My name shall be there.’”" 
2Kings23:28 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings23:29 In his days Pharaoh Neco king of Egypt went up to the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates. And King Josiah went to meet him, and when Pharaoh Neco saw him he put him to death at Megiddo." 
2Kings23:30 And his servants drove his body in a chariot from Megiddo and brought him to Jerusalem and buried him in his own tomb. Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and anointed him and made him king in place of his father. 
2Kings23:31 Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah." 
2Kings23:31 Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah." 
2Kings23:32 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his fathers had done." 
2Kings23:33 And Pharaoh Neco imprisoned him at Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and he imposed on the land a fine of one hundred talents of silver and one talent of gold." 
2Kings23:34 Then Pharaoh Neco made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in the place of Josiah his father and changed his name to Jehoiakim. But he took Jehoahaz and brought him to Egypt, and he died there." 
2Kings23:35 So Jehoiakim gave the silver and gold to Pharaoh, but he taxed the land in order to give the money at the command of Pharaoh. He exacted the silver and gold from the people of the land, each according to his valuation, to give it to Pharaoh Neco." 
2Kings23:36 Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Zebidah the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah." 
2Kings23:37 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his fathers had done." 
2Kings24:1 In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant for three years; then he turned and rebelled against him." 
2Kings24:2 And Yahweh sent against him marauding bands of Chaldeans, marauding bands of Arameans, marauding bands of Moabites, and marauding bands of Ammonites. So He sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of Yahweh which He had spoken by the hand of His slaves the prophets." 
2Kings24:3 Surely at the command of Yahweh it came upon Judah, to remove them from His presence because of the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he had done," 
2Kings24:4 and also for the innocent blood which he shed, for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood; and Yahweh was not willing to pardon." 
2Kings24:5 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings24:6 So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers, and Jehoiachin his son became king in his place." 
2Kings24:7 And the king of Egypt did not go out of his land again, for the king of Babylon had taken all that belonged to the king of Egypt from the brook of Egypt to the river Euphrates." 
2Kings24:8 Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem." 
2Kings24:9 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his father had done." 
2Kings24:10 At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon went up to Jerusalem, and the city came under siege." 
2Kings24:11 And Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon came to the city, while his servants were besieging it." 
2Kings24:12 Then Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, he and his mother and his servants and his commanders and his officials. So the king of Babylon took him captive in the eighth year of his reign." 
2Kings24:13 And he brought out from there all the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and the treasures of the king’s house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of Yahweh, just as Yahweh had spoken." 
2Kings24:14 Then he took away into exile all Jerusalem and all the commanders and all the mighty men of valor, 10,000 captives, and all the craftsmen and the smiths. None was left except the poorest people of the land." 
2Kings24:15 So he took Jehoiachin away into exile to Babylon; also the king’s mother and the king’s wives and his officials and the leading men of the land, he led away into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon." 
2Kings24:16 Now all the valiant men, seven thousand, and the craftsmen and the smiths, one thousand, all mighty men who could wage war, and these the king of Babylon brought into exile to Babylon." 
2Kings24:17 Then the king of Babylon made his uncle Mattaniah king in his place and changed his name to Zedekiah. 
2Kings24:18 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah." 
2Kings24:18 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah." 
2Kings24:19 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that Jehoiakim had done." 
2Kings24:20 For through the anger of Yahweh this came about in Jerusalem and Judah until He cast them out from His presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. 
2Kings25:1 Now in the ninth year of his reign, on the tenth day of the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came, he and all his military force, against Jerusalem, and he camped against it and built a siege wall all around it." 
2Kings25:2 So the city came under siege until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. 
2Kings25:3 On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was so strong in the city that there was no food for the people of the land. 
2Kings25:4 Then the city was broken into, and all the men of war fled by night by way of the gate between the two walls beside the king’s garden, though the Chaldeans were all around the city. And they went by way of the Arabah." 
2Kings25:5 But the military force of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook him in the plains of Jericho and all his military force was scattered from him. 
2Kings25:6 Then they seized the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and they spoke their judgment on him." 
2Kings25:7 And they slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes; then he blinded the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him with bronze fetters and brought him to Babylon. 
2Kings25:8 Now on the seventh day of the fifth month, which was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem." 
2Kings25:9 And he burned the house of Yahweh, the king’s house, and all the houses of Jerusalem; even every great house he burned with fire." 
2Kings25:10 So all the military force of the Chaldeans who were with the captain of the guard tore down the walls around Jerusalem. 
2Kings25:11 Then the rest of the people who were left in the city and the defectors who had defected to the king of Babylon and the rest of the multitude, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took away into exile." 
2Kings25:12 But the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and plowmen. 
2Kings25:13 Now the bronze pillars which were in the house of Yahweh, and the stands and the bronze sea which were in the house of Yahweh, the Chaldeans shattered and carried the bronze to Babylon." 
2Kings25:14 They also took away the pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the spoons, and all the bronze vessels which were used to minister." 
2Kings25:15 The captain of the guard also took away the firepans and the bowls, what was fine gold and what was fine silver." 
2Kings25:16 The two pillars, the one sea, and the stands which Solomon had made for the house of Yahweh—the bronze of all these vessels was beyond weight." 
2Kings25:17 The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and a bronze capital was on it; the height of the capital was three cubits, with a network and pomegranates on the capital all around, all of bronze. And the second pillar was like these with network." 
2Kings25:18 Then the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest, with the three doorkeepers of the temple." 
2Kings25:18 Then the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest, with the three doorkeepers of the temple." 
2Kings25:19 And from the city he took one official who was overseer of the men of war, and five of the king’s advisers who were found in the city; and the scribe of the commander of the army who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the city." 
2Kings25:20 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and led them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 
2Kings25:21 Then the king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah went into exile from its land. 
2Kings25:22 Now as for the people who were left in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, he appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan over them." 
2Kings25:23 Then all the commanders of the military forces, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah governor. So they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, namely, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men." 
2Kings25:24 Then Gedaliah swore to them and their men and said to them, “Do not be afraid of the servants of the Chaldeans; live in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it will be well with you.”" 
2Kings25:25 But it happened in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal seed, came with ten men and struck Gedaliah down so that he died, along with the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah." 
2Kings25:26 Then all the people, both small and great, and the commanders of the military forces arose and went to Egypt; for they were afraid of the Chaldeans." 
2Kings25:27 Now it happened in the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, that Evil-merodach king of Babylon, in the year that he became king, lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah from prison;" 
2Kings25:28 and he spoke to him good words, and he set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon." 
2Kings25:29 So Jehoiachin changed his prison clothes and had his meals in the king’s presence continually all the days of his life; 
2Kings25:30 and for his allowance, a continual allowance was given him by the king, a portion for each day, all the days of his life." 
1Chronicles1:1 Adam, Seth, Enosh," 
1Chronicles1:2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared," 
1Chronicles1:3 Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech," 
1Chronicles1:4 Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth." 
1Chronicles1:5 The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras." 
1Chronicles1:6 The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Diphath, and Togarmah." 
1Chronicles1:7 The sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim." 
1Chronicles1:8 The sons of Ham were Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan." 
1Chronicles1:9 The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raama, and Sabteca; and the sons of Raama were Sheba and Dedan." 
1Chronicles1:10 Cush was the father of Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one on the earth. 
1Chronicles1:11 Mizraim was the father of the people of Lud, Anam, Lehab, Naphtuh," 
1Chronicles1:12 Pathrus, Casluh (from which came the Philistines), and Caphtor." 
1Chronicles1:13 Canaan was the father of Sidon, his firstborn, Heth," 
1Chronicles1:14 and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites," 
1Chronicles1:15 the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites," 
1Chronicles1:16 the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites." 
1Chronicles1:17 The sons of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech." 
1Chronicles1:18 Arpachshad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah was the father of Eber." 
1Chronicles1:19 Two sons were born to Eber, the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided, and his brother’s name was Joktan." 
1Chronicles1:20 Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah," 
1Chronicles1:21 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah," 
1Chronicles1:22 Ebal, Abimael, Sheba," 
1Chronicles1:23 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan." 
1Chronicles1:23 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan." 
1Chronicles1:24 Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah," 
1Chronicles1:25 Eber, Peleg, Reu," 
1Chronicles1:26 Serug, Nahor, Terah," 
1Chronicles1:27 Abram, that is Abraham." 
1Chronicles1:28 The sons of Abraham were Isaac and Ishmael. 
1Chronicles1:29 These are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam," 
1Chronicles1:30 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema," 
1Chronicles1:31 Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah; these were the sons of Ishmael." 
1Chronicles1:32 The sons of Keturah, Abraham’s concubine, whom she bore, were Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan were Sheba and Dedan." 
1Chronicles1:33 The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah." 
1Chronicles1:34 Abraham became the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac were Esau and Israel. 
1Chronicles1:35 The sons of Esau were Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah." 
1Chronicles1:36 The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek." 
1Chronicles1:37 The sons of Reuel were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah." 
1Chronicles1:38 The sons of Seir were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan." 
1Chronicles1:39 The sons of Lotan were Hori and Homam; and Lotan’s sister was Timna. 
1Chronicles1:40 The sons of Shobal were Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon were Aiah and Anah." 
1Chronicles1:41 The son of Anah was Dishon. And the sons of Dishon were Hamran, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran." 
1Chronicles1:42 The sons of Ezer were Bilhan, Zaavan, and Jaakan. The sons of Dishon were Uz and Aran." 
1Chronicles1:43 Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king of the sons of Israel reigned. Bela was the son of Beor, and the name of his city was Dinhabah." 
1Chronicles1:44 Then Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah became king in his place." 
1Chronicles1:44 Then Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah became king in his place." 
1Chronicles1:45 Then Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites became king in his place." 
1Chronicles1:45 Then Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites became king in his place." 
1Chronicles1:46 Then Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who struck down Midian in the field of Moab, became king in his place; and the name of his city was Avith." 
1Chronicles1:47 Then Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah became king in his place." 
1Chronicles1:48 Then Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the River became king in his place." 
1Chronicles1:49 Then Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor became king in his place." 
1Chronicles1:50 Then Baal-hanan died, and Hadad became king in his place; and the name of his city was Pai, and his wife’s name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab." 
1Chronicles1:51 Then Hadad died. chief Timna, chief Aliah, chief Jetheth," 
1Chronicles1:52 chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon," 
1Chronicles1:53 chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar," 
1Chronicles1:54 chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom." 
1Chronicles2:1 These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun," 
1Chronicles2:2 Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher." 
1Chronicles2:3 The sons of Judah were Er, Onan, and Shelah; these three were born to him by Bath-shua the Canaanitess. And Er, Judah’s firstborn, was evil in the sight of Yahweh, so He put him to death." 
1Chronicles2:4 Tamar his daughter-in-law bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all. 
1Chronicles2:5 The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 
1Chronicles2:6 The sons of Zerah were Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara; five of them in all." 
1Chronicles2:7 The son of Carmi was Achar, the troubler of Israel, who violated what was devoted to destruction." 
1Chronicles2:8 The son of Ethan was Azariah. 
1Chronicles2:9 Now the sons of Hezron, who were born to him were Jerahmeel, Ram, and Chelubai." 
1Chronicles2:10 Ram became the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, leader of the sons of Judah;" 
1Chronicles2:11 Nahshon became the father of Salma, Salma became the father of Boaz," 
1Chronicles2:12 Boaz became the father of Obed, and Obed became the father of Jesse;" 
1Chronicles2:13 and Jesse became the father of Eliab his firstborn, then Abinadab the second, Shimea the third," 
1Chronicles2:14 Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth," 
1Chronicles2:15 Ozem the sixth, David the seventh;" 
1Chronicles2:16 and their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the three sons of Zeruiah were Abshai, Joab, and Asahel." 
1Chronicles2:17 Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite." 
1Chronicles2:18 Now Caleb the son of Hezron became a father by Azubah his wife, and by Jerioth; and these were her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon." 
1Chronicles2:19 Then Azubah died, and Caleb took for himself Ephrath as a wife, and she bore him Hur." 
1Chronicles2:20 Hur became the father of Uri, and Uri became the father of Bezalel." 
1Chronicles2:21 Afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he took as a wife when he was sixty years old; and she bore him Segub." 
1Chronicles2:22 Segub became the father of Jair, and he had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead." 
1Chronicles2:23 But Geshur and Aram took Havvoth-jair from them, with Kenath and its villages, even sixty cities. All these were the sons of Machir, the father of Gilead." 
1Chronicles2:24 After the death of Hezron in Caleb-ephrathah, Abijah, Hezron’s wife, bore him Ashhur the father of Tekoa." 
1Chronicles2:25 And the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were Ram the firstborn, then Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah." 
1Chronicles2:26 Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam." 
1Chronicles2:27 The sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel, were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker." 
1Chronicles2:28 The sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada. And the sons of Shammai were Nadab and Abishur. 
1Chronicles2:29 The name of Abishur’s wife was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid." 
1Chronicles2:30 The sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim, and Seled died without sons." 
1Chronicles2:31 The son of Appaim was Ishi. And the son of Ishi was Sheshan. And the son of Sheshan was Ahlai. 
1Chronicles2:32 The sons of Jada the brother of Shammai were Jether and Jonathan, and Jether died without sons." 
1Chronicles2:33 The sons of Jonathan were Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 
1Chronicles2:34 Now Sheshan had no sons, only daughters. And Sheshan had an Egyptian slave whose name was Jarha." 
1Chronicles2:35 Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant as a wife, and she bore him Attai." 
1Chronicles2:36 Attai became the father of Nathan, and Nathan became the father of Zabad," 
1Chronicles2:37 and Zabad became the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal became the father of Obed," 
1Chronicles2:38 and Obed became the father of Jehu, and Jehu became the father of Azariah," 
1Chronicles2:39 and Azariah became the father of Helez, and Helez became the father of Eleasah," 
1Chronicles2:40 and Eleasah became the father of Sismai, and Sismai became the father of Shallum," 
1Chronicles2:41 and Shallum became the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah became the father of Elishama." 
1Chronicles2:42 Now the sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel, were Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph; and his son was Mareshah, the father of Hebron." 
1Chronicles2:43 The sons of Hebron were Korah and Tappuah and Rekem and Shema. 
1Chronicles2:44 Shema became the father of Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem became the father of Shammai." 
1Chronicles2:45 The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Bethzur." 
1Chronicles2:46 Ephah, Caleb’s concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez; and Haran became the father of Gazez." 
1Chronicles2:47 The sons of Jahdai were Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph." 
1Chronicles2:48 Maacah, Caleb’s concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah." 
1Chronicles2:49 She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbena and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah." 
1Chronicles2:50 These were the sons of Caleb. The sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, were Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim," 
1Chronicles2:51 Salma the father of Bethlehem and Hareph the father of Beth-gader. 
1Chronicles2:52 Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had sons: Haroeh, half of the Manahathites," 
1Chronicles2:53 and the families of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; from these came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites." 
1Chronicles2:54 The sons of Salma were Bethlehem and the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites." 
1Chronicles2:55 The families of scribes who lived at Jabez were the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, and the Sucathites. Those are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab." 
1Chronicles3:1 Now these were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn was Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second was Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelitess;" 
1Chronicles3:1 Now these were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn was Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second was Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelitess;" 
1Chronicles3:2 the third was Absalom the son of Maacah, the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth was Adonijah the son of Haggith;" 
1Chronicles3:3 the fifth was Shephatiah, by Abital; the sixth was Ithream, by his wife Eglah." 
1Chronicles3:4 Six were born to him in Hebron, and there he reigned seven years and six months. And in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years." 
1Chronicles3:5 These were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, four, by Bath-shua the daughter of Ammiel;" 
1Chronicles3:6 and Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet," 
1Chronicles3:7 Nogah, Nepheg, and Japhia," 
1Chronicles3:8 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine." 
1Chronicles3:9 All these were the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines; and Tamar was their sister." 
1Chronicles3:10 Now Solomon’s son was Rehoboam, Abijah was his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son," 
1Chronicles3:11 Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son," 
1Chronicles3:12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son," 
1Chronicles3:13 Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son," 
1Chronicles3:14 Amon his son, Josiah his son." 
1Chronicles3:15 The sons of Josiah were Johanan the firstborn, and the second was Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum." 
1Chronicles3:16 The sons of Jehoiakim were Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son." 
1Chronicles3:17 The sons of Jeconiah, the prisoner, were Shealtiel his son," 
1Chronicles3:18 and Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah." 
1Chronicles3:19 The sons of Pedaiah were Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel were Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith was their sister;" 
1Chronicles3:20 and Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed, five." 
1Chronicles3:21 The sons of Hananiah were Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shecaniah." 
1Chronicles3:21 The sons of Hananiah were Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shecaniah." 
1Chronicles3:22 The sons of Shecaniah were Shemaiah, and the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat, six." 
1Chronicles3:23 The sons of Neariah were Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam, three." 
1Chronicles3:24 The sons of Elioenai were Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani, seven." 
1Chronicles4:1 The sons of Judah were Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal." 
1Chronicles4:2 Reaiah the son of Shobal became the father of Jahath, and Jahath became the father of Ahumai and Lahad. These were the families of the Zorathites." 
1Chronicles4:3 These were the sons of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi." 
1Chronicles4:4 Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These were the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem." 
1Chronicles4:5 Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, had two wives, Helah and Naarah." 
1Chronicles4:6 Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah." 
1Chronicles4:7 The sons of Helah were Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan." 
1Chronicles4:8 Koz became the father of Anub and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum." 
1Chronicles4:9 Now Jabez was more honorable than his brothers, and his mother named him Jabez saying, “Because I bore him with pain.”" 
1Chronicles4:10 Then Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, “Oh that You would bless me indeed and enlarge my border, and that Your hand might be with me, and that You would keep me from harm that it may not pain me!” And God brought about what he asked." 
1Chronicles4:11 Chelub the brother of Shuhah became the father of Mehir, who was the father of Eshton." 
1Chronicles4:12 Eshton became the father of Beth-rapha and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Recah." 
1Chronicles4:13 Now the sons of Kenaz were Othniel and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel were Hathath and Meonothai. 
1Chronicles4:14 Meonothai became the father of Ophrah, and Seraiah became the father of Joab the father of Ge-harashim, for they were craftsmen." 
1Chronicles4:15 The sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh were Iru, Elah, and Naam; and the son of Elah was Kenaz." 
1Chronicles4:16 The sons of Jehallelel were Ziph and Ziphah, Tiria and Asarel." 
1Chronicles4:17 The sons of Ezrah were Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. (And these are the sons of Bithia the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took) and she conceived and bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa." 
1Chronicles4:17 The sons of Ezrah were Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. (And these are the sons of Bithia the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took) and she conceived and bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa." 
1Chronicles4:18 His Jewish wife bore Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah." 
1Chronicles4:19 The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and Eshtemoa the Maacathite." 
1Chronicles4:20 The sons of Shimon were Amnon and Rinnah, Benhanan and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi were Zoheth and Ben-zoheth." 
1Chronicles4:21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were Er the father of Lecah and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of the fine linen workers at Beth-ashbea;" 
1Chronicles4:22 and Jokim, the men of Cozeba, Joash, Saraph, who ruled in Moab, and Jashubi-lehem. And the records are ancient." 
1Chronicles4:23 These were the potters and the inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah; they lived there with the king for his work. 
1Chronicles4:24 The sons of Simeon were Nemuel and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;" 
1Chronicles4:25 Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son." 
1Chronicles4:26 The sons of Mishma were Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son." 
1Chronicles4:27 Now Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brothers did not have many sons, nor did all their family multiply like the sons of Judah." 
1Chronicles4:28 They lived at Beersheba, Moladah, and Hazar-shual," 
1Chronicles4:29 at Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad," 
1Chronicles4:30 Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag," 
1Chronicles4:31 Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susim, Beth-biri, and Shaaraim. These were their cities until the reign of David." 
1Chronicles4:32 Their villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen, and Ashan, five cities;" 
1Chronicles4:33 and all their villages that were all around these cities as far as Baal. These were their settlements, and they have their genealogy." 
1Chronicles4:34 Meshobab and Jamlech and Joshah the son of Amaziah," 
1Chronicles4:35 and Joel and Jehu the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel," 
1Chronicles4:35 and Joel and Jehu the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel," 
1Chronicles4:36 and Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah," 
1Chronicles4:37 Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah;" 
1Chronicles4:38 these, who came into the record by name, were leaders in their families; and their fathers’ houses increased greatly." 
1Chronicles4:39 They went to the entrance of Gedor, even to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks." 
1Chronicles4:40 They found rich and good pasture, and the land was broad and quiet and peaceful; for those who lived there formerly were Hamites." 
1Chronicles4:41 And these, recorded by name, came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and struck down their tents and the Meunites who were found there, and devoted them to destruction to this day, and lived in their place, because there was pasture there for their flocks." 
1Chronicles4:42 From them, from the sons of Simeon, five hundred men went to Mount Seir, with Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi, as their chiefs." 
1Chronicles4:43 They struck down the remnant of the Amalekites who escaped, and have lived there to this day." 
1Chronicles5:1 Now the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel (for he was the firstborn, but because he profaned his father’s bed, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel; so that he is not recorded in the genealogy according to the birthright." 
1Chronicles5:2 Though Judah prevailed over his brothers, and from him came the ruler, yet the birthright belonged to Joseph)," 
1Chronicles5:3 the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel were Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi." 
1Chronicles5:4 The sons of Joel were Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son," 
1Chronicles5:4 The sons of Joel were Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son," 
1Chronicles5:5 Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son," 
1Chronicles5:5 Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son," 
1Chronicles5:6 Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria took away into exile; he was leader of the Reubenites." 
1Chronicles5:7 His relatives by their families, in the genealogy of their generations, were Jeiel the chief, then Zechariah," 
1Chronicles5:7 His relatives by their families, in the genealogy of their generations, were Jeiel the chief, then Zechariah," 
1Chronicles5:8 and Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who lived in Aroer, even to Nebo and Baal-meon." 
1Chronicles5:8 and Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who lived in Aroer, even to Nebo and Baal-meon." 
1Chronicles5:9 To the east he lived as far as the entrance of the wilderness from the river Euphrates, because their cattle had increased in the land of Gilead." 
1Chronicles5:10 In the days of Saul they made war with the Hagrites, and they fell by their hand. So they lived in their tents throughout all the land east of Gilead." 
1Chronicles5:11 Now the sons of Gad lived opposite them in the land of Bashan as far as Salecah. 
1Chronicles5:12 Joel was the chief and Shapham the second, then Janai and Shaphat in Bashan." 
1Chronicles5:12 Joel was the chief and Shapham the second, then Janai and Shaphat in Bashan." 
1Chronicles5:13 Their relatives of their fathers’ households were Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia, and Eber, seven." 
1Chronicles5:14 These were the sons of Abihail, the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz;" 
1Chronicles5:15 Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, was head of their fathers’ households." 
1Chronicles5:16 They lived in Gilead, in Bashan and in its towns, and in all the pasture lands of Sharon, as far as their borders." 
1Chronicles5:17 All of these were recorded in the genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel. 
1Chronicles5:18 The sons of Reuben and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh, consisting of men of valor, men who bore shield and sword and shot with bow and were learned in the ways of battle, were 44,760, who went out for military duty." 
1Chronicles5:19 They made war against the Hagrites, Jetur, Naphish, and Nodab." 
1Chronicles5:20 They were helped against them, and the Hagrites and all who were with them were given into their hand; for they cried out to God in the battle, and He was moved by their entreaty because they trusted in Him." 
1Chronicles5:21 They took captive their cattle: their 50,000 camels, 250,000 sheep, 2,000 donkeys; and 100,000 men." 
1Chronicles5:22 For many fell slain, because the war was of God. And they lived in their place until the exile." 
1Chronicles5:23 Now the sons of the half-tribe of Manasseh lived in the land; from Bashan to Baal-hermon and Senir and Mount Hermon they were numerous. 
1Chronicles5:24 These were the heads of their fathers’ households, even Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valor, men of renown, heads of their fathers’ households." 
1Chronicles5:24 These were the heads of their fathers’ households, even Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valor, men of renown, heads of their fathers’ households." 
1Chronicles5:25 But they acted unfaithfully against the God of their fathers and played the harlot after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had destroyed before them." 
1Chronicles5:26 So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul, king of Assyria, even the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser, king of Assyria, and he took them away into exile, namely the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, and brought them to Halah, Habor, Hara, and to the river of Gozan, to this day." 
1Chronicles6:1 The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari." 
1Chronicles6:2 The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles6:3 The children of Amram were Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. And the sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar." 
1Chronicles6:4 Eleazar became the father of Phinehas, and Phinehas became the father of Abishua," 
1Chronicles6:5 and Abishua became the father of Bukki, and Bukki became the father of Uzzi," 
1Chronicles6:6 and Uzzi became the father of Zerahiah, and Zerahiah became the father of Meraioth," 
1Chronicles6:7 Meraioth became the father of Amariah, and Amariah became the father of Ahitub," 
1Chronicles6:8 and Ahitub became the father of Zadok, and Zadok became the father of Ahimaaz," 
1Chronicles6:9 and Ahimaaz became the father of Azariah, and Azariah became the father of Johanan," 
1Chronicles6:10 and Johanan became the father of Azariah (it was he who ministered as the priest in the house which Solomon built in Jerusalem)," 
1Chronicles6:11 and Azariah became the father of Amariah, and Amariah became the father of Ahitub," 
1Chronicles6:12 and Ahitub became the father of Zadok, and Zadok became the father of Shallum," 
1Chronicles6:13 and Shallum became the father of Hilkiah, and Hilkiah became the father of Azariah," 
1Chronicles6:14 and Azariah became the father of Seraiah, and Seraiah became the father of Jehozadak;" 
1Chronicles6:15 and Jehozadak went along when Yahweh took Judah and Jerusalem away into exile by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. 
1Chronicles6:16 The sons of Levi were Gershom, Kohath, and Merari." 
1Chronicles6:17 These are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei. 
1Chronicles6:18 The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles6:19 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers’ households. 
1Chronicles6:20 Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son," 
1Chronicles6:21 Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son." 
1Chronicles6:22 The sons of Kohath were Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son," 
1Chronicles6:23 Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son," 
1Chronicles6:24 Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son." 
1Chronicles6:25 The sons of Elkanah were Amasai and Ahimoth. 
1Chronicles6:26 As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah were Zophai his son and Nahath his son," 
1Chronicles6:27 Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son." 
1Chronicles6:28 The sons of Samuel were Joel the firstborn, and Abijah the second." 
1Chronicles6:28 The sons of Samuel were Joel the firstborn, and Abijah the second." 
1Chronicles6:29 The sons of Merari were Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son," 
1Chronicles6:30 Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son." 
1Chronicles6:31 Now these are those whom David caused to stand over the service of song in the house of Yahweh, after the ark rested there." 
1Chronicles6:32 And they ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, until Solomon had built the house of Yahweh in Jerusalem; and they stood for their service according to their custom." 
1Chronicles6:33 These are those who stood for service with their sons: From the sons of the Kohathites were Heman the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel," 
1Chronicles6:33 These are those who stood for service with their sons: From the sons of the Kohathites were Heman the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel," 
1Chronicles6:34 the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah," 
1Chronicles6:35 the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai," 
1Chronicles6:36 the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah," 
1Chronicles6:36 the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah," 
1Chronicles6:36 the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah," 
1Chronicles6:37 the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah," 
1Chronicles6:38 the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel." 
1Chronicles6:39 Heman’s brother Asaph stood at his right hand, even Asaph the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea," 
1Chronicles6:40 the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah," 
1Chronicles6:41 the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah," 
1Chronicles6:42 the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei," 
1Chronicles6:43 the son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi." 
1Chronicles6:44 On the left hand were their relatives the sons of Merari: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch," 
1Chronicles6:45 the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah," 
1Chronicles6:46 the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer," 
1Chronicles6:47 the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi." 
1Chronicles6:48 Their relatives the Levites were given over unto all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God. 
1Chronicles6:49 But Aaron and his sons offered offerings up in smoke on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense, for all the work of the Holy of Holies, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded." 
1Chronicles6:50 These are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son," 
1Chronicles6:51 Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son," 
1Chronicles6:52 Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son," 
1Chronicles6:53 Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son." 
1Chronicles6:54 Now these are their settlements according to their camps within their borders. To the sons of Aaron of the families of the Kohathites (for the lot was theirs first)," 
1Chronicles6:55 to them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah, with its pasture lands all around it;" 
1Chronicles6:56 but the fields of the city and its villages, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh." 
1Chronicles6:57 To the sons of Aaron they gave the following cities of refuge: Hebron, Libnah also with its pasture lands, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its pasture lands," 
1Chronicles6:58 Hilen with its pasture lands, Debir with its pasture lands," 
1Chronicles6:59 Ashan with its pasture lands, and Beth-shemesh with its pasture lands;" 
1Chronicles6:60 from the tribe of Benjamin: Geba with its pasture lands, Allemeth with its pasture lands, and Anathoth with its pasture lands. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities." 
1Chronicles6:61 Now to the rest of the sons of Kohath were given by lot, from the family of the tribe, from the half-tribe, the half of Manasseh, ten cities." 
1Chronicles6:62 And to the sons of Gershom, according to their families, were given from the tribe of Issachar and from the tribe of Asher, the tribe of Naphtali, and the tribe of Manasseh, thirteen cities in Bashan." 
1Chronicles6:63 To the sons of Merari were given by lot, according to their families, from the tribe of Reuben, the tribe of Gad, and the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities." 
1Chronicles6:64 So the sons of Israel gave to the Levites the cities with their pasture lands. 
1Chronicles6:65 They also gave by lot from the tribe of the sons of Judah, the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, these cities which are mentioned here by name." 
1Chronicles6:66 Now some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their territory from the tribe of Ephraim. 
1Chronicles6:67 And they gave to them the following cities of refuge: Shechem, with its pasture lands, in the hill country of Ephraim, and Gezer with its pasture lands," 
1Chronicles6:68 Jokmeam with its pasture lands, Beth-horon with its pasture lands," 
1Chronicles6:69 Aijalon with its pasture lands, and Gath-rimmon with its pasture lands;" 
1Chronicles6:70 and from the half-tribe of Manasseh: Aner with its pasture lands and Bileam with its pasture lands, for the family of the rest of the sons of Kohath." 
1Chronicles6:71 To the sons of Gershom were given, from the family of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan with its pasture lands and Ashtaroth with its pasture lands;" 
1Chronicles6:72 and from the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh with its pasture lands, Daberath with its pasture lands," 
1Chronicles6:73 and Ramoth with its pasture lands, Anem with its pasture lands;" 
1Chronicles6:74 and from the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its pasture lands, Abdon with its pasture lands," 
1Chronicles6:75 Hukok with its pasture lands, and Rehob with its pasture lands;" 
1Chronicles6:76 and from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee with its pasture lands, Hammon with its pasture lands, and Kiriathaim with its pasture lands." 
1Chronicles6:77 To the sons of Merari, the rest of the Levites, were given, from the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono with its pasture lands, Tabor with its pasture lands;" 
1Chronicles6:78 and beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, were given them, from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the wilderness with its pasture lands, Jahzah with its pasture lands," 
1Chronicles6:79 Kedemoth with its pasture lands, and Mephaath with its pasture lands;" 
1Chronicles6:80 and from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead with its pasture lands, Mahanaim with its pasture lands," 
1Chronicles6:81 Heshbon with its pasture lands, and Jazer with its pasture lands." 
1Chronicles7:1 Now the sons of Issachar: Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four." 
1Chronicles7:2 The sons of Tola were Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, and Samuel, heads of their fathers’ households. The sons of Tola were mighty men of valor in their generations; their number in the days of David was 22,600." 
1Chronicles7:3 The son of Uzzi was Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah were Michael, Obadiah, Joel, Isshiah; all five of them were chief men." 
1Chronicles7:3 The son of Uzzi was Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah were Michael, Obadiah, Joel, Isshiah; all five of them were chief men." 
1Chronicles7:3 The son of Uzzi was Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah were Michael, Obadiah, Joel, Isshiah; all five of them were chief men." 
1Chronicles7:4 With them by their generations according to their fathers’ households were 36,000 troops of the army for war, for they had many wives and sons." 
1Chronicles7:5 Their relatives among all the families of Issachar were mighty men of valor, recorded by genealogy, in all 87,000." 
1Chronicles7:6 The sons of Benjamin: Bela and Becher and Jediael, three." 
1Chronicles7:7 The sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri, five. They were heads of fathers’ households, mighty men of valor, and were 22,034 recorded by genealogy." 
1Chronicles7:8 The sons of Becher were Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Alemeth. All these were the sons of Becher." 
1Chronicles7:9 They were recorded by genealogy, according to their generations, heads of their fathers’ households, 20,200 mighty men of valor." 
1Chronicles7:10 The son of Jediael was Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan were Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahishahar." 
1Chronicles7:11 All these were sons of Jediael, according to the heads of their fathers’ households, 17,200 mighty men of valor, who went out with the army to war." 
1Chronicles7:12 Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir; Hushim was the son of Aher. 
1Chronicles7:13 The sons of Naphtali were Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah." 
1Chronicles7:14 The sons of Manasseh were Asriel, whom his Aramean concubine bore; she bore Machir the father of Gilead." 
1Chronicles7:15 Now Machir took a wife for Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister’s name was Maacah. And the name of the second was Zelophehad, and Zelophehad had daughters." 
1Chronicles7:16 And Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she named him Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rakem." 
1Chronicles7:17 The son of Ulam was Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh." 
1Chronicles7:18 And his sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod and Abiezer and Mahlah. 
1Chronicles7:19 The sons of Shemida were Ahian and Shechem and Likhi and Aniam. 
1Chronicles7:20 The sons of Ephraim were Shuthelah and Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son," 
1Chronicles7:21 Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son, and Ezer and Elead whom the men of Gath who were born in the land killed, because they came down to take their livestock." 
1Chronicles7:22 And their father Ephraim mourned many days, and his relatives came to comfort him." 
1Chronicles7:23 Then he went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son, and he named him Beriah, because calamity had come upon his house." 
1Chronicles7:24 And his daughter was Sheerah, and she built lower and upper Beth-horon, also Uzzen-sheerah." 
1Chronicles7:25 Rephah was his son along with Resheph, Telah his son, Tahan his son," 
1Chronicles7:26 Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son," 
1Chronicles7:27 Non his son and Joshua his son. 
1Chronicles7:27 Non his son and Joshua his son. 
1Chronicles7:28 Now their possessions and settlements were Bethel with its towns, and to the east Naaran, and to the west Gezer with its towns, and Shechem with its towns as far as Ayyah with its towns," 
1Chronicles7:29 and along the borders of the sons of Manasseh, Beth-shean with its towns, Taanach with its towns, Megiddo with its towns, Dor with its towns. In these lived the sons of Joseph the son of Israel." 
1Chronicles7:30 The sons of Asher were Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister." 
1Chronicles7:31 The sons of Beriah were Heber and Malchiel, who was the father of Birzaith." 
1Chronicles7:32 Heber became the father of Japhlet, Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister." 
1Chronicles7:33 The sons of Japhlet were Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These were the sons of Japhlet." 
1Chronicles7:34 The sons of Shemer were Ahi and Rohgah, Jehubbah and Aram." 
1Chronicles7:35 The sons of his brother Helem were Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal." 
1Chronicles7:36 The sons of Zophah were Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, and Imrah," 
1Chronicles7:37 Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera." 
1Chronicles7:38 The sons of Jether were Jephunneh, Pispa, and Ara." 
1Chronicles7:39 The sons of Ulla were Arah, Hanniel, and Rizia." 
1Chronicles7:40 All these were the sons of Asher, heads of the fathers’ houses, choice and mighty men of valor, heads of the princes. And the number of them recorded by genealogy for the army in war was 26,000 men." 
1Chronicles8:1 And Benjamin became the father of Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third," 
1Chronicles8:2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth." 
1Chronicles8:3 Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abihud," 
1Chronicles8:4 Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah," 
1Chronicles8:5 Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram." 
1Chronicles8:6 These are the sons of Ehud: these are the heads of fathers’ households of the inhabitants of Geba, and they took them away into exile to Manahath," 
1Chronicles8:7 namely, Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera—he took them away into exile; and he became the father of Uzza and Ahihud." 
1Chronicles8:8 Shaharaim became the father of children in the country of Moab after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wives. 
1Chronicles8:9 By Hodesh his wife he became the father of Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam," 
1Chronicles8:9 By Hodesh his wife he became the father of Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam," 
1Chronicles8:10 Jeuz, Sachia, Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers’ households." 
1Chronicles8:11 By Hushim he became the father of Abitub and Elpaal. 
1Chronicles8:12 The sons of Elpaal were Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod, with its towns;" 
1Chronicles8:13 and Beriah and Shema, who were heads of fathers’ households of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who made the inhabitants of Gath flee;" 
1Chronicles8:14 and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth." 
1Chronicles8:15 Zebadiah, Arad, Eder," 
1Chronicles8:16 Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were the sons of Beriah." 
1Chronicles8:17 Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber," 
1Chronicles8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal." 
1Chronicles8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal." 
1Chronicles8:19 Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi," 
1Chronicles8:20 Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel," 
1Chronicles8:21 Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei." 
1Chronicles8:22 Ishpan, Eber, Eliel," 
1Chronicles8:23 Abdon, Zichri, Hanan," 
1Chronicles8:24 Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah," 
1Chronicles8:25 Iphdeiah and Penuel were the sons of Shashak. 
1Chronicles8:26 Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah," 
1Chronicles8:27 Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham." 
1Chronicles8:28 These were heads of the fathers’ households according to their generations, the heads who lived in Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles8:29 Now in Gibeon, Jeiel the father of Gibeon lived, and his wife’s name was Maacah;" 
1Chronicles8:30 and his firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab," 
1Chronicles8:31 Gedor, Ahio, and Zecher." 
1Chronicles8:32 Mikloth became the father of Shimeah. And they also lived with their relatives in Jerusalem opposite their other relatives. 
1Chronicles8:33 Ner became the father of Kish, and Kish became the father of Saul, and Saul became the father of Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal." 
1Chronicles8:34 The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal became the father of Micah." 
1Chronicles8:34 The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal became the father of Micah." 
1Chronicles8:35 The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles8:35 The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles8:36 Ahaz became the father of Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah became the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri became the father of Moza." 
1Chronicles8:37 Moza became the father of Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son." 
1Chronicles8:38 Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles8:38 Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles8:39 The sons of Eshek his brother were Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third." 
1Chronicles8:40 The sons of Ulam were mighty men of valor, archers, and had many sons and grandsons, 150 of them. All these were of the sons of Benjamin." 
1Chronicles9:1 So all Israel was recorded by genealogies; and behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. And Judah was taken away into exile to Babylon for their unfaithfulness." 
1Chronicles9:2 Now the first who lived in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the temple servants." 
1Chronicles9:3 And some of the sons of Judah, of the sons of Benjamin and of the sons of Ephraim and Manasseh lived in Jerusalem:" 
1Chronicles9:4 Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, from the sons of Perez the son of Judah." 
1Chronicles9:5 From the Shilonites were Asaiah the firstborn and his sons. 
1Chronicles9:6 From the sons of Zerah were Jeuel and their relatives, 690 of them." 
1Chronicles9:7 From the sons of Benjamin were Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah," 
1Chronicles9:8 and Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;" 
1Chronicles9:9 and their relatives according to their generations, 956. All these were heads of fathers’ households according to their fathers’ houses." 
1Chronicles9:10 From the priests were Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, Jachin," 
1Chronicles9:11 and Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the leader of the house of God;" 
1Chronicles9:12 and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah, and Maasai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;" 
1Chronicles9:13 and their relatives, heads of their fathers’ households, 1,760 mighty men of valor for the work of the service of the house of God." 
1Chronicles9:14 Of the Levites were Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;" 
1Chronicles9:15 and Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph," 
1Chronicles9:16 and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites." 
1Chronicles9:16 and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites." 
1Chronicles9:17 Now the gatekeepers were Shallum and Akkub and Talmon and Ahiman and their relatives (Shallum the chief 
1Chronicles9:18 being stationed until now at the king’s gate to the east). These were the gatekeepers for the camp of the sons of Levi. 
1Chronicles9:19 Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his relatives of his father’s house, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent; and their fathers had been over the camp of Yahweh, keepers of the entrance." 
1Chronicles9:20 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was ruler over them previously, and Yahweh was with him." 
1Chronicles9:21 Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper of the entrance of the tent of meeting. 
1Chronicles9:21 Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper of the entrance of the tent of meeting. 
1Chronicles9:22 All these who were chosen to be gatekeepers at the thresholds were 212. These were recorded by genealogy in their villages, whom David and Samuel the seer established in their office of trust." 
1Chronicles9:23 So they and their sons were over the gates of the house of Yahweh, even the house of the tent, as those who kept watch." 
1Chronicles9:24 The gatekeepers were on the four sides, to the east, west, north, and south." 
1Chronicles9:25 And their relatives in their villages were to come in every seven days from time to time to be with them; 
1Chronicles9:26 for the four chief gatekeepers who were Levites, were in an office of trust, and were over the chambers and over the treasuries in the house of God." 
1Chronicles9:27 And they spent the night all around the house of God, because the watch was committed to them; and they were over opening it morning by morning." 
1Chronicles9:28 Now some of them were over the utensils of service, for they counted them when they brought them in and when they took them out." 
1Chronicles9:29 Some of them also were appointed over the furniture and over all the utensils of the sanctuary and over the fine flour and the wine and the oil and the frankincense and the spices. 
1Chronicles9:30 Some of the sons of the priests prepared the mixing of the spices. 
1Chronicles9:31 And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, had the office of trust over the things which were baked in pans." 
1Chronicles9:32 Some of their relatives of the sons of the Kohathites were over the showbread to prepare it every sabbath. 
1Chronicles9:33 Now these are the singers, heads of fathers’ households of the Levites, who lived in the chambers of the temple free from other service; for they were over them in their work day and night." 
1Chronicles9:34 These were heads of fathers’ households of the Levites according to their generations, the heads who lived in Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles9:35 Now in Gibeon, Jeiel the father of Gibeon lived, and his wife’s name was Maacah," 
1Chronicles9:36 and his firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab," 
1Chronicles9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth." 
1Chronicles9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth." 
1Chronicles9:38 Mikloth became the father of Shimeam. And they also lived with their relatives in Jerusalem opposite their other relatives. 
1Chronicles9:39 Ner became the father of Kish, and Kish became the father of Saul, and Saul became the father of Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal." 
1Chronicles9:40 The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal became the father of Micah." 
1Chronicles9:40 The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal became the father of Micah." 
1Chronicles9:41 The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles9:41 The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles9:42 Ahaz became the father of Jarah, and Jarah became the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri became the father of Moza." 
1Chronicles9:43 Moza became the father of Binea and Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son." 
1Chronicles9:44 Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles9:44 Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles10:1 Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines and fell slain on Mount Gilboa. 
1Chronicles10:2 And the Philistines closely pursued Saul and his sons, and the Philistines struck down Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul." 
1Chronicles10:3 And the battle became heavy against Saul, and the archers hit him; and he was wounded by the archers." 
1Chronicles10:4 Then Saul said to his armor bearer, “Draw your sword and pierce me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me.” But his armor bearer was not willing, for he was greatly afraid. So Saul took his sword and fell on it." 
1Chronicles10:5 Then his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, so he also fell on his sword and died." 
1Chronicles10:6 Thus Saul died with his three sons, and all those of his house died together." 
1Chronicles10:7 Then all the men of Israel who were in the valley saw that they had fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead. So they forsook their cities and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them." 
1Chronicles10:8 Now it happened on the next day, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa." 
1Chronicles10:9 So they stripped him and took his head and his weapons and sent them all around the land of the Philistines, to proclaim the good news to their idols and to the people." 
1Chronicles10:10 And they placed his weapons in the house of their gods and fastened his head in the house of Dagon. 
1Chronicles10:11 Then all Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul," 
1Chronicles10:12 so all the valiant men arose and took away the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons and brought them to Jabesh, and they buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh and fasted seven days." 
1Chronicles10:13 Thus Saul died for his unfaithfulness, which he committed against Yahweh, because of the word of Yahweh which he did not keep; and also because he asked counsel of a medium, making inquiry of it," 
1Chronicles10:14 and did not inquire of Yahweh. Therefore He put him to death and turned the kingdom to David the son of Jesse. 
1Chronicles11:1 Then all Israel gathered to David at Hebron and said, “Behold, we are your bone and your flesh." 
1Chronicles11:2 Previously, even when Saul was king, you were the one who led out and brought in Israel; and Yahweh your God said to you, ‘You will shepherd My people Israel, and you will be a ruler over My people Israel.’”" 
1Chronicles11:3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David cut a covenant with them in Hebron before Yahweh; then they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of Yahweh through Samuel." 
1Chronicles11:4 Then David and all Israel went to Jerusalem (that is, Jebus); and the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were there." 
1Chronicles11:5 Then the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, “You shall not come in here.” Nevertheless, David captured the fortress of Zion, that is, the city of David." 
1Chronicles11:6 And David said, “Whoever strikes down a Jebusite first shall be chief and commander.” Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, so he became chief." 
1Chronicles11:7 Then David lived in the stronghold; therefore it was called the city of David. 
1Chronicles11:8 And he built the city all around, from the Millo even to the surrounding area; and Joab repaired the rest of the city." 
1Chronicles11:9 And David became greater and greater, and Yahweh of hosts was with him." 
1Chronicles11:10 Now these are the heads of the mighty men whom David had, who gave him strong support in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of Yahweh concerning Israel." 
1Chronicles11:11 These constitute the list of the mighty men whom David had: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, the chief of the thirty; he lifted up his spear against three hundred slain by him at one time." 
1Chronicles11:12 And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighty men." 
1Chronicles11:13 He was with David at Pasdammim. Now the Philistines had gathered together there to battle, and there was a portion of the field full of barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines." 
1Chronicles11:14 But they took their stand in the midst of that portion and delivered it, and struck down the Philistines. So Yahweh saved them by a great salvation." 
1Chronicles11:15 Then three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David, to the cave of Adullam, while the camp of the Philistines was camping in the valley of Rephaim." 
1Chronicles11:16 And David was then in the fortress, while the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem." 
1Chronicles11:17 Then David had a craving and said, “Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!”" 
1Chronicles11:18 So the three broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water from the well of Bethlehem which was by the gate, and carried it and brought it to David. Nevertheless, David was not willing to drink it, but poured it out to Yahweh;" 
1Chronicles11:19 and he said, “Be it far from me before my God that I should do this. Shall I drink the blood of these men who went at the risk of their lives? For at the risk of their lives they brought it.” Therefore he was not willing to drink it. These things the three mighty men did." 
1Chronicles11:20 Now Abshai, the brother of Joab, was chief of the thirty. And he swung his spear against three hundred who were slain by him; and he had a name as well as the thirty." 
1Chronicles11:21 Of the three in the second rank he was the most honored and became their commander; however, he did not attain to the first three." 
1Chronicles11:22 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, mighty in deeds, struck down the two sons of Ariel of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in the midst of a pit on a snowy day." 
1Chronicles11:23 He had also struck down an Egyptian, an impressive man, five cubits tall. Now in the Egyptian’s hand was a spear like a weaver’s beam, but he went down to him with a club and snatched the spear from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear." 
1Chronicles11:24 These things Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and had a name as well as the three mighty men." 
1Chronicles11:25 Behold, he was honored among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David appointed him over his guard." 
1Chronicles11:26 Now the mighty men of the military forces were Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem," 
1Chronicles11:27 Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite," 
1Chronicles11:28 Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite," 
1Chronicles11:29 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite," 
1Chronicles11:30 Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite," 
1Chronicles11:31 Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the sons of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite," 
1Chronicles11:32 Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite," 
1Chronicles11:33 Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite," 
1Chronicles11:34 the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite," 
1Chronicles11:35 Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur," 
1Chronicles11:36 Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite," 
1Chronicles11:37 Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai," 
1Chronicles11:38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri," 
1Chronicles11:38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri," 
1Chronicles11:39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armor bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah," 
1Chronicles11:40 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite," 
1Chronicles11:41 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai," 
1Chronicles11:42 Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a chief of the Reubenites, and thirty with him," 
1Chronicles11:43 Hanan the son of Maacah and Joshaphat the Mithnite," 
1Chronicles11:44 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite," 
1Chronicles11:45 Jediael the son of Shimri and Joha his brother, the Tizite," 
1Chronicles11:46 Eliel the Mahavite and Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite," 
1Chronicles11:47 Eliel and Obed and Jaasiel the Mezobaite. 
1Chronicles12:1 Now these are the ones who came to David at Ziklag, while he was still restricted because of Saul the son of Kish; and they were among the mighty men who helped him in war." 
1Chronicles12:2 They were equipped with bows, using both the right hand and the left to sling stones and to shoot arrows from the bow; they were Saul’s relatives from Benjamin." 
1Chronicles12:3 The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; and Jeziel and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah and Jehu the Anathothite," 
1Chronicles12:4 and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty. Then Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad the Gederathite," 
1Chronicles12:4 and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty. Then Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad the Gederathite," 
1Chronicles12:5 Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, Shephatiah the Haruphite," 
1Chronicles12:6 Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer, Jashobeam, the Korahites," 
1Chronicles12:7 and Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor." 
1Chronicles12:7 and Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor." 
1Chronicles12:8 From the Gadites, mighty men of valor separated themselves to David in the stronghold in the wilderness, men of war who had gone out for military duty, who could handle large shield and spear, and whose faces were like the faces of lions, and they were as swift as the gazelles on the mountains." 
1Chronicles12:9 Ezer was the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third," 
1Chronicles12:9 Ezer was the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third," 
1Chronicles12:10 Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth," 
1Chronicles12:10 Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth," 
1Chronicles12:11 Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh," 
1Chronicles12:12 Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth," 
1Chronicles12:13 Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh." 
1Chronicles12:13 Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh." 
1Chronicles12:14 These of the sons of Gad were chiefs of the army; he who was least was equal to one hundred and the greatest to one thousand. 
1Chronicles12:15 These are the ones who crossed the Jordan in the first month when it was overflowing all its banks and they made all those in the valleys flee, both to the east and to the west." 
1Chronicles12:16 Then some of the sons of Benjamin and Judah came to the stronghold to David. 
1Chronicles12:17 David went out before them, and he answered and said to them, “If you come peacefully to me to help me, my heart shall be united with you; but if to betray me to my adversaries, since there is no violence in my hands, may the God of our fathers look on it and reprove.”" 
1Chronicles12:18 And the Spirit clothed Amasai, who was the chief of the thirty, and he said, “We are yours, O David, And with you, O son of Jesse! Peace, peace to you, And peace to him who helps you; Indeed, your God helps you!” Then David received them and made them chiefs of the band." 
1Chronicles12:19 Now from Manasseh also some defected to David when he was about to go to battle with the Philistines against Saul. But they did not help them, for the lords of the Philistines after counsel sent him away, saying, “At the cost of our heads he may defect to his master Saul.”" 
1Chronicles12:20 As he went to Ziklag there defected to him from Manasseh: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu and Zillethai, chiefs of thousands who belonged to Manasseh." 
1Chronicles12:21 They helped David against the marauding band, for they were all mighty men of valor, and were commanders in the army." 
1Chronicles12:22 For day by day men came to David to help him, until there was a great camp like the camp of God." 
1Chronicles12:23 Now these are the numbers of the companies equipped for military duty, who came to David at Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the command of Yahweh." 
1Chronicles12:24 The sons of Judah who bore shield and spear were 6,800, equipped for military duty." 
1Chronicles12:25 Of the sons of Simeon, mighty men of valor for military duty, 7,100." 
1Chronicles12:26 Of the sons of Levi 4,600." 
1Chronicles12:27 Now Jehoiada was the leader of the house of Aaron, and with him were 3,700," 
1Chronicles12:28 also Zadok, a young man mighty of valor, and of his father’s house 22 commanders." 
1Chronicles12:29 Of the sons of Benjamin, Saul’s relatives, 3,000; for until now the greatest part of them had kept their allegiance to the house of Saul." 
1Chronicles12:30 Of the sons of Ephraim 20,800, mighty men of valor, men who had a name in their fathers’ households." 
1Chronicles12:31 Of the half-tribe of Manasseh 18,000, who were designated by name to come and make David king." 
1Chronicles12:32 Of the sons of Issachar, men who knew how to discern the times, to know what Israel should do, their chiefs were two hundred; and all their relatives were at their command." 
1Chronicles12:33 Of Zebulun, there were 50,000 who went out in the army, who could arrange themselves for battle with all kinds of weapons of war and helped David with an undivided heart." 
1Chronicles12:34 Of Naphtali there were 1,000 commanders, and with them 37,000 with large shield and spear." 
1Chronicles12:35 Of the Danites who could arrange themselves for battle, there were 28,600." 
1Chronicles12:36 Of Asher there were 40,000 who went out in the army to arrange themselves for battle." 
1Chronicles12:37 From the other side of the Jordan, of the Reubenites and the Gadites and of the half-tribe of Manasseh, there were 120,000 with all kinds of weapons for the army for battle." 
1Chronicles12:38 All these, being men of war who could draw up in battle lines, came to Hebron with their whole heart to make David king over all Israel; and all the rest also of Israel were of one heart to make David king." 
1Chronicles12:39 They were there with David three days, eating and drinking, for their relatives had prepared for them." 
1Chronicles12:40 Moreover those who were near to them, even as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought food on donkeys, camels, mules, and on oxen, great provisions of flour, fig cakes and bunches of raisins, wine, oil, oxen, and sheep. There was gladness indeed in Israel." 
1Chronicles13:1 Then David took counsel with the commanders of the thousands and the hundreds, even with every leader." 
1Chronicles13:2 And David said to all the assembly of Israel, “If it seems good to you, and if it is from Yahweh our God, let us send everywhere to our relatives who remain in all the lands of Israel, also to the priests and Levites who are with them in their cities with pasture lands, that they may gather with us;" 
1Chronicles13:3 and let us bring back the ark of our God to us, for we did not seek it in the days of Saul.”" 
1Chronicles13:4 Then all the assembly said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people." 
1Chronicles13:5 So David assembled all Israel together, from the Shihor of Egypt even to Lebo-hamath, to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim." 
1Chronicles13:6 And David and all Israel went up to Baalah, that is, to Kiriath-jearim, which belongs to Judah, to bring up from there the ark of God, Yahweh, who is enthroned above the cherubim, where His name is called." 
1Chronicles13:7 And they drove the ark of God on a new cart from the house of Abinadab, and Uzza and Ahio were leading the cart." 
1Chronicles13:8 Now David and all Israel were celebrating before God with all their strength, even with songs and with lyres, harps, tambourines, cymbals, and with trumpets." 
1Chronicles13:9 Then they came to the threshing floor of Chidon. And Uzza reached out with his hand to take hold of the ark, because the oxen nearly upset it." 
1Chronicles13:10 And the anger of Yahweh burned against Uzza, and He struck him down because he reached out with his hand to the ark; and he died there before God." 
1Chronicles13:11 And David became angry because of Yahweh’s breaking out against Uzza; and that place is called Perez-uzza to this day. 
1Chronicles13:12 So David was afraid of God that day, saying, “How can I bring the ark of God back to me?”" 
1Chronicles13:13 And David did not move the ark with him to the city of David, but took it aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite." 
1Chronicles13:14 Thus the ark of God remained with the household of Obed-edom in his house three months; and Yahweh blessed the household of Obed-edom with all that he had. 
1Chronicles14:1 Then Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David with cedar trees and craftsmen of walls and craftsmen of wood, to build a house for him." 
1Chronicles14:2 Thus David knew that Yahweh had established him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom was lifted up, for the sake of His people Israel." 
1Chronicles14:3 Then David took more wives at Jerusalem, and David became the father of more sons and daughters." 
1Chronicles14:4 These are the names of the children born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon," 
1Chronicles14:5 Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet," 
1Chronicles14:6 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia," 
1Chronicles14:7 Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphelet." 
1Chronicles14:8 Then the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, so all the Philistines went up to seek out David. And David heard of it and went out against them." 
1Chronicles14:9 Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim. 
1Chronicles14:10 Then David asked of God, saying, “Shall I go up against the Philistines? And will You give them into my hand?” And Yahweh said to him, “Go up, for I will give them into your hand.”" 
1Chronicles14:11 So they came up to Baal-perazim, and there David struck them down; and David said, “God has broken through my enemies by my hand, like the breakthrough of waters.” Therefore they named that place Baal-perazim." 
1Chronicles14:12 And they forsook their gods there; so David said the word, and they were burned with fire." 
1Chronicles14:13 Then the Philistines yet again made a raid in the valley. 
1Chronicles14:14 So David again asked of God, and God said to him, “You shall not go directly up after them; circle around from behind them and come at them in front of the balsam trees." 
1Chronicles14:15 And it will be that when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall go out to battle, for God will have gone out before you to strike the camp of the Philistines.”" 
1Chronicles14:16 Then David did just as God had commanded him, and they struck down the camp of the Philistines from Gibeon even as far as Gezer." 
1Chronicles14:17 Then the name of David went out into all the lands; and Yahweh brought the dread of him on all the nations. 
1Chronicles15:1 Then David made houses for himself in the city of David; and he prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it. 
1Chronicles15:2 And David said, “No one is to carry the ark of God but the Levites; for Yahweh chose them to carry the ark of God and to minister to Him forever.”" 
1Chronicles15:3 Then David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of Yahweh to its place which he had prepared for it. 
1Chronicles15:4 And David gathered together the sons of Aaron and the Levites: 
1Chronicles15:5 of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and 120 of his relatives;" 
1Chronicles15:6 of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and 220 of his relatives;" 
1Chronicles15:7 of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and 130 of his relatives;" 
1Chronicles15:7 of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and 130 of his relatives;" 
1Chronicles15:8 of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and 200 of his relatives;" 
1Chronicles15:9 of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and 80 of his relatives;" 
1Chronicles15:10 of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and 112 of his relatives." 
1Chronicles15:11 Then David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel and Amminadab," 
1Chronicles15:11 Then David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel and Amminadab," 
1Chronicles15:12 and said to them, “You are the heads of the fathers’ households of the Levites; set yourselves apart as holy, both you and your relatives, that you may bring up the ark of Yahweh, the God of Israel, to the place that I have prepared for it." 
1Chronicles15:13 Because you did not carry it at the first, Yahweh our God broke out against us, for we did not seek Him according to the legal judgment.”" 
1Chronicles15:14 So the priests and the Levites set themselves apart as holy to bring up the ark of Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
1Chronicles15:15 And the sons of the Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders with the poles thereon, as Moses had commanded according to the word of Yahweh." 
1Chronicles15:16 Then David said to the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their relatives the singers, with instruments of music, harps, lyres, loud-sounding cymbals, to raise a sound of gladness." 
1Chronicles15:17 So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel, and from his relatives, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and from the sons of Merari their relatives, Ethan the son of Kushaiah," 
1Chronicles15:17 So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel, and from his relatives, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and from the sons of Merari their relatives, Ethan the son of Kushaiah," 
1Chronicles15:18 and with them their relatives of the second rank, Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, the gatekeepers." 
1Chronicles15:18 and with them their relatives of the second rank, Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, the gatekeepers." 
1Chronicles15:19 So the singers, Heman, Asaph and Ethan were appointed to sound aloud cymbals of bronze;" 
1Chronicles15:20 and Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with harps set according to alamoth;" 
1Chronicles15:20 and Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with harps set according to alamoth;" 
1Chronicles15:21 and Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah, to lead with lyres set according to the sheminith." 
1Chronicles15:22 Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was in charge of the singing; he gave instruction in singing because he had understanding." 
1Chronicles15:23 Berechiah and Elkanah were gatekeepers for the ark. 
1Chronicles15:24 Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, blew the trumpets before the ark of God. Obed-edom and Jehiah also were gatekeepers for the ark." 
1Chronicles15:24 Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, blew the trumpets before the ark of God. Obed-edom and Jehiah also were gatekeepers for the ark." 
1Chronicles15:25 So it was David, with the elders of Israel and the commanders over thousands, who went to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the house of Obed-edom with gladness." 
1Chronicles15:26 Now this happened because God was helping the Levites who were carrying the ark of the covenant of Yahweh. And they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams. 
1Chronicles15:27 Now David was clothed with a robe of fine linen with all the Levites who were carrying the ark, as well as the singers and Chenaniah the leader of the singing with the singers. David also wore a linen ephod." 
1Chronicles15:28 Thus all Israel was bringing up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh with shouting, and with sound of the horn, with trumpets, with loud-sounding cymbals, with harps, and lyres." 
1Chronicles15:29 Now it happened as the ark of the covenant of Yahweh came to the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul looked out of the window and saw King David leaping and celebrating; and she despised him in her heart." 
1Chronicles16:1 And they brought in the ark of God and placed it inside the tent which David had pitched for it, and they brought burnt offerings and peace offerings near before God." 
1Chronicles16:2 Then David completed offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings. And he blessed the people in the name of Yahweh. 
1Chronicles16:3 And he apportioned to everyone of Israel, both men and women, to everyone a loaf of bread and a portion of meat and a raisin cake." 
1Chronicles16:4 And he made some of the Levites ministers before the ark of Yahweh, even to bring remembrance and to thank and praise Yahweh, the God of Israel:" 
1Chronicles16:5 Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, then Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with musical instruments, harps, lyres; also Asaph played loud-sounding cymbals," 
1Chronicles16:5 Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, then Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with musical instruments, harps, lyres; also Asaph played loud-sounding cymbals," 
1Chronicles16:6 and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests blew trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God. 
1Chronicles16:7 Then on that day David first assigned Asaph and his relatives to give thanks to Yahweh. 
1Chronicles16:8 Oh give thanks to Yahweh, call upon His name; Make known His acts among the peoples." 
1Chronicles16:9 Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; Muse on all His wondrous deeds." 
1Chronicles16:10 Boast in His holy name; Let the heart of those who seek Yahweh be glad. 
1Chronicles16:11 Inquire of Yahweh and His strength; Seek His face continually. 
1Chronicles16:12 Remember His wondrous deeds which He has done, His miraculous signs and the judgments uttered by His mouth," 
1Chronicles16:13 O seed of Israel His servant, O sons of Jacob, His chosen ones!" 
1Chronicles16:14 He is Yahweh our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 
1Chronicles16:15 Remember His covenant forever, The word which He commanded for a thousand generations," 
1Chronicles16:16 Which He cut with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac." 
1Chronicles16:17 Then He also confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel as an everlasting covenant," 
1Chronicles16:18 Saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan, As the portion of your inheritance,”" 
1Chronicles16:19 When you were only a few men in number, Of little account, and sojourners in it," 
1Chronicles16:20 And they wandered about from nation to nation, And from one kingdom to another people," 
1Chronicles16:21 He permitted no man to oppress them, And He reproved kings for their sakes," 
1Chronicles16:22 “Do not touch My anointed ones, And against My prophets do no evil.”" 
1Chronicles16:23 Sing to Yahweh, all the earth; Proclaim good news of His salvation from day to day." 
1Chronicles16:24 Recount His glory among the nations, His wondrous deeds among all the peoples." 
1Chronicles16:25 For great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised; And He is more fearsome than all gods." 
1Chronicles16:26 For all the gods of the peoples are idols, But Yahweh made the heavens." 
1Chronicles16:27 Splendor and majesty are before Him, Strength and joy are in His place." 
1Chronicles16:28 Ascribe to Yahweh, O families of the peoples, Ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength." 
1Chronicles16:29 Ascribe to Yahweh the glory of His name; Lift up an offering, and come before Him; Worship Yahweh in the splendor of holiness." 
1Chronicles16:30 Tremble before Him, all the earth; Indeed, the world is established, it will not be shaken." 
1Chronicles16:31 Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; And let them say among the nations, “Yahweh reigns.”" 
1Chronicles16:32 Let the sea roar, as well as its fullness; Let the field exult, and all that is in it." 
1Chronicles16:33 Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy before Yahweh; For He is coming to judge the earth. 
1Chronicles16:34 Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for He is good, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
1Chronicles16:35 Then say, “Save us, O God of our salvation, And gather us and deliver us from among the nations, To give thanks to Your holy name And revel in Your praise.”" 
1Chronicles16:36 Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, From everlasting to everlasting. Then all the people said, “Amen,” and praised Yahweh." 
1Chronicles16:37 So he left behind Asaph and his relatives there before the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to minister before the ark continually, as every day’s work required;" 
1Chronicles16:38 and Obed-edom with his 68 relatives; Obed-edom, also the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah as gatekeepers." 
1Chronicles16:39 Now he left behind Zadok the priest and his relatives the priests before the tabernacle of Yahweh in the high place, which was at Gibeon," 
1Chronicles16:40 to offer burnt offerings to Yahweh on the altar of burnt offering continually morning and evening, even according to all that is written in the law of Yahweh, which He commanded Israel." 
1Chronicles16:41 And with them were Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest who were chosen, who were designated by name, to give thanks to Yahweh, because His lovingkindness endures forever." 
1Chronicles16:42 And with them were Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those who should sound aloud, and with instruments for the songs of God, and the sons of Jeduthun for the gate." 
1Chronicles16:43 Then all the people went each to his house, and David returned to bless his household." 
1Chronicles17:1 Now it happened when David inhabited his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, “Behold, I inhabit a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of Yahweh is under tent curtains.”" 
1Chronicles17:2 So Nathan said to David, “Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you.”" 
1Chronicles17:3 Now it happened in the same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying," 
1Chronicles17:4 “Go and say to David My servant, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “You shall not build Me a house to inhabit;" 
1Chronicles17:5 for I have not inhabited a house since the day that I brought up Israel to this day, but I have been from tent to tent and from one dwelling place to another." 
1Chronicles17:6 Wherever I have gone about with all Israel, did I speak a word with even one of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd My people, saying, ‘Why have you not built Me a house of cedar?’”’" 
1Chronicles17:7 So now, thus shall you say to My servant David, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “I Myself took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be ruler over My people Israel." 
1Chronicles17:8 And I have been with you wherever you have gone, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make you a name like the name of the great men who are on the earth." 
1Chronicles17:9 And I will appoint a place for My people Israel and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place and not be disturbed again; and the unrighteous will not waste them anymore as formerly," 
1Chronicles17:10 even from the day that I commanded judges to be over My people Israel. And I will subdue all your enemies. And I tell you that Yahweh will build a house for you. 
1Chronicles17:11 And it will be that when your days are fulfilled to go to be with your fathers, I will raise up one of your seed after you, who will be of your sons; and I will establish his kingdom." 
1Chronicles17:12 He shall build for Me a house, and I will establish his throne forever." 
1Chronicles17:13 I will be a father to him and he will be a son to Me; and I will not remove My lovingkindness from him, as I removed it from him who was before you." 
1Chronicles17:14 But I will cause him to stand in My house and in My kingdom forever, and his throne shall be established forever.”’”" 
1Chronicles17:15 According to all these words and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David." 
1Chronicles17:16 Then David the king went in and sat before Yahweh and said, “Who am I, O Yahweh God, and what is my house that You have brought me this far?" 
1Chronicles17:17 And this was a small thing in Your eyes, O God; but You have spoken of the house of Your slave concerning the distant future, and have regarded me according to the standard of a man of high degree, O Yahweh God." 
1Chronicles17:18 Again what more can David say to You concerning the glory bestowed on Your slave? You know Your slave. 
1Chronicles17:19 O Yahweh, for the sake of Your slave, and according to Your own heart, You have done all this greatness, to make known all these great things." 
1Chronicles17:20 O Yahweh, there is none like You, and there is no God besides You, according to all that we have heard with our ears." 
1Chronicles17:21 And what one nation in the earth is like Your people Israel, whom God went to redeem for Himself as a people, to make You a name by great and awesome things, in driving out nations from before Your people, whom You redeemed out of Egypt?" 
1Chronicles17:22 Yet You gave Your people Israel to be Your own people forever, and You, O Yahweh, have become their God." 
1Chronicles17:23 “So now, O Yahweh, let the word that You have spoken concerning Your slave and concerning his house endure forever, and do as You have spoken," 
1Chronicles17:24 that Your name endure and be magnified forever, by saying, ‘Yahweh of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel; and the house of David Your servant is established before You.’" 
1Chronicles17:25 For You, O my God, have revealed in the hearing of Your slave that You will build for him a house; therefore Your slave has found courage to pray before You." 
1Chronicles17:26 So now, O Yahweh, You are God, and You have promised this good thing to Your slave." 
1Chronicles17:27 So now, You have been pleased to bless the house of Your slave, that it may be forever before You. For You, O Yahweh, have blessed, and it is blessed forever.”" 
1Chronicles18:1 Now it happened afterwards, that David struck the Philistines and subdued them and took Gath and its towns from the hand of the Philistines." 
1Chronicles18:2 He also struck Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David, bringing tribute." 
1Chronicles18:3 Then David struck Hadadezer king of Zobah as far as Hamath, as he went to set up his power at the Euphrates River." 
1Chronicles18:4 And David captured from him 1,000 chariots and 7,000 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers, and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but left enough of them for 100 chariots." 
1Chronicles18:5 Then the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah. And David struck down 22,000 men of the Arameans." 
1Chronicles18:6 Then David placed garrisons among the Arameans of Damascus; and the Arameans became servants to David, bringing tribute. And Yahweh granted salvation to David wherever he went." 
1Chronicles18:7 And David took the small shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles18:8 Also from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David took a very large amount of bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze sea and the pillars and the bronze utensils." 
1Chronicles18:9 Then Tou king of Hamath heard that David had struck down all the military force of Hadadezer king of Zobah," 
1Chronicles18:10 so he sent Hadoram his son to King David to greet him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and struck him down; for Hadadezer had been at war with Tou. And Hadoram brought all kinds of articles of gold and silver and bronze." 
1Chronicles18:11 King David also set these apart as holy to Yahweh with the silver and the gold which he had carried away from all the nations: from Edom, Moab, the sons of Ammon, the Philistines, and from Amalek." 
1Chronicles18:12 Moreover, Abishai the son of Zeruiah smote 18,000 of Edom in the Valley of Salt." 
1Chronicles18:13 Then he placed garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Yahweh granted salvation to David wherever he went." 
1Chronicles18:14 So David reigned over all Israel; and he was doing justice and righteousness for all his people. 
1Chronicles18:15 Now Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;" 
1Chronicles18:16 and Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar were priests, and Shavsha was scribe;" 
1Chronicles18:17 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and the sons of David were chiefs at the king’s side." 
1Chronicles19:1 Now it happened afterwards, that Nahash the king of the sons of Ammon died, and his son became king in his place." 
1Chronicles19:2 So David said, “I will show lovingkindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, because his father showed lovingkindness to me.” So David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. And David’s servants came into the land of the sons of Ammon to Hanun to comfort him." 
1Chronicles19:3 But the princes of the sons of Ammon said to Hanun, “In your eyes, is David honoring your father because he has sent comforters to you? Have not his servants come to you to search and to overthrow and to spy out the land?”" 
1Chronicles19:4 So Hanun took David’s servants and shaved them and cut off their garments in the middle as far as their hips, and sent them away." 
1Chronicles19:5 Then certain persons went and told David about the men. And he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly dishonored. And the king said, “Stay at Jericho until your beards grow, and then return.”" 
1Chronicles19:6 Then the sons of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David. So Hanun and the sons of Ammon sent 1,000 talents of silver to hire for themselves chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, from Aram-maacah, and from Zobah." 
1Chronicles19:7 So they hired for themselves 32,000 chariots, and the king of Maacah and his people, who came and camped before Medeba. And the sons of Ammon gathered together from their cities and came to battle." 
1Chronicles19:8 Then David heard of it, and he sent Joab and all the army, the mighty men." 
1Chronicles19:9 And the sons of Ammon came out and arranged themselves for battle at the entrance of the city. But the kings who had come were by themselves in the field. 
1Chronicles19:10 Then Joab saw that the battle was set against him in front and in the rear. So he chose from all the choice men of Israel and they arranged themselves to meet the Arameans. 
1Chronicles19:11 But the remainder of the people he put in the hand of Abshai his brother; and they arranged themselves to meet the sons of Ammon. 
1Chronicles19:12 And he said, “If the Arameans are too strong for me, then you shall save me; but if the sons of Ammon are too strong for you, then I will save you." 
1Chronicles19:13 Be strong, and let us show strength for the sake of our people and for the cities of our God; and may Yahweh do what is good in His sight.”" 
1Chronicles19:14 So Joab and the people who were with him drew near before the Arameans for the battle, and they fled before him." 
1Chronicles19:15 Now the sons of Ammon saw that the Arameans fled. So they themselves also fled before Abshai his brother and came into the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles19:16 Then the Arameans saw that they had been defeated by Israel. So they sent messengers and brought out the Arameans who were beyond the River, and Shophach the commander of the army of Hadadezer led them." 
1Chronicles19:17 And it was told to David, so he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan, and came upon them and arranged for battle against them. So David arranged them in battle to meet the Arameans. And they fought against him." 
1Chronicles19:18 But the Arameans fled before Israel, and David killed of the Arameans 7,000 charioteers and 40,000 foot soldiers, and put to death Shophach the commander of the army." 
1Chronicles19:19 Then the servants of Hadadezer saw that they were defeated by Israel. So they made peace with David and served him. And the Arameans were not willing to save the sons of Ammon anymore. 
1Chronicles20:1 Now it happened in the spring, at the time when kings go out to battle, that Joab led out the force of the military and brought the land of the sons of Ammon to ruin, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem. And Joab struck Rabbah and tore it down." 
1Chronicles20:2 Then David took the crown of their king from his head; and he found it to weigh a talent of gold, and in it was a precious stone; and it was placed on David’s head. And he brought out the spoil of the city in a very great amount." 
1Chronicles20:3 He also brought out the people who were in it and made them work with saws and with sharp iron instruments and with axes. And thus David used to do to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles20:4 Now it happened afterwards, that war broke out at Gezer with the Philistines; then Sibbecai the Hushathite struck down Sippai, one among those born of the giants, and they were subdued." 
1Chronicles20:5 And there was war with the Philistines again, and Elhanan the son of Jair struck down Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like a weaver’s beam." 
1Chronicles20:6 Then there was war at Gath again, and there was a man of great stature who had twenty-four fingers and toes, six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot; and he also had been born to the giants." 
1Chronicles20:7 And he reproached Israel, so Jonathan the son of Shimea, David’s brother, struck him down." 
1Chronicles20:8 These were born to the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants." 
1Chronicles21:1 Then Satan stood up against Israel and incited David to number Israel. 
1Chronicles21:2 So David said to Joab and to the princes of the people, “Go, count Israel from Beersheba even to Dan, and bring me word that I may know their total count.”" 
1Chronicles21:3 But Joab said, “May Yahweh add to His people a hundred times as many as they are! But, my lord the king, are they not all my lord’s servants? Why does my lord seek this thing? Why should he be a cause of guilt to Israel?”" 
1Chronicles21:4 Nevertheless, the king’s word stood strong against Joab. So, Joab went out and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles21:5 And Joab gave the total count of the census of the people to David. And all Israel were 1,100,000 men who drew the sword; and Judah was 470,000 men who drew the sword." 
1Chronicles21:6 But he did not number Levi and Benjamin among them, for the king’s command was abominable to Joab." 
1Chronicles21:7 And this thing was displeasing in the sight of God, so He struck Israel." 
1Chronicles21:8 Then David said to God, “I have sinned greatly, in that I have done this thing. But now, please take away the iniquity of Your slave, for I have acted very foolishly.”" 
1Chronicles21:9 And Yahweh spoke to Gad, David’s seer, saying," 
1Chronicles21:10 “Go and speak to David, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “I am offering you three things; choose for yourself one of them, and I will do that to you.”’”" 
1Chronicles21:11 So Gad came to David and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Take for yourself" 
1Chronicles21:12 either three years of famine, or three months to be swept away before your adversaries, while the sword of your enemies overtakes you, or else three days of the sword of Yahweh, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of Yahweh destroying throughout all the territory of Israel.’ So now, see what word I should return to Him who sent me.”" 
1Chronicles21:13 Then David said to Gad, “I am in great distress. Let me now fall into the hand of Yahweh, for His compassions are exceedingly abundant. But do not let me fall into the hand of man.”" 
1Chronicles21:14 So Yahweh sent a pestilence against Israel; and 70,000 men of Israel fell." 
1Chronicles21:15 And God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it; but as he was about to destroy it, Yahweh saw and relented concerning the calamity, and said to the destroying angel, “It is enough! Now relax your hand.” And the angel of Yahweh was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite." 
1Chronicles21:16 Then David lifted up his eyes and saw the angel of Yahweh standing between earth and heaven, with his drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, covered with sackcloth, fell on their faces." 
1Chronicles21:17 And David said to God, “Is it not I who commanded to number the people? Indeed, I am the one who has sinned and done a great evil; but these sheep, what have they done? O Yahweh my God, please let Your hand be against me and my father’s household, but not against Your people that they should be plagued.”" 
1Chronicles21:18 Then the angel of Yahweh said to Gad to say to David, that David should go up and erect an altar to Yahweh on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite." 
1Chronicles21:19 So David went up at the word of Gad, which he spoke in the name of Yahweh." 
1Chronicles21:20 Now Ornan turned back and saw the angel, and his four sons who were with him hid themselves. And Ornan was threshing wheat." 
1Chronicles21:21 Then David came to Ornan, and Ornan looked and saw David, and went out from the threshing floor and bowed his face to the ground before David." 
1Chronicles21:22 Then David said to Ornan, “Give me the site of this threshing floor, that I may build on it an altar to Yahweh; for the full price you shall give it to me, that the plague may be checked from being upon the people.”" 
1Chronicles21:23 And Ornan said to David, “Take it for yourself; and let my lord the king do what is good in his sight. See, I will give the oxen for the burnt offerings and the threshing sledges for the wood and the wheat for the grain offering; I will give everything.”" 
1Chronicles21:24 However, King David said to Ornan, “No, but I will surely buy it for the full price; for I will not lift up what is yours to Yahweh, or offer a burnt offering which costs me nothing.”" 
1Chronicles21:25 So David gave Ornan 600 shekels of gold by weight for the site. 
1Chronicles21:26 Then David built there an altar to Yahweh and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. And he called to Yahweh and He answered him with fire from heaven on the altar of burnt offering. 
1Chronicles21:27 Then Yahweh spoke to the angel, and he returned his sword to its sheath." 
1Chronicles21:28 At that time, when David saw that Yahweh had answered him on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he sacrificed there." 
1Chronicles21:29 Now the tabernacle of Yahweh, which Moses had made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering were in the high place at Gibeon at that time." 
1Chronicles21:30 But David could not go before it to inquire of God, for he was terrified by the sword of the angel of Yahweh." 
1Chronicles22:1 Then David said, “This is the house of Yahweh God, and this is the altar of burnt offering for Israel.”" 
1Chronicles22:2 So David said to gather the sojourners who were in the land of Israel, and he appointed stonecutters to hew out stones to build the house of God." 
1Chronicles22:3 And David prepared large quantities of iron to make the nails for the doors of the gates and for the clamps, and more bronze than could be weighed;" 
1Chronicles22:4 and timbers of cedar logs beyond number, for the Sidonians and Tyrians brought large quantities of cedar timber to David." 
1Chronicles22:5 And David said, “My son Solomon is young and inexperienced, and the house that is to be built for Yahweh shall be highly exalted, for a name and beauty throughout all lands. Therefore now I will make preparation for it.” So David made ample preparations before his death." 
1Chronicles22:6 Then he called for his son Solomon, and commanded him to build a house for Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
1Chronicles22:7 And David said to Solomon, “My son, I had it within my heart to build a house to the name of Yahweh my God." 
1Chronicles22:8 But the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, ‘You have shed much blood and have waged great wars; you shall not build a house for My name, because you have shed so much blood on the earth before Me." 
1Chronicles22:9 Behold, a son will be born to you, who shall be a man of rest; and I will give him rest from all his enemies on every side; for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quiet to Israel in his days." 
1Chronicles22:10 He shall build a house for My name, and he shall be a son to Me and I will be a father to him; and I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel forever.’" 
1Chronicles22:11 Now, my son, Yahweh be with you that you may be successful, and build the house of Yahweh your God just as He has spoken concerning you." 
1Chronicles22:12 Only Yahweh give you insight and understanding, and give you command over Israel, so that you may keep the law of Yahweh your God." 
1Chronicles22:13 Then you will succeed, if you are careful to do the statutes and the judgments which Yahweh commanded Moses concerning Israel. Be strong and courageous, do not fear nor be dismayed." 
1Chronicles22:14 Now behold, with great pains I have prepared for the house of Yahweh 100,000 talents of gold and 1,000,000 talents of silver, and bronze and iron beyond weight, for they are in great quantity; also timber and stone I have prepared, and you may add to them." 
1Chronicles22:15 Moreover, there are many of those who do the work with you, hewers of stone and craftsmen of stone and wood, and all men who are wise in every kind of work." 
1Chronicles22:16 Of the gold, the silver and the bronze and the iron there is no number. Arise and work, and may Yahweh be with you.”" 
1Chronicles22:17 David also commanded all the officials of Israel to help his son Solomon, saying," 
1Chronicles22:18 “Is not Yahweh your God with you? And has He not given you rest on every side? For He has given the inhabitants of the land into my hand, and the land is subdued before Yahweh and before His people." 
1Chronicles22:19 Now give your heart and your soul to seek Yahweh your God; arise, therefore, and build the sanctuary of Yahweh God, so that you may bring the ark of the covenant of Yahweh and the holy vessels of God into the house that is to be built for the name of Yahweh.”" 
1Chronicles23:1 Now David became old and full of days, and he made his son Solomon king over Israel." 
1Chronicles23:2 And he gathered together all the leaders of Israel with the priests and the Levites. 
1Chronicles23:3 And the Levites were numbered from thirty years old and upward, and their number by census of men was 38,000." 
1Chronicles23:4 Of these, 24,000 were to direct the work of the house of Yahweh; and 6,000 were officers and judges," 
1Chronicles23:5 and 4,000 were gatekeepers, and 4,000 were praising Yahweh with the instruments which David made for giving praise." 
1Chronicles23:6 And David divided them into divisions according to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari." 
1Chronicles23:7 Of the Gershonites were Ladan and Shimei. 
1Chronicles23:8 The sons of Ladan were Jehiel the first and Zetham and Joel, three." 
1Chronicles23:8 The sons of Ladan were Jehiel the first and Zetham and Joel, three." 
1Chronicles23:9 The sons of Shimei were Shelomoth and Haziel and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers’ households of Ladan." 
1Chronicles23:10 The sons of Shimei were Jahath, Zina, Jeush, and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei." 
1Chronicles23:11 Jahath was the first and Zizah the second; but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, so they became a father’s household, one unit." 
1Chronicles23:12 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four." 
1Chronicles23:13 The sons of Amram were Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was separated in order to sanctify him as most holy, he and his sons forever, to offer offerings up in smoke before Yahweh, to minister to Him and to bless in His name forever." 
1Chronicles23:14 But as for Moses the man of God, his sons were named among the tribe of Levi." 
1Chronicles23:15 The sons of Moses were Gershom and Eliezer. 
1Chronicles23:16 The son of Gershom was Shebuel the chief. 
1Chronicles23:17 The son of Eliezer was Rehabiah the chief; and Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many." 
1Chronicles23:18 The son of Izhar was Shelomith the chief. 
1Chronicles23:19 The sons of Hebron were Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third and Jekameam the fourth." 
1Chronicles23:20 The sons of Uzziel were Micah the first and Isshiah the second. 
1Chronicles23:20 The sons of Uzziel were Micah the first and Isshiah the second. 
1Chronicles23:21 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli were Eleazar and Kish. 
1Chronicles23:22 And Eleazar died and had no sons, but daughters only, so their brothers, the sons of Kish, took them up as wives." 
1Chronicles23:23 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth, three." 
1Chronicles23:24 These were the sons of Levi according to their fathers’ households, even the heads of the fathers’ households of those of them who were counted, in the number of names by their census, doing the work for the service of the house of Yahweh, from twenty years old and upward." 
1Chronicles23:25 For David said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, has given rest to His people, and He dwells in Jerusalem forever." 
1Chronicles23:26 Also, the Levites will no longer need to carry the tabernacle and all its furnishings for its service.”" 
1Chronicles23:27 For by the last words of David the sons of Levi were numbered from twenty years old and upward. 
1Chronicles23:28 For their station is to be on hand for the sons of Aaron with the service of the house of Yahweh, in the courts and in the chambers and in the cleansing of all holy things, even the work of the service of the house of God," 
1Chronicles23:29 and with the showbread, and the fine flour for a grain offering, and unleavened wafers, or what is made on the griddle, or what is well stirred, and all measures of volume and size." 
1Chronicles23:30 And they are to stand every morning to thank and to praise Yahweh, and likewise at evening," 
1Chronicles23:31 and to offer all burnt offerings to Yahweh, on the sabbaths, the new moons and the appointed times in the number set by the judgments concerning them, continually before Yahweh." 
1Chronicles23:32 Thus they shall keep responsibility of the tent of meeting, and responsibility of the holy place, and responsibility of the sons of Aaron their relatives, for the service of the house of Yahweh." 
1Chronicles24:1 Now the divisions of the sons of Aaron were these: the sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar." 
1Chronicles24:2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no sons. So Eleazar and Ithamar ministered as priests. 
1Chronicles24:3 And David, with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their assignments for their service." 
1Chronicles24:4 And more chief men were found from the sons of Eleazar than the sons of Ithamar, so they divided them thus: there were sixteen heads of fathers’ households of the sons of Eleazar and eight of the sons of Ithamar, according to their fathers’ households." 
1Chronicles24:5 Thus they were divided by lot, the one as the other; for they were leaders for the sanctuary and leaders for God, both from the sons of Eleazar and the sons of Ithamar." 
1Chronicles24:6 Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel the scribe, from the Levites, wrote them down in the presence of the king, the princes, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the fathers’ households of the priests and of the Levites; one father’s household taken for Eleazar and one taken for Ithamar." 
1Chronicles24:7 Now the first lot came out for Jehoiarib, the second for Jedaiah," 
1Chronicles24:8 the third for Harim, the fourth for Seorim," 
1Chronicles24:9 the fifth for Malchijah, the sixth for Mijamin," 
1Chronicles24:10 the seventh for Hakkoz, the eighth for Abijah," 
1Chronicles24:11 the ninth for Jeshua, the tenth for Shecaniah," 
1Chronicles24:12 the eleventh for Eliashib, the twelfth for Jakim," 
1Chronicles24:13 the thirteenth for Huppah, the fourteenth for Jeshebeab," 
1Chronicles24:14 the fifteenth for Bilgah, the sixteenth for Immer," 
1Chronicles24:15 the seventeenth for Hezir, the eighteenth for Happizzez," 
1Chronicles24:16 the nineteenth for Pethahiah, the twentieth for Jehezkel," 
1Chronicles24:17 the twenty-first for Jachin, the twenty-second for Gamul," 
1Chronicles24:18 the twenty-third for Delaiah, the twenty-fourth for Maaziah." 
1Chronicles24:19 These were their assignments for their service when they came in to the house of Yahweh according to the legal judgment rendered to them by the hand of Aaron their father, just as Yahweh, the God of Israel, had commanded him." 
1Chronicles24:20 Now for the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah." 
1Chronicles24:21 Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah the first." 
1Chronicles24:22 Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath." 
1Chronicles24:23 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth." 
1Chronicles24:24 The sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir." 
1Chronicles24:24 The sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir." 
1Chronicles24:25 The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah." 
1Chronicles24:25 The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah." 
1Chronicles24:25 The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah." 
1Chronicles24:26 The sons of Merari, Mahli and Mushi; the sons of Jaaziah, Beno." 
1Chronicles24:27 The sons of Merari: by Jaaziah were Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri." 
1Chronicles24:28 By Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons." 
1Chronicles24:29 By Kish: the sons of Kish, Jerahmeel." 
1Chronicles24:30 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites according to their fathers’ households." 
1Chronicles24:31 These also cast lots alongside their relatives the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers’ households of the priests and of the Levites—the head of fathers’ households alongside those of his younger brother." 
1Chronicles25:1 Moreover, David and the commanders of the army separated for the service some of the sons of Asaph and of Heman and of Jeduthun, who were to prophesy with lyres, harps, and cymbals; and the number of those who performed their service was:" 
1Chronicles25:2 Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asharelah; the sons of Asaph were under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king." 
1Chronicles25:3 Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the direction of their father Jeduthun with the harp, who prophesied in giving thanks and praising Yahweh." 
1Chronicles25:4 Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth." 
1Chronicles25:5 All these were the sons of Heman the king’s seer to exalt him according to the words of God. So God gave fourteen sons and three daughters to Heman. 
1Chronicles25:6 All these were under the direction of their father to sing in the house of Yahweh, with cymbals, harps, and lyres, for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the direction of the king." 
1Chronicles25:7 And their number who were trained in singing to Yahweh, with their relatives, all who were skillful, was 288." 
1Chronicles25:8 They cast lots for their responsibilities, each alongside the other, the small as well as the great, the teacher as well as the pupil." 
1Chronicles25:9 Now the first lot came out for Asaph to Joseph, the second for Gedaliah, he with his relatives and sons were twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:10 the third to Zaccur, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:11 the fourth to Izri, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:12 the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:13 the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:14 the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:15 the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:16 the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:17 the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:18 the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:19 the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:20 for the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:21 for the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:22 for the fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:23 for the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:24 for the seventeenth to Joshbekashah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:25 for the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:26 for the nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:27 for the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:28 for the twenty-first to Hothir, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:29 for the twenty-second to Giddalti, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:30 for the twenty-third to Mahazioth, his sons and his relatives, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:31 for the twenty-fourth to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his relatives, twelve." 
1Chronicles26:1 For the divisions of the gatekeepers there were of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph." 
1Chronicles26:2 Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth," 
1Chronicles26:2 Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth," 
1Chronicles26:3 Elam the fifth, Johanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh." 
1Chronicles26:4 Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth," 
1Chronicles26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh and Peullethai the eighth; God had indeed blessed him." 
1Chronicles26:6 Also to his son Shemaiah sons were born who ruled over the house of their father, for they were mighty men of valor." 
1Chronicles26:7 The sons of Shemaiah were Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad, whose brothers, Elihu and Semachiah, were men of valor." 
1Chronicles26:8 All these were of the sons of Obed-edom; they and their sons and their relatives were valiant men with strength for the service, sixty-two from Obed-edom." 
1Chronicles26:9 Meshelemiah had sons and relatives, eighteen men of valor." 
1Chronicles26:10 Also Hosah, one of the sons of Merari had sons: Shimri the first (although he was not the firstborn, his father made him first)," 
1Chronicles26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all the sons and relatives of Hosah were thirteen." 
1Chronicles26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all the sons and relatives of Hosah were thirteen." 
1Chronicles26:12 To these divisions of the gatekeepers, the chief men, were given responsibilities like their relatives to minister in the house of Yahweh." 
1Chronicles26:13 And they cast lots, the small and the great alike, according to their fathers’ households, for every gate." 
1Chronicles26:14 And the lot to the east fell to Shelemiah. Then they cast lots for his son Zechariah, a counselor with insight, and his lot came out to the north." 
1Chronicles26:14 And the lot to the east fell to Shelemiah. Then they cast lots for his son Zechariah, a counselor with insight, and his lot came out to the north." 
1Chronicles26:15 For Obed-edom it fell to the south, and to his sons went the house of storerooms." 
1Chronicles26:16 For Shuppim and Hosah it was to the west, by the gate of Shallecheth, on the ascending highway. Guard corresponded to guard." 
1Chronicles26:17 On the east there were six Levites, on the north four daily, on the south four daily, and at the storerooms two by two." 
1Chronicles26:18 At the Parbar on the west there were four at the highway and two at the Parbar. 
1Chronicles26:19 These were the divisions of the gatekeepers of the sons of Korah and of the sons of Merari. 
1Chronicles26:20 As for the Levites, Ahijhah was over the treasures of the house of God and of the treasures of the holy gifts." 
1Chronicles26:21 The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, namely, the Jehielites, were the heads of the fathers’ households, belonging to Ladan the Gershonite." 
1Chronicles26:22 The sons of Jehieli, Zetham, and Joel his brother, were over the treasures of the house of Yahweh." 
1Chronicles26:22 The sons of Jehieli, Zetham, and Joel his brother, were over the treasures of the house of Yahweh." 
1Chronicles26:23 As for the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites and the Uzzielites," 
1Chronicles26:24 Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was officer over the treasures." 
1Chronicles26:25 And his relatives by Eliezer were Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zichri his son, and Shelomoth his son." 
1Chronicles26:26 This Shelomoth and his relatives were over all the treasures of the holy gifts which King David and the heads of the fathers’ households, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and the commanders of the army, had set apart as holy." 
1Chronicles26:27 They set apart as holy part of what was won in battles and part of the spoil to repair the house of Yahweh. 
1Chronicles26:28 And all that Samuel the seer had set apart as holy and Saul the son of Kish, Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, everyone who had set apart anything as holy, all of this was in the care of Shelomoth and his relatives." 
1Chronicles26:29 As for the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were assigned to the outside work for Israel, as officers and judges." 
1Chronicles26:30 As for the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his relatives, 1,700 men of valor, were over the administration of Israel across the Jordan to the west, for all the work of Yahweh and the service of the king." 
1Chronicles26:31 As for the Hebronites, Jerijah the chief (these Hebronites were investigated according to their generations and fathers’ households, in the fortieth year of David’s reign, and mighty men of valor were found among them at Jazer of Gilead)" 
1Chronicles26:32 and his relatives, men of valor, were 2,700 in number, heads of fathers’ households. And King David made them overseers of the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of the Manassites concerning all the affairs of God and of the king." 
1Chronicles27:1 Now this is the total count of the sons of Israel, the heads of fathers’ households, the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who ministered to the king in each matter of the divisions which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, each division numbering 24,000:" 
1Chronicles27:2 Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel was over the first division for the first month; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:3 He was from the sons of Perez, and was chief of all the commanders of the army for the first month." 
1Chronicles27:4 Dodai the Ahohite and his division were over the division for the second month, Mikloth being the chief officer; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:5 The third commander of the army for the third month was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, as chief; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:6 This Benaiah was the mighty man of the thirty, and was over thirty; and over his division was Ammizabad his son." 
1Chronicles27:7 The fourth for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:8 The fifth for the fifth month was the commander Shamhuth the Izrahite; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:9 The sixth for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:10 The seventh for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:11 The eighth for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite of the Zerahites; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:12 The ninth for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anathothite of the Benjamites; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:13 The tenth for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite of the Zerahites; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:14 The eleventh for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:15 The twelfth for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite of Othniel; and in his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:16 Now those over the tribes of Israel: chief officer for the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri; for the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maacah;" 
1Chronicles27:17 for Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; for Aaron, Zadok;" 
1Chronicles27:18 for Judah, Elihu, one of David’s brothers; for Issachar, Omri the son of Michael;" 
1Chronicles27:19 for Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; for Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel;" 
1Chronicles27:19 for Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; for Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel;" 
1Chronicles27:20 for the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; for the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah;" 
1Chronicles27:20 for the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; for the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah;" 
1Chronicles27:21 for the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; for Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner;" 
1Chronicles27:21 for the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; for Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner;" 
1Chronicles27:22 for Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel." 
1Chronicles27:23 But David did not take up a count of those twenty years of age and under, because Yahweh had said He would multiply Israel as the stars of heaven." 
1Chronicles27:24 Joab the son of Zeruiah had begun to number them, but did not finish; and because of this, wrath came upon Israel, and this count was not included in the total count of the chronicles of King David." 
1Chronicles27:25 Now Azmaveth the son of Adiel was over the king’s storehouses. And Jonathan the son of Uzziah was over the storehouses in the country, in the cities, in the villages and in the towers." 
1Chronicles27:26 Ezri the son of Chelub was over the workers of the field who cultivated the soil. 
1Chronicles27:27 Shimei the Ramathite was over the vineyards; and Zabdi the Shiphmite was over the produce of the vineyards stored in the wine cellars. 
1Chronicles27:28 Baal-hanan the Gederite was over the olive and sycamore trees in the Shephelah; and Joash had charge of the stores of oil. 
1Chronicles27:29 Shitrai the Sharonite was over the cattle which were grazing in Sharon; and Shaphat the son of Adlai was over the cattle in the valleys. 
1Chronicles27:30 Obil the Ishmaelite was over the camels; and Jehdeiah the Meronothite was over the donkeys. 
1Chronicles27:31 Jaziz the Hagrite was over the flocks. All these were officials over the possessions which belonged to King David. 
1Chronicles27:32 Also Jonathan, David’s uncle, was a counselor, a man of understanding, and a scribe; and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king’s sons." 
1Chronicles27:33 Ahithophel was counselor to the king; and Hushai the Archite was the king’s friend. 
1Chronicles27:34 Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar succeeded Ahithophel; and Joab was the commander of the king’s army." 
1Chronicles28:1 And David assembled at Jerusalem all the commanders of Israel, the commanders of the tribes, and the commanders of the divisions that ministered to the king, and the commanders of thousands, and the commanders of hundreds, and the commanders over all the property and livestock belonging to the king and his sons, with the officials and the mighty men, even all the mighty men of valor." 
1Chronicles28:2 Then King David rose to his feet and said, “Listen to me, my brothers and my people; I had it within my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of Yahweh and for the footstool of the feet of our God. So I had made preparations to build it." 
1Chronicles28:3 But God said to me, ‘You shall not build a house for My name because you are a man of war and have shed blood.’" 
1Chronicles28:4 Yet, Yahweh, the God of Israel, chose me from all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever. For He has chosen Judah to be a ruler; and in the house of Judah, my father’s house, and among the sons of my father He took pleasure in me to make me king over all Israel." 
1Chronicles28:5 Now of all my sons (for Yahweh has given me many sons), He has chosen my son Solomon to sit on the throne of the kingdom of Yahweh over Israel." 
1Chronicles28:6 And He said to me, ‘Your son Solomon is the one who shall build My house and My courts; for I have chosen him to be a son to Me, and I will be a father to him." 
1Chronicles28:7 And I will establish his kingdom forever if he will be strong to do My commandments and My judgments, as is done now.’" 
1Chronicles28:8 So now, in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of Yahweh, and in the hearing of our God, keep and seek after all the commandments of Yahweh your God so that you may possess the good land and cause your sons after you to inherit it forever." 
1Chronicles28:9 “As for you, my son Solomon, know the God of your father, and serve Him with a whole heart and a delighted soul; for Yahweh searches all hearts, and understands every intent of the thoughts. If you seek Him, He will be found; but if you forsake Him, He will reject you forever." 
1Chronicles28:10 See now, for Yahweh has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary; be strong and act.”" 
1Chronicles28:11 Then David gave to his son Solomon the pattern of the porch of the temple, its buildings, its storehouses, its upper rooms, its inner rooms, and the room for the mercy seat;" 
1Chronicles28:12 and the pattern of all that he had in mind, for the courts of the house of Yahweh, and for all the surrounding chambers, for the treasuries of the house of God, and for the treasuries of the holy things;" 
1Chronicles28:13 also for the divisions of the priests and the Levites and for all the work of the service of the house of Yahweh and for all the utensils of service in the house of Yahweh; 
1Chronicles28:14 for the golden utensils, the weight of gold for all utensils for every kind of service; for the silver utensils, the weight of silver for all utensils for every kind of service;" 
1Chronicles28:15 and the weight of gold for the golden lampstands and their golden lamps, with the weight of each lampstand and its lamps; and the weight of silver for the silver lampstands, with the weight of each lampstand and its lamps according to the service of each lampstand;" 
1Chronicles28:16 and the gold by weight for the tables of showbread, for each table; and silver for the silver tables;" 
1Chronicles28:17 and the flesh hooks, the bowls, and the jars of pure gold; and for the golden bowls with the weight for each bowl; and for the silver bowls with the weight for each bowl;" 
1Chronicles28:18 and for the altar of incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the pattern of the chariot, even the cherubim that spread out their wings and covered the ark of the covenant of Yahweh." 
1Chronicles28:19 “All this,” said David, “has been granted to me as insight in writing by the hand of Yahweh, all the details of this pattern.”" 
1Chronicles28:20 Then David said to his son Solomon, “Be strong and courageous, and act; do not fear nor be dismayed, for Yahweh God, my God, is with you. He will not fail you nor forsake you until all the work for the service of the house of Yahweh is completed." 
1Chronicles28:21 Now behold, there are the divisions of the priests and the Levites for all the service of the house of God, and every willing man with wisdom will be with you in all the work for all the service. The officials also and all the people will be entirely at your command.”" 
1Chronicles29:1 Then King David said to the entire assembly, “My son Solomon, whom alone God has chosen, is still young and inexperienced and the work is great; for the temple is not for man, but for Yahweh God." 
1Chronicles29:2 Now with all my power I have prepared for the house of my God the gold for the things of gold, and the silver for the things of silver, and the bronze for the things of bronze, the iron for the things of iron, and wood for the things of wood, onyx stones and inlaid stones, stones of antimony and stones of various colors, and all kinds of precious stones and alabaster in abundance." 
1Chronicles29:3 Moreover, in my pleasure in the house of my God, the treasure I have of gold and silver, I give to the house of my God, over and above all that I have already prepared for the holy house," 
1Chronicles29:4 namely, 3,000 talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and 7,000 talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the buildings;" 
1Chronicles29:5 of gold for the things of gold and of silver for the things of silver, that is, for all the work done by the hand of craftsmen. Who then would offer willingly to ordain himself this day to Yahweh?”" 
1Chronicles29:6 Then the commanders of the fathers’ households, and the commanders of the tribes of Israel, and the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, with the commanders of the king’s work, offered willingly;" 
1Chronicles29:7 and for the service for the house of God they gave 5,000 talents and 10,000 darics of gold, and 10,000 talents of silver, and 18,000 talents of brass, and 100,000 talents of iron." 
1Chronicles29:8 And whoever possessed precious stones gave them to the treasury of the house of Yahweh, in the care of Jehiel the Gershonite." 
1Chronicles29:9 Then the people were glad because they had offered so willingly, for they made their freewill offering to Yahweh with a whole heart, and King David also was exceedingly glad." 
1Chronicles29:10 So David blessed Yahweh in the sight of all the assembly; and David said, “Blessed are You, O Yahweh, the God of Israel our father, from everlasting to everlasting." 
1Chronicles29:11 Yours, O Yahweh, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, indeed everything that is in the heavens and the earth; Yours is the kingdom, O Yahweh, and You exalt Yourself as head over all." 
1Chronicles29:12 Both riches and honor come from You, and You rule over all, and in Your hand is power and might; and it lies in Your hand to make great and to strengthen everyone." 
1Chronicles29:13 So now, our God, we are thanking You and praising Your glorious name." 
1Chronicles29:14 “But who am I and who are my people that we should be able to offer as willingly as this? For all things come from You, and from Your hand we have given You." 
1Chronicles29:15 For we are sojourners before You, and foreign residents, like all our fathers were; our days on the earth are like a shadow, and there is no hope." 
1Chronicles29:16 O Yahweh our God, all this abundance that we have prepared to build You a house for Your holy name, it is from Your hand, and all is Yours." 
1Chronicles29:17 And I know, O my God, that You try the heart and delight in uprightness. I, in the uprightness of my heart, have willingly offered all these things. So now with gladness I have seen Your people, who are present here, make their offerings willingly to You." 
1Chronicles29:18 O Yahweh, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep this forever in the intentions of the heart of Your people, and prepare their heart to You;" 
1Chronicles29:19 and give to my son Solomon a whole heart to keep Your commandments, Your testimonies and Your statutes, and to do them all, and to build the temple, for which I have made preparation.”" 
1Chronicles29:20 Then David said to all the assembly, “Now bless Yahweh your God.” And all the assembly blessed Yahweh, the God of their fathers, and bowed low and prostrated themselves to Yahweh and to the king." 
1Chronicles29:21 And on the next day they made sacrifices to Yahweh and offered burnt offerings to Yahweh, 1,000 bulls, 1,000 rams, and 1,000 lambs, with their drink offerings and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel." 
1Chronicles29:22 So they ate and drank that day before Yahweh with great gladness. David’s Officials and Sons Pledge AllegianceAnd they made Solomon the son of David king a second time, and they anointed him as ruler for Yahweh and Zadok as priest." 
1Chronicles29:23 Then Solomon sat on the throne of Yahweh as king instead of David his father; and he succeeded, and all Israel obeyed him." 
1Chronicles29:24 And all the officials, the mighty men, and also all the sons of King David pledged allegiance to King Solomon." 
1Chronicles29:25 And Yahweh highly exalted Solomon in the sight of all Israel, and granted to him royal majesty which had not been on any king before him in Israel." 
1Chronicles29:26 Now David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel. 
1Chronicles29:27 And the time which he reigned over Israel was forty years; in Hebron he reigned seven years and in Jerusalem thirty-three years. 
1Chronicles29:28 Then he died in a good old age, full of days, riches and glory; and his son Solomon became king in his place." 
1Chronicles29:29 Now the acts of King David, from first to last, behold, they are written in the chronicles of Samuel the seer, in the chronicles of Nathan the prophet and in the chronicles of Gad the seer," 
1Chronicles29:30 with all his reign, his might, and the circumstances which came on him, on Israel, and on all the kingdoms of the lands." 
2Chronicles1:1 Now Solomon the son of David strengthened himself over his kingdom, and Yahweh his God was with him and highly exalted him." 
2Chronicles1:2 And Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the commanders of thousands and of hundreds and to the judges and to every leader in all Israel, the heads of the fathers’ households." 
2Chronicles1:3 Then Solomon and all the assembly with him went to the high place which was at Gibeon, for God’s tent of meeting was there, which Moses the servant of Yahweh had made in the wilderness." 
2Chronicles1:4 However, David had brought up the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim to the place he had prepared for it, for he had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles1:5 Now the bronze altar, which Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, was there before the tabernacle of Yahweh, and Solomon and the assembly sought it out." 
2Chronicles1:6 And Solomon went up there before Yahweh to the bronze altar which was at the tent of meeting, and offered one thousand burnt offerings on it." 
2Chronicles1:7 In that night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, “Ask what I should give to you.”" 
2Chronicles1:8 Then Solomon said to God, “You have shown great lovingkindness to my father David, and have made me king in his place." 
2Chronicles1:9 Now, O Yahweh God, let Your promise to my father David endure, for You have made me king over a people as numerous as the dust of the earth." 
2Chronicles1:10 Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people, for who can do justice for this great people of Yours?”" 
2Chronicles1:11 And God said to Solomon, “Because you had this in your heart, and did not ask for riches, wealth, or glory, or the life of those who hate you, nor have you even asked for long life, but you have asked for yourself wisdom and knowledge that you may do justice for My people over whom I have made you king," 
2Chronicles1:12 wisdom and knowledge have been given to you. And I will give you riches and wealth and glory, such as none of the kings who were before you had nor those who will come after you.”" 
2Chronicles1:13 So Solomon went from the high place which was at Gibeon, from the tent of meeting, to Jerusalem, and he reigned over Israel." 
2Chronicles1:14 And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen. And he had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horsemen, and he stationed them in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles1:15 The king also made silver and gold as plentiful as stones in Jerusalem, and he made cedars as plentiful as sycamore trees that are in the Shephelah." 
2Chronicles1:16 Solomon’s import of horses was from Egypt and from Kue; the king’s merchants procured them from Kue for a price. 
2Chronicles1:17 And they imported a chariot from Egypt for 600 shekels of silver and a horse for 150; and by the same means they exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Aram. 
2Chronicles2:1 Then Solomon decided to build a house for the name of Yahweh and a royal palace for himself. 
2Chronicles2:2 So Solomon numbered 70,000 men to carry loads and 80,000 men to hew stone in the mountains and 3,600 to direct them." 
2Chronicles2:3 Then Solomon sent word to Huram the king of Tyre, saying, “As you dealt with David my father and sent him cedars to build him a house to live in, so do for me." 
2Chronicles2:4 Behold, I am about to build a house for the name of Yahweh my God, setting it apart to Him as holy, to burn fragrant incense before Him and to set out the showbread continually, and to offer burnt offerings morning and evening, on sabbaths and on new moons and on the appointed feasts of Yahweh our God, this being required forever in Israel." 
2Chronicles2:5 Now the house which I am about to build will be great, for greater is our God than all the gods." 
2Chronicles2:6 But who is able to build a house for Him, for the heavens and the highest heavens cannot contain Him? So who am I, that I should build a house for Him, except to burn incense before Him?" 
2Chronicles2:7 So now, send me a wise man to work in gold, silver, brass, and iron, and in purple, crimson, and blue fabrics, and who knows how to make engravings, to work with the wise men whom I have in Judah and Jerusalem, whom David my father prepared." 
2Chronicles2:8 Send me also cedar, cypress and algum timber from Lebanon, for I know that your servants know how to cut timber of Lebanon; and behold, my servants will work with your servants," 
2Chronicles2:9 to prepare timber in abundance for me, for the house which I am about to build will be great and wonderful." 
2Chronicles2:10 And behold, I will give to your servants, the woodsmen who cut the timber, 20,000 kors of crushed wheat and 20,000 kors of barley, and 20,000 baths of wine and 20,000 baths of oil.”" 
2Chronicles2:11 Then Huram king of Tyre said in a letter sent to Solomon: “Because Yahweh loves His people, He has given you to be king over them.”" 
2Chronicles2:12 Then Huram said, “Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, who has made heaven and earth, who has given King David a wise son, knowledgeable in insight and understanding, who will build a house for Yahweh and a royal palace for himself." 
2Chronicles2:13 “So now, I am sending Huram-abi, a wise man, who is knowledgeable in understanding," 
2Chronicles2:14 the son of a Danite woman and a Tyrian father, who knows how to work in gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone, and wood, and in purple, blue, linen, and crimson fabrics, and who knows how to make all kinds of engravings and to devise any design which may be given to him, to work with your wise men and with the wise men of my lord David your father." 
2Chronicles2:15 So now, let my lord send to his servants wheat and barley, oil and wine, of which he has spoken." 
2Chronicles2:16 And we will cut whatever timber you need from Lebanon and bring it to you on rafts by sea to Joppa, so that you may carry it up to Jerusalem.”" 
2Chronicles2:17 Then Solomon numbered all the sojourners who were in the land of Israel, following the census which his father David had taken; and 153,600 were found." 
2Chronicles2:18 And he made 70,000 of them to carry loads and 80,000 as hewers of stone in the mountains and 3,600 directors to make the people work." 
2Chronicles3:1 Then Solomon began to build the house of Yahweh in Jerusalem on Mount Moriah, where Yahweh had appeared to his father David, at the place that David had prepared on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite." 
2Chronicles3:2 Then he began to build on the second day in the second month of the fourth year of his reign. 
2Chronicles3:3 Now these are the foundations which Solomon laid for building the house of God. The length in cubits, according to the old standard was sixty cubits, and the width twenty cubits." 
2Chronicles3:4 And the porch which was in front of the house was as long as the width of the house, 20 cubits, and the height 120; and inside he overlaid it with pure gold." 
2Chronicles3:5 Now he overlaid the main room with cypress wood and overlaid it with fine gold, and ornamented it with palm trees and chains." 
2Chronicles3:6 Further, he overlaid the house with precious stones for beauty; and the gold was gold from Parvaim." 
2Chronicles3:7 He also covered the house with gold—the beams, the thresholds and its walls and its doors; and he carved cherubim on the walls." 
2Chronicles3:8 And he made the room of the Holy of Holies: its length across the width of the house was twenty cubits, and its width was twenty cubits; and he covered it with fine gold, amounting to 600 talents." 
2Chronicles3:9 Now the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. He also covered the upper rooms with gold. 
2Chronicles3:10 Then in the room of the Holy of Holies he made two cherubim of fashioned work and overlaid them with gold. 
2Chronicles3:11 Now the wingspan of the cherubim was twenty cubits; the wing of one, of five cubits, touched the wall of the house, and its other wing, of five cubits, touched the wing of the other cherub." 
2Chronicles3:12 And the wing of the other cherub, of five cubits, touched the wall of the house; and its other wing of five cubits was attached to the wing of the first cherub." 
2Chronicles3:13 The wings of these cherubim extended twenty cubits, and they stood on their feet facing the main room." 
2Chronicles3:14 And he made the veil of blue, purple, crimson, and fine linen, and he ornamented cherubim on it." 
2Chronicles3:15 He also made two pillars for the front of the house, thirty-five cubits high, and the capital on the top of each was five cubits." 
2Chronicles3:16 And he made chains in the inner sanctuary and put them on the top of the pillars; and he made one hundred pomegranates and put them on the chains. 
2Chronicles3:17 Thus he set up the pillars in front of the temple, one on the right and one on the left, and named the one on the right Jachin and the one on the left Boaz." 
2Chronicles4:1 Then he made a bronze altar, twenty cubits in length and twenty cubits in width and ten cubits in height." 
2Chronicles4:2 And he made the sea of cast metal ten cubits from brim to brim, circular in form, and its height was five cubits, and thirty cubits in its circumference." 
2Chronicles4:3 Now figures like oxen were under it and encircling it, ten cubits, entirely encircling the sea. The oxen were in two rows, cast in one piece." 
2Chronicles4:4 It stood on twelve oxen, three facing the north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east; and the sea was set on top of them, and all their rear parts turned inward." 
2Chronicles4:5 And it was a handbreadth thick, and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, as a lily blossom; it could hold 3,000 baths." 
2Chronicles4:6 He also made ten lavers and set five on the right side and five on the left, in which to wash things, that is, in which they would rinse things for the burnt offering; but the sea was for the priests to wash in." 
2Chronicles4:7 Then he made the ten golden lampstands in the way prescribed for them and he put them in the temple, five on the right side and five on the left." 
2Chronicles4:8 He also made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the right side and five on the left. And he made one hundred golden bowls." 
2Chronicles4:9 Then he made the court of the priests and the great court and doors for the court, and overlaid their doors with bronze." 
2Chronicles4:10 And he put the sea on the right side of the house toward the southeast. 
2Chronicles4:11 And Huram made the pots and the shovels and the bowls. So Huram completed doing the work which he did for King Solomon in the house of God: 
2Chronicles4:12 the two pillars and the two bowls and the two capitals on top of the pillars, and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on top of the pillars," 
2Chronicles4:13 and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on the pillars." 
2Chronicles4:14 He also made the stands and he made the lavers on the stands," 
2Chronicles4:15 and the one sea with the twelve oxen under it. 
2Chronicles4:16 And the pots and the shovels and the flesh hooks and all its utensils, Huram-abi made of polished bronze for King Solomon for the house of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles4:17 On the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredah." 
2Chronicles4:18 Thus Solomon made all these utensils in great quantities, for the weight of the bronze could not be found out." 
2Chronicles4:19 Solomon also made all the furniture which was in the house of God: even the golden altar and the tables with the bread of the Presence on them," 
2Chronicles4:20 and the lampstands with their lamps of pure gold, to burn in front of the inner sanctuary in the way prescribed;" 
2Chronicles4:21 and the flowers and the lamps and the tongs of gold, of purest gold;" 
2Chronicles4:22 and the snuffers and the bowls and the spoons and the firepans, of pure gold; and the entrance of the house, its inner doors for the Holy of Holies and the doors of the house, that is, of the nave, of gold." 
2Chronicles5:1 Thus all the work that Solomon did for the house of Yahweh was finished. And Solomon brought in the things set apart as holy by his father David, even the silver and the gold and all the utensils, and he put them in the treasuries of the house of God." 
2Chronicles5:2 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the fathers’ households of the sons of Israel to Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the city of David, which is Zion." 
2Chronicles5:3 And all the men of Israel assembled themselves to the king at the feast, that is in the seventh month." 
2Chronicles5:4 Then all the elders of Israel came, and the Levites carried the ark." 
2Chronicles5:5 And they brought up the ark and the tent of meeting and all the holy utensils which were in the tent; the Levitical priests brought them up. 
2Chronicles5:6 And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel who congregated with him before the ark, were sacrificing so many sheep and oxen that they could not be counted or numbered." 
2Chronicles5:7 Then the priests brought the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to its place, into the inner sanctuary of the house, to the Holy of Holies, under the wings of the cherubim." 
2Chronicles5:8 And the cherubim spread their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim made a covering over the ark and its poles from above." 
2Chronicles5:9 But the poles were so long that the ends of the poles of the ark could be seen before the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen outside; and they are there to this day." 
2Chronicles5:10 There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets which Moses put there at Horeb, where Yahweh cut a covenant with the sons of Israel, when they came out of Egypt." 
2Chronicles5:11 Now it happened that when the priests came out of the holy place (for all the priests who were present had sanctified themselves, without regard to divisions)," 
2Chronicles5:12 and all the Levitical singers, Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun, and their sons and relatives, clothed in fine linen, with cymbals, harps, and lyres, standing east of the altar, and with them 120 priests blowing trumpets" 
2Chronicles5:13 in unison when the trumpeters and the singers were to make themselves heard with one voice to praise and to give thanks to Yahweh, and when they lifted up their voice accompanied by trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music, and when they praised Yahweh saying, “He indeed is good for His lovingkindness endures forever,” then the house, the house of Yahweh, was filled with a cloud," 
2Chronicles5:14 so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of Yahweh filled the house of God." 
2Chronicles6:1 Then Solomon said, “Yahweh has said that He would dwell in the cloud of dense gloom." 
2Chronicles6:2 Now I have built You a lofty house, And a place for Your dwelling forever.”" 
2Chronicles6:3 Then the king turned his face around and blessed all the assembly of Israel, while all the assembly of Israel was standing." 
2Chronicles6:4 And he said, “Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, who spoke with His mouth to my father David and has fulfilled it by His hands, saying," 
2Chronicles6:5 ‘Since the day that I brought My people from the land of Egypt, I did not choose a city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house that My name might be there, nor did I choose any man for a ruler over My people Israel;" 
2Chronicles6:6 but I have chosen Jerusalem that My name might be there, and I have chosen David to be over My people Israel.’" 
2Chronicles6:7 And it was in the heart of my father David to build a house for the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles6:8 But Yahweh said to my father David, ‘Because it was in your heart to build a house for My name, you did well that it was in your heart." 
2Chronicles6:9 Nevertheless you shall not build the house, but your son who will come forth from your loins, he shall build the house for My name.’" 
2Chronicles6:10 And Yahweh has established His word which He spoke; and I have been established in place of my father David and sit on the throne of Israel, as Yahweh promised, and have built the house for the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles6:11 And there I have set the ark in which is the covenant of Yahweh, which He cut with the sons of Israel.”" 
2Chronicles6:12 Then he stood before the altar of Yahweh before all the assembly of Israel and spread out his hands. 
2Chronicles6:13 Now Solomon had made a bronze platform, five cubits long, five cubits wide and three cubits high, and had put it in the midst of the court; and he stood on it, knelt on his knees in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread out his hands toward heaven." 
2Chronicles6:14 And he said, “O Yahweh, the God of Israel, there is no god like You in heaven or on earth, keeping covenant and lovingkindness to Your slaves who walk before You with all their heart;" 
2Chronicles6:15 who have kept with Your servant David, my father, that which You have promised him; indeed You have promised with Your mouth and have fulfilled it by Your hand, as it is this day." 
2Chronicles6:16 So now, O Yahweh, the God of Israel, keep with Your servant David my father, that which You have promised him, saying, ‘You shall not have a man cut off from before Me who is to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your sons keep their way to walk in My law as you have walked before Me.’" 
2Chronicles6:17 So now, O Yahweh, the God of Israel, let Your word truly endure which You have spoken to Your servant David." 
2Chronicles6:18 “But will God truly dwell with mankind on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain You; how much less this house which I have built." 
2Chronicles6:19 Yet have regard to the prayer of Your slave and to his supplication, O Yahweh my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which Your slave prays before You;" 
2Chronicles6:20 that Your eyes may be open toward this house day and night, toward the place of which You have said that You would place Your name there, to listen to the prayer which Your slave shall pray toward this place." 
2Chronicles6:21 And listen to the supplications of Your slave and of Your people Israel, when they pray toward this place; listen from Your dwelling place, from heaven; listen and forgive." 
2Chronicles6:22 “If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath, and he comes and takes an oath before Your altar in this house," 
2Chronicles6:23 then listen from heaven and act and judge Your slaves, punishing the wicked by bringing his way on his own head and justifying the righteous by bringing him reward according to his righteousness." 
2Chronicles6:24 “And if Your people Israel are defeated before an enemy because they have sinned against You, and they turn to You and confess Your name, and pray and make supplication before You in this house," 
2Chronicles6:25 then listen from heaven and forgive the sin of Your people Israel, and bring them back to the land which You have given to them and to their fathers." 
2Chronicles6:26 “When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against You, and they pray toward this place and confess Your name, and turn from their sin when You afflict them;" 
2Chronicles6:27 then listen in heaven and forgive the sin of Your slaves and of Your people Israel; indeed, teach them the good way in which they should walk. And give rain on Your land, which You have given to Your people for an inheritance." 
2Chronicles6:28 “If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is scorching wind or mildew, if there is locust or grasshopper, if their enemies besiege them in the land of their cities, whatever plague or whatever sickness there is," 
2Chronicles6:29 whatever prayer or supplication is made by any man or by all Your people Israel, who know his own affliction and his own pain, and spread his hands toward this house," 
2Chronicles6:30 then listen from heaven Your dwelling place, and forgive, and give to each according to all his ways, whose heart You know, for You alone know the hearts of the sons of men," 
2Chronicles6:31 that they may fear You, to walk in Your ways all the days they live upon the face of the land which You have given to our fathers." 
2Chronicles6:32 “Also concerning the foreigner who is not of Your people Israel, if he comes from a far country for Your great name’s sake and Your strong hand and Your outstretched arm, so if they come and pray toward this house," 
2Chronicles6:33 then listen from heaven, from Your dwelling place, and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to You, in order that all the peoples of the earth may know Your name even to fear You, as do Your people Israel, and to know that Your name is called upon this house which I have built." 
2Chronicles6:34 “When Your people go out to battle against their enemies, by whatever way You shall send them, and they pray to You toward this city which You have chosen and the house which I have built for Your name," 
2Chronicles6:35 then listen from heaven to their prayer and their supplication, and do justice." 
2Chronicles6:36 “When they sin against You (for there is no man who does not sin) and You are angry with them and give them over to an enemy, so that they take them away captive to a land far off or near," 
2Chronicles6:37 and if they cause these things to return to their heart in the land where they have been taken captive, and return and make supplication to You in the land of their captivity, saying, ‘We have sinned, we have committed iniquity and have acted wickedly’;" 
2Chronicles6:38 and if they return to You with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, where they have been taken captive, and pray toward their land which You have given to their fathers and the city which You have chosen, and toward the house which I have built for Your name," 
2Chronicles6:39 then listen from heaven, from Your dwelling place, to their prayer and supplications, and do justice for them and forgive Your people who have sinned against You." 
2Chronicles6:40 “Now, O my God, I pray, let Your eyes be open and Your ears attentive to the prayer offered in this place." 
2Chronicles6:41 “So now, arise, O Yahweh God, to Your resting place, You and the ark of Your strength; let Your priests, O Yahweh God, be clothed with salvation and let Your holy ones be glad in what is good." 
2Chronicles6:42 “O Yahweh God, do not turn away the face of Your anointed; remember Your lovingkindness to Your servant David.”" 
2Chronicles7:1 Now when Solomon had finished praying, fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices, and the glory of Yahweh filled the house." 
2Chronicles7:2 And the priests could not enter into the house of Yahweh because the glory of Yahweh filled the house of Yahweh. 
2Chronicles7:3 And all the sons of Israel, seeing the fire come down and the glory of Yahweh upon the house, bowed down on the pavement with their faces to the ground, and they worshiped and gave praise to Yahweh, saying, “For He is good, for His lovingkindness endures forever.”" 
2Chronicles7:4 Now the king and all the people were offering sacrifices before Yahweh. 
2Chronicles7:5 And King Solomon offered a sacrifice of 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the people dedicated the house of God." 
2Chronicles7:6 And the priests stood at their posts, and the Levites also, with the instruments of music to Yahweh, which King David had made for giving thanks to Yahweh—“for His lovingkindness endures forever”—whenever he gave praise by their hand, while the priests on the other side blew trumpets; and all Israel was standing." 
2Chronicles7:7 Then Solomon set apart as holy the middle of the court that was before the house of Yahweh, because there he offered the burnt offerings and the fat of the peace offerings; for the bronze altar which Solomon had made was not able to hold the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat." 
2Chronicles7:8 So Solomon celebrated the feast at that time for seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great assembly from Lebo-hamath to the brook of Egypt." 
2Chronicles7:9 And on the eighth day they celebrated a solemn assembly; for the dedication of the altar they celebrated seven days and the feast seven days. 
2Chronicles7:10 And on the twenty-third day of the seventh month he sent the people to their tents, with gladness and goodness of heart because of the goodness that Yahweh had shown to David and to Solomon and to Israel His people." 
2Chronicles7:11 Thus Solomon completed the house of Yahweh and the king’s house; and all that had come into Solomon’s heart to do in the house of Yahweh and in his house, he did successfully." 
2Chronicles7:12 Then Yahweh appeared to Solomon at night and said to him, “I have heard your prayer and have chosen this place for Myself as a house of sacrifice." 
2Chronicles7:13 If I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or if I command the grasshopper to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among My people," 
2Chronicles7:14 and My people who are called by My name humble themselves and pray and seek My face and turn from their evil ways, then I will listen from heaven, I will forgive their sin, and I will heal their land." 
2Chronicles7:15 Now My eyes will be open and My ears attentive to the prayer offered in this place. 
2Chronicles7:16 So now I have chosen and set this house apart as holy that My name may be there forever, and My eyes and My heart will be there perpetually." 
2Chronicles7:17 As for you, if you will walk before Me as your father David walked, even to do according to all that I have commanded you, and will keep My statutes and My judgments," 
2Chronicles7:18 then I will establish your royal throne as I cut a covenant with your father David, saying, ‘You shall not have a man cut off as ruler in Israel.’" 
2Chronicles7:19 “But if you turn away and forsake My statutes and My commandments which I have set before you, and go and serve other gods and worship them," 
2Chronicles7:20 then I will uproot you from My land which I have given you, and this house which I have set apart as holy for My name I will cast out of My presence and I will make it a proverb and a byword among all peoples." 
2Chronicles7:21 As for this house, which was exalted, everyone who passes by it will feel desolate and say, ‘Why has Yahweh done thus to this land and to this house?’" 
2Chronicles7:22 And they will say, ‘Because they forsook Yahweh, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt and took hold of other gods and worshiped them and served them, therefore He has brought all this calamity on them.’”" 
2Chronicles8:1 Now it happened at the end of the twenty years in which Solomon had built the house of Yahweh and his own house 
2Chronicles8:2 that he built the cities which Huram had given to him, and settled the sons of Israel there." 
2Chronicles8:3 Then Solomon went to Hamath-zobah and overpowered it. 
2Chronicles8:4 And he built Tadmor in the wilderness and all the storage cities which he had built in Hamath. 
2Chronicles8:5 He also built upper Beth-horon and lower Beth-horon, fortified cities with walls, gates and bars;" 
2Chronicles8:6 and Baalath and all the storage cities which Solomon had, and all the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land under his rule." 
2Chronicles8:7 As for all the people who were left of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of Israel," 
2Chronicles8:8 namely, from their sons who were left after them in the land whom the sons of Israel had not consumed, from them Solomon raised up forced laborers to this day." 
2Chronicles8:9 But Solomon did not make slaves for his work from the sons of Israel; for they were men of war, his chief captains and his chariot commanders and his horsemen." 
2Chronicles8:10 These were the chief deputies of King Solomon, 250 who ruled over the people." 
2Chronicles8:11 Then Solomon brought Pharaoh’s daughter up from the city of David to the house which he had built for her, for he said, “My wife shall not live in the house of David king of Israel, because the places are holy where the ark of Yahweh has entered.”" 
2Chronicles8:12 Then Solomon offered burnt offerings to Yahweh on the altar of Yahweh which he had built before the porch; 
2Chronicles8:13 and did so according to the daily rule, offering them up according to the commandment of Moses, for the sabbaths, the new moons and the three annual feasts—the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks and the Feast of Booths." 
2Chronicles8:14 And according to the judgment of his father David, he caused the divisions of the priests to stand for their service, and the Levites for their responsibilities to praise and minister before the priests according to the daily rule, and the gatekeepers by their divisions at every gate; for David the man of God had so commanded." 
2Chronicles8:15 And they did not turn away from the commandment of the king to the priests and Levites in any manner or concerning the treasuries. 
2Chronicles8:16 Thus all the work of Solomon was carried out from the day of the foundation of the house of Yahweh, and until it was completed. So the house of Yahweh was finished." 
2Chronicles8:17 Then Solomon went to Ezion-geber and to Eloth on the shore of the sea in the land of Edom. 
2Chronicles8:18 And Huram by the hand of his servants sent him ships and servants who knew the sea; and they went with Solomon’s servants to Ophir, and took from there 450 talents of gold and brought them to King Solomon." 
2Chronicles9:1 Now the queen of Sheba heard the report about Solomon. So she came to Jerusalem to test Solomon with riddles. She had a very glorious retinue, with camels carrying spices and a large amount of gold and precious stones. And she came to Solomon and spoke with him about all that was in her heart." 
2Chronicles9:2 And Solomon declared to her the answer to all her matters; and not a matter was hidden from Solomon which he did not declare to her. 
2Chronicles9:3 Then the queen of Sheba saw the wisdom of Solomon, the house which he had built," 
2Chronicles9:4 the food at his table, the seating of his servants, the disposition of his attendants and their attire, his cupbearers and their attire, and his stairway by which he went up to the house of Yahweh, so that there was no more spirit in her." 
2Chronicles9:5 Then she said to the king, “The word is true which I heard in my own land about your words and your wisdom." 
2Chronicles9:6 Nevertheless I did not believe their words until I came and my eyes had seen it. And behold, the half of the greatness of your wisdom was not declared to me. You exceed the report which I heard." 
2Chronicles9:7 How blessed are your men, how blessed are these your servants who stand before you continually and hear your wisdom." 
2Chronicles9:8 Blessed be Yahweh your God who delighted in you, to set you on His throne as king for Yahweh your God; because your God loved Israel to cause them to stand forever, therefore He gave you as king over them, to do justice and righteousness.”" 
2Chronicles9:9 Then she gave the king 120 talents of gold and a very great amount of spices and precious stones. There had never been spice like that which the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon. 
2Chronicles9:10 Also, the servants of Huram and the servants of Solomon, who brought gold from Ophir, brought algum trees and precious stones." 
2Chronicles9:11 And the king made of the algum trees steps for the house of Yahweh and for the king’s house, and lyres and harps for the singers; and none like that was seen before in the land of Judah." 
2Chronicles9:12 Thus King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire which she asked, besides a return for what she had brought to the king. Then she turned around and went to her own land together with her servants." 
2Chronicles9:13 Now the weight of gold which came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents of gold," 
2Chronicles9:14 besides that which the traders and merchants brought; and all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon. 
2Chronicles9:15 And King Solomon made 200 large shields of beaten gold, using 600 shekels of beaten gold on each large shield." 
2Chronicles9:16 And he made 300 shields of beaten gold, using 300 shekels of gold on each shield, and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon." 
2Chronicles9:17 Moreover, the king made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with pure gold." 
2Chronicles9:18 And there were six steps to the throne and a footstool in gold attached to the throne, and arms on each side of the seat, and two lions standing beside the arms." 
2Chronicles9:19 Twelve lions were also standing there on the six steps on the one side and on the other; nothing like it was made for any other kingdom. 
2Chronicles9:20 Now all King Solomon’s drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold; silver was not considered valuable in the days of Solomon." 
2Chronicles9:21 For the king had ships which went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram; once every three years the ships of Tarshish came carrying gold and silver, ivory and apes and peacocks." 
2Chronicles9:22 So King Solomon became greater than all the kings of the earth in riches and wisdom. 
2Chronicles9:23 And all the kings of the earth were seeking the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom which God had put in his heart." 
2Chronicles9:24 And they brought every man his present, articles of silver and gold, garments, weapons, spices, horses and mules, a set amount year by year." 
2Chronicles9:25 And Solomon had 4,000 stalls for horses and chariots and 12,000 horsemen, and he stationed them in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles9:26 And he was the ruler over all the kings from the River even to the land of the Philistines, and to the border of Egypt." 
2Chronicles9:27 The king also made silver as plentiful as stones in Jerusalem, and he made cedars as plentiful as sycamore trees that are in the Shephelah." 
2Chronicles9:28 And they were importing horses for Solomon from Egypt and from all countries. 
2Chronicles9:29 Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, from first to last, are they not written in the chronicles of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat?" 
2Chronicles9:30 Thus Solomon reigned forty years in Jerusalem over all Israel. 
2Chronicles9:31 And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of his father David; and his son Rehoboam became king in his place. 
2Chronicles10:1 Then Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king." 
2Chronicles10:2 And it happened, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was in Egypt where he had fled from the presence of King Solomon), Jeroboam returned from Egypt." 
2Chronicles10:3 Then they sent and called for him. And Jeroboam and all Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam, saying," 
2Chronicles10:4 “Your father made our yoke harsh; but now, lighten the harsh service of your father and his heavy yoke which he put on us, and we will serve you.”" 
2Chronicles10:5 Then he said to them, “Return to me again in three days.” So the people went away." 
2Chronicles10:6 Then King Rehoboam took counsel with the elders who had stood before his father Solomon while he was still alive, saying, “How do you counsel me to respond to this people?”" 
2Chronicles10:7 And they spoke to him, saying, “If you will be good to this people and please them and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever.”" 
2Chronicles10:8 But he forsook the counsel of the elders which they had counseled him, and took counsel with the young men who grew up with him and stood before him." 
2Chronicles10:9 So he said to them, “What counsel do you give that we may respond to this people, who have spoken to me, saying, ‘Lighten the yoke which your father put on us’?”" 
2Chronicles10:10 Then the young men who grew up with him spoke with him, saying, “Thus you shall say to the people who spoke to you, saying, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy, but you make it lighter for us.’ Thus you shall say to them, ‘My little finger is thicker than my father’s loins!" 
2Chronicles10:11 So now my father loaded you with a heavy yoke, but I will add to your yoke; my father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.’”" 
2Chronicles10:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day as the king had spoken, saying, “Return to me on the third day.”" 
2Chronicles10:13 And the king answered them harshly, and King Rehoboam forsook the counsel of the elders," 
2Chronicles10:14 and he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, “My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it; my father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.”" 
2Chronicles10:15 So the king did not listen to the people, for it was a turn of events from God, that Yahweh might establish His word, which He spoke through Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat." 
2Chronicles10:16 Now all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them. So the people responded to the king, saying, “What portion do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to your tents, O Israel; Now see to your own house, David.” So all Israel went to their tents." 
2Chronicles10:17 But as for the sons of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them." 
2Chronicles10:18 Then King Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was over the forced labor, and the sons of Israel stoned him and he died. And King Rehoboam made haste to mount his chariot to flee to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles10:19 So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day. 
2Chronicles11:1 Then Rehoboam came to Jerusalem and assembled the house of Judah and Benjamin, 180,000 chosen men who could wage war, to fight against Israel to return the kingdom to Rehoboam." 
2Chronicles11:2 But the word of Yahweh came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying," 
2Chronicles11:3 “Speak to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin, saying," 
2Chronicles11:4 ‘Thus says Yahweh, “You shall not go up and fight against your brothers; return every man to his house, for this thing is from Me.”’” So they listened to the words of Yahweh and returned from going against Jeroboam." 
2Chronicles11:5 Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem and built cities for fortifications in Judah. 
2Chronicles11:6 Thus he built Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa," 
2Chronicles11:7 Beth-zur, Soco, Adullam," 
2Chronicles11:8 Gath, Mareshah, Ziph," 
2Chronicles11:9 Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah," 
2Chronicles11:10 Zorah, Aijalon and Hebron, which are fortified cities in Judah and in Benjamin." 
2Chronicles11:11 He also strengthened the fortresses and put officers in them and stores of food, oil and wine." 
2Chronicles11:12 And he put large shields and spears in every city and strengthened them greatly. So he held Judah and Benjamin. 
2Chronicles11:13 Moreover, the priests and the Levites who were in all Israel took their stand with him from all their territories." 
2Chronicles11:14 For the Levites left their pasture lands and their possession of land and went to Judah and Jerusalem, for Jeroboam and his sons had rejected them from ministering as priests to Yahweh—" 
2Chronicles11:15 And he set up priests of his own for the high places, for the goat demons and for the calves which he had made—" 
2Chronicles11:16 Now those from all the tribes of Israel who gave their hearts to seek Yahweh, the God of Israel, followed them to Jerusalem, to sacrifice to Yahweh, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles11:17 They strengthened the kingdom of Judah and gave courage to Rehoboam the son of Solomon for three years, for they walked in the way of David and Solomon for three years." 
2Chronicles11:18 Then Rehoboam took as a wife Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David and of Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse," 
2Chronicles11:19 and she bore him sons: Jeush, Shemariah, and Zaham." 
2Chronicles11:20 And after her he took Maacah the daughter of Absalom, and she bore him Abijah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelomith." 
2Chronicles11:21 And Rehoboam loved Maacah the daughter of Absalom more than all his other wives and concubines. For he had taken eighteen wives and sixty concubines and became the father of twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters. 
2Chronicles11:22 And Rehoboam set up Abijah the son of Maacah to be head and ruler among his brothers, for he intended to make him king." 
2Chronicles11:23 And he acted with discernment and distributed some of his sons through all the lands of Judah and Benjamin to all the fortified cities, and he gave them sustenance in abundance. And he sought a multitude of wives for them." 
2Chronicles12:1 Now it happened that when the kingdom of Rehoboam was established and strong, he and all Israel with him forsook the law of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles12:2 Now it happened in the fifth year of King Rehoboam, because they had been unfaithful to Yahweh, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem" 
2Chronicles12:3 with 1,200 chariots and 60,000 horsemen. And the people who came with him from Egypt were without number: the Lubim, the Sukkiim and the Ethiopians." 
2Chronicles12:4 And he captured the fortified cities of Judah and came as far as Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles12:5 Now Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and the princes of Judah who had gathered at Jerusalem because of Shishak, and he said to them, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘You have forsaken Me, so I also have forsaken you to Shishak.’”" 
2Chronicles12:6 So the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, “Yahweh is righteous.”" 
2Chronicles12:7 When Yahweh saw that they humbled themselves, the word of Yahweh came to Shemaiah, saying, “They have humbled themselves so I will not bring them to ruin, but I will grant them some measure of escape, and My wrath shall not be poured out on Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak." 
2Chronicles12:8 But they will become his slaves so that they may know the difference between My slavery and the slavery of the kingdoms of the countries.” 
2Chronicles12:9 So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took the treasures of the house of Yahweh and the treasures of the king’s house. He took everything; he even took the shields of gold which Solomon had made." 
2Chronicles12:10 Then King Rehoboam made shields of bronze in their place and committed them to the hand of the commanders of the guard who kept the door of the king’s house. 
2Chronicles12:11 Now it happened that as often as the king entered the house of Yahweh, the guards would come and carry them and then bring them back into the guards’ room." 
2Chronicles12:12 And when he humbled himself, the anger of Yahweh turned away from him, so as not to ruin him completely; and also conditions were good in Judah." 
2Chronicles12:13 So King Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem and reigned. Now Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which Yahweh had chosen from all the tribes of Israel to put His name there. And his mother’s name was Naamah the Ammonitess." 
2Chronicles12:14 And he did evil because he did not set his heart to seek Yahweh. 
2Chronicles12:15 Now the acts of Rehoboam, from first to last, are they not written in the records of Shemaiah the prophet and of Iddo the seer, according to genealogical record? Now there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all their days." 
2Chronicles12:16 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David; and Abijah his son became king in his place. 
2Chronicles13:1 In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, Abijah became king over Judah." 
2Chronicles13:2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Micaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. Now there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. 
2Chronicles13:3 And Abijah began the battle with a military force of mighty men, 400,000 chosen men, while Jeroboam arranged them all for battle against him with 800,000 chosen men who were mighty men of valor." 
2Chronicles13:4 Then Abijah rose up on Mount Zemaraim, which is in the hill country of Ephraim, and said, “Listen to me, Jeroboam and all Israel:" 
2Chronicles13:5 Do you not know that Yahweh, the God of Israel, gave the rule over Israel forever to David and his sons by a covenant of salt?" 
2Chronicles13:6 Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the son of David, rose up and rebelled against his master," 
2Chronicles13:7 and worthless men gathered about him, vile men, who proved too strong for Rehoboam, the son of Solomon; he was young and timid and could not exert his strength before them." 
2Chronicles13:8 “So now you intend to exert your strength before the kingdom of Yahweh by the hand of the sons of David, being a great multitude and having with you the golden calves which Jeroboam made for gods for you." 
2Chronicles13:9 Have you not driven out the priests of Yahweh, the sons of Aaron and the Levites, and made for yourselves priests like the peoples of other lands? Whoever comes to ordain himself with a bull from the herd and seven rams, even he may become a priest of what are no gods." 
2Chronicles13:10 But as for us, Yahweh is our God, and we have not forsaken Him; and the sons of Aaron are ministering to Yahweh as priests, and the Levites are in their work." 
2Chronicles13:11 And every morning and evening they burn to Yahweh burnt offerings and fragrant incense, and the showbread is set on the clean table, and the golden lampstand with its lamps is ready to light every evening; for we keep the responsibility given by Yahweh our God, but you have forsaken Him." 
2Chronicles13:12 And behold, God is with us at our head and His priests with the signal trumpets to raise the shout of war against you. O sons of Israel, do not fight against Yahweh, the God of your fathers, for you will not succeed.”" 
2Chronicles13:13 But Jeroboam had encircled an ambush to come from the rear, so that Israel was in front of Judah and the ambush was behind them." 
2Chronicles13:14 So Judah turned around, and behold, they were attacked both front and rear; so they cried to Yahweh, and the priests blew the trumpets." 
2Chronicles13:15 Then the men of Judah raised a shout of war, and when the men of Judah raised the shout of war, then it was that God smote Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah." 
2Chronicles13:16 So the sons of Israel fled before Judah, and God gave them into their hand." 
2Chronicles13:17 And Abijah and his people struck them down with a great slaughter, and 500,000 chosen men of Israel fell slain." 
2Chronicles13:18 Thus the sons of Israel were subdued at that time, and the sons of Judah were strong because they leaned upon Yahweh, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles13:19 And Abijah pursued Jeroboam and captured from him several cities, Bethel with its towns, Jeshanah with its towns, and Ephron with its towns." 
2Chronicles13:20 Now Jeroboam did not again recover power in the days of Abijah; and Yahweh smote him and he died. 
2Chronicles13:21 But Abijah became stronger; and he took fourteen wives to himself, and became the father of twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters." 
2Chronicles13:22 Now the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways and his words are written in the treatise of the prophet Iddo." 
2Chronicles14:1 So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and Asa his son became king in his place. The land was quiet for ten years during his days." 
2Chronicles14:2 And Asa did what was good and right in the sight of Yahweh his God," 
2Chronicles14:3 for he removed the foreign altars and high places, shattered the sacred pillars, cut the Asherim in pieces," 
2Chronicles14:4 and said for Judah to seek Yahweh, the God of their fathers, and to do the law and the commandment." 
2Chronicles14:5 He also removed the high places and the incense altars from all the cities of Judah. And the kingdom was quiet before him. 
2Chronicles14:6 And he built fortified cities in Judah, since the land was quiet, and there was no one at war with him during those years, because Yahweh had given him rest." 
2Chronicles14:7 And he said to Judah, “Let us build these cities and surround them with walls and towers, gates and bars. The land is still ours because we have sought Yahweh our God; we have sought Him, and He has given us rest on every side.” So they built and succeeded." 
2Chronicles14:8 Now Asa had a military force of 300,000 from Judah, bearing large shields and spears, and 280,000 from Benjamin, bearing shields and wielding bows; all of them were mighty men of valor." 
2Chronicles14:9 Then Zerah the Ethiopian went out against them with a military force of one million men and 300 chariots, and he came to Mareshah." 
2Chronicles14:10 So Asa went out to meet him, and they arranged themselves for battle in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah." 
2Chronicles14:11 Then Asa called to Yahweh his God and said, “Yahweh, there is no one besides You to help in the battle between those of abundant power and those who have no power; so help us, O Yahweh our God, for we lean on You, and in Your name have come against this multitude. O Yahweh, You are our God; let not mortal man prevail against You.”" 
2Chronicles14:12 So Yahweh smote the Ethiopians before Asa and before Judah, and the Ethiopians fled." 
2Chronicles14:13 And Asa and the people who were with him pursued them as far as Gerar; and so many Ethiopians fell that they could not recover, for they were shattered before Yahweh and before His army. And they carried away very much spoil." 
2Chronicles14:14 And they struck down all the cities around Gerar, for the dread of Yahweh had fallen on them; and they plundered all the cities, for there was much plunder in them." 
2Chronicles14:15 They also struck down those who owned livestock, and they carried away large numbers of sheep and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles15:1 Now the Spirit of God came on Azariah the son of Oded," 
2Chronicles15:2 and he went out to meet Asa and said to him, “Listen to me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin: Yahweh is with you when you are with Him. And if you seek Him, He will be found; but if you forsake Him, He will forsake you." 
2Chronicles15:3 Now for many days Israel was without the true God and without a teaching priest and without law. 
2Chronicles15:4 But in their distress they turned to Yahweh, the God of Israel, and they searched for Him, and He was found by them." 
2Chronicles15:5 Now in those times there was no peace to him who went out or to him who came in, for much confusion was upon all the inhabitants of the lands." 
2Chronicles15:6 And nation was crushed by nation, and city by city, for God threw them into confusion with every kind of distress." 
2Chronicles15:7 But you, be strong and do not let your hands fall limp, for there is reward for your work.”" 
2Chronicles15:8 Now when Asa heard these words and the prophecy which Azariah the son of Oded the prophet spoke, he strengthened himself and took away the detestable idols from all the land of Judah and Benjamin and from the cities which he had captured in the hill country of Ephraim. He then renewed the altar of Yahweh which was in front of the porch of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles15:9 And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin and those from Ephraim, Manasseh and Simeon who sojourned with them, for many defected to him from Israel when they saw that Yahweh his God was with him." 
2Chronicles15:10 So they assembled at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year of Asa’s reign. 
2Chronicles15:11 And they sacrificed to Yahweh that day 700 oxen and 7,000 sheep from the spoil they had brought." 
2Chronicles15:12 They entered into the covenant to seek Yahweh, the God of their fathers, with all their heart and soul;" 
2Chronicles15:13 and whoever would not seek Yahweh, the God of Israel, should be put to death, whether small or great, man or woman." 
2Chronicles15:14 Moreover, they swore an oath to Yahweh with a loud voice, with shouting, with trumpets and with horns." 
2Chronicles15:15 All Judah was glad concerning the oath, for they had sworn with their whole heart and had searched for Him with all their desire, and He was found by them. So Yahweh gave them rest on every side." 
2Chronicles15:16 He also removed Maacah, the mother of King Asa, from being queen mother, because she had made a horrid image as an Asherah; and Asa cut down her horrid image, crushed it and burned it at the brook Kidron." 
2Chronicles15:17 But the high places were not removed from Israel; nevertheless Asa’s heart was wholly devoted all his days. 
2Chronicles15:18 And he brought into the house of God the holy things of his father and his own holy things: silver and gold and utensils. 
2Chronicles15:19 And there was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of Asa’s reign. 
2Chronicles16:1 In the thirty-sixth year of Asa’s reign Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and built up Ramah in order to prevent anyone from going out or coming in to Asa king of Judah. 
2Chronicles16:2 Then Asa brought out silver and gold from the treasuries of the house of Yahweh and the king’s house, and sent them to Ben-hadad king of Aram, who lived in Damascus, saying," 
2Chronicles16:3 “Let there be a covenant between you and me, as between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent you silver and gold; go, break your covenant with Baasha king of Israel so that he will withdraw from me.”" 
2Chronicles16:4 So Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his military forces against the cities of Israel, and they struck down Ijon, Dan, Abel-maim, and all the store cities of Naphtali." 
2Chronicles16:5 Now it happened that when Baasha heard of it, he ceased building up Ramah and stopped his work." 
2Chronicles16:6 Then King Asa brought all Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber with which Baasha had been building, and with them he built Geba and Mizpah." 
2Chronicles16:7 Now at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah and said to him, “Because you have leaned on the king of Aram and have not leaned on Yahweh your God, therefore the military force of the king of Aram has escaped out of your hand." 
2Chronicles16:8 Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubim a vast military force with an exceedingly vast number of chariots and horsemen? Yet because you leaned on Yahweh, He gave them into your hand." 
2Chronicles16:9 For the eyes of Yahweh move to and fro throughout the earth that He may strongly support those whose heart is wholly devoted to Him. You have acted foolishly in this. Indeed, from now on you will surely have wars.”" 
2Chronicles16:10 Then Asa was vexed with the seer and put him in prison, for he was enraged at him for this. And Asa oppressed some of the people at the same time." 
2Chronicles16:11 Now behold, the acts of Asa from first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles16:12 And Asa became diseased in his feet in the thirty-ninth year of his reign. His disease was severe, yet even in his disease he did not seek Yahweh, but the physicians." 
2Chronicles16:13 So Asa slept with his fathers. And he died in the forty-first year of his reign. 
2Chronicles16:14 And they buried him in his own tomb which he had cut out for himself in the city of David, and they laid him in the resting place which he had filled with spices of various kinds blended by the perfumers’ art; and they made a very great fire for him." 
2Chronicles17:1 Jehoshaphat his son then became king in his place, and strengthened himself over Israel." 
2Chronicles17:2 And he put military forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and put garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim which Asa his father had captured." 
2Chronicles17:3 And Yahweh was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the ways of his father David’s earlier days and did not seek the Baals," 
2Chronicles17:4 but sought the God of his father, walked in His commandments, and did not act as Israel did." 
2Chronicles17:5 So Yahweh established the kingdom in his hand, and all Judah brought presents to Jehoshaphat, and he had great riches and honor." 
2Chronicles17:6 And his heart took great pride in the ways of Yahweh, and again he took away the high places and the Asherim from Judah." 
2Chronicles17:7 Then in the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah;" 
2Chronicles17:7 Then in the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah;" 
2Chronicles17:7 Then in the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah;" 
2Chronicles17:8 and with them the Levites, Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests." 
2Chronicles17:9 And they taught in Judah, having the book of the law of Yahweh with them; and they went throughout all the cities of Judah and taught among the people." 
2Chronicles17:10 Now the dread of Yahweh was on all the kingdoms of the lands which were around Judah, so that they did not make war against Jehoshaphat." 
2Chronicles17:11 Indeed, some of the Philistines brought presents and silver as their tax burden to Jehoshaphat; the Arabians also brought him flocks, 7,700 rams and 7,700 male goats." 
2Chronicles17:12 So Jehoshaphat grew greater and greater, and he built fortresses and store cities in Judah." 
2Chronicles17:13 And he had large supplies in the cities of Judah, and men of war, mighty men of valor, in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles17:14 This was their muster according to their fathers’ households: of Judah, commanders of thousands, Adnah was the commander, and with him 300,000 mighty men of valor;" 
2Chronicles17:15 and next to him was Johanan the commander, and with him 280,000;" 
2Chronicles17:16 and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who volunteered for Yahweh, and with him 200,000 mighty men of valor;" 
2Chronicles17:17 and of Benjamin, Eliada a mighty man of valor, and with him 200,000 equipped with bow and shield;" 
2Chronicles17:18 and next to him Jehozabad, and with him 180,000 armed for military duty." 
2Chronicles17:19 These are they who attended on the king, apart from those whom the king put in the fortified cities through all Judah." 
2Chronicles18:1 Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honor in abundance; and he allied himself by marriage with Ahab. 
2Chronicles18:2 And some years later he went down to Ahab at Samaria. And Ahab sacrificed sheep and oxen in abundance for him and the people who were with him, and incited him to go up against Ramoth-gilead." 
2Chronicles18:3 And Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, “Will you go with me against Ramoth-gilead?” And he said to him, “I am as you are, and my people as your people, and we will be with you in the battle.”" 
2Chronicles18:4 Moreover, Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “Please inquire first for the word of Yahweh.”" 
2Chronicles18:5 Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets, four hundred men, and said to them, “Shall we go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I refrain?” And they said, “Go up, for God will give it into the hand of the king.”" 
2Chronicles18:6 But Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not yet a prophet of Yahweh here that we may inquire of him?”" 
2Chronicles18:7 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Yahweh, but I hate him, because he never prophesies good concerning me but always evil. He is Micaiah, son of Imla.” But Jehoshaphat said, “Let not the king say so.”" 
2Chronicles18:8 Then the king of Israel called an officer and said, “Hasten to bring Micaiah son of Imla.”" 
2Chronicles18:9 Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting each on his throne, clothed in their royal garments, and they were sitting at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them." 
2Chronicles18:10 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made horns of iron for himself and said, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘With these you shall gore the Arameans until they are consumed.’”" 
2Chronicles18:11 All the prophets were also prophesying thus, saying, “Go up to Ramoth-gilead and succeed, and Yahweh will give it into the hand of the king.”" 
2Chronicles18:12 Now the messenger who went to summon Micaiah spoke to him saying, “Behold, the words of the prophets, as if from one mouth, are good to the king. So please let your word be like one of them and speak that which is good.”" 
2Chronicles18:13 But Micaiah said, “As Yahweh lives, what my God says, that I shall speak.”" 
2Chronicles18:14 Then he came to the king, and the king said to him, “Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I refrain?” And he said, “Go up and succeed, and they will be given into your hand.”" 
2Chronicles18:15 Then the king said to him, “How many times must I make you swear to speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of Yahweh?”" 
2Chronicles18:16 So he said, “I saw all Israel Scattered on the mountains, Like sheep which have no shepherd; And Yahweh said, ‘These have no master. Let each of them return to his house in peace.’”" 
2Chronicles18:17 So the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Did I not say to you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?”" 
2Chronicles18:18 Then Micaiah said, “Therefore, hear the word of Yahweh. I saw Yahweh sitting on His throne, and all the host of heaven standing on His right and on His left." 
2Chronicles18:19 And Yahweh said, ‘Who will entice Ahab king of Israel so that he will go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?’ And one said this while another said that." 
2Chronicles18:20 Then a spirit came forward and stood before Yahweh and said, ‘I will entice him.’ And Yahweh said to him, ‘How?’" 
2Chronicles18:21 And he said, ‘I will go out and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ Then He said, ‘You shall entice him and also prevail. Go out and do so.’" 
2Chronicles18:22 So now, behold, Yahweh has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets, but Yahweh has spoken calamity against you.”" 
2Chronicles18:23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah approached and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, “How did the Spirit of Yahweh pass from me to speak to you?”" 
2Chronicles18:24 And Micaiah said, “Behold, you will see on that day when you enter an inner room to hide.”" 
2Chronicles18:25 Then the king of Israel said, “Take Micaiah and return him to Amon the ruler of the city and to Joash the king’s son;" 
2Chronicles18:26 and say, ‘Thus says the king, “Put this man in prison and feed him sparingly with bread and water until I return safely.”’”" 
2Chronicles18:27 And Micaiah said, “If you indeed return safely, Yahweh has not spoken by me.” And he said, “Listen, all you people.”" 
2Chronicles18:28 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up against Ramoth-gilead. 
2Chronicles18:29 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you put on your garments.” So the king of Israel disguised himself, and they went into battle." 
2Chronicles18:30 Now the king of Aram had commanded the commanders of his chariots, saying, “Do not fight with small or great, but with the king of Israel alone.”" 
2Chronicles18:31 Now it happened that when the commanders of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, “It is the king of Israel,” and they turned to fight against him. But Jehoshaphat cried out, and Yahweh helped him, and God incited them away from him." 
2Chronicles18:32 So it happened that when the commanders of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him." 
2Chronicles18:33 Now a certain man drew his bow at random and struck the king of Israel in a joint of the armor. So he said to the driver of the chariot, “Turn around and take me out of the fight, for I am severely wounded.”" 
2Chronicles18:34 Now the battle raged that day, and the king of Israel propped himself up in his chariot in front of the Arameans until the evening; and at sunset he died." 
2Chronicles19:1 Then Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned in peace to his house in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles19:2 And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him to his face and said to King Jehoshaphat, “Should you help the wicked and love those who hate Yahweh and so bring wrath on yourself from Yahweh?" 
2Chronicles19:3 But some good has been found in you, for you have purged the Asheroth from the land and you have set your heart to seek God.”" 
2Chronicles19:4 So Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem. Indeed, he returned and went out among the people from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim and caused them to return back to Yahweh, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles19:5 And he appointed judges in the land in all the fortified cities of Judah, in each city." 
2Chronicles19:6 And he said to the judges, “Consider what you are doing, for you do not judge for man but for Yahweh who is with you when you render judgment." 
2Chronicles19:7 So now then let the dread of Yahweh be upon you; be careful what you do, because with Yahweh our God there is no unrighteousness or partiality or the taking of a bribe.”" 
2Chronicles19:8 In Jerusalem also Jehoshaphat appointed some of the Levites and priests, and some of the heads of the fathers’ households of Israel, for the judgment of Yahweh and to judge disputes. So they returned to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles19:9 Then he commanded them saying, “Thus you shall do in the fear of Yahweh, faithfully and wholeheartedly." 
2Chronicles19:10 Whenever any dispute comes to you from your brothers who live in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment, statutes and judgments, you shall warn them so that they may not be guilty before Yahweh and wrath may not come on you and your brothers. Thus you shall do, and you will not be guilty." 
2Chronicles19:11 And behold, Amariah the chief priest will be over you in all that pertains to Yahweh, and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Judah, in all that pertains to the king. Also the Levites shall be officers before you. Be strong and act, and Yahweh be with the one who is good.”" 
2Chronicles20:1 Now it happened after this, that the sons of Moab and the sons of Ammon, together with some of the Ammonites, came to make war against Jehoshaphat." 
2Chronicles20:2 Then some came and told Jehoshaphat, saying, “A great multitude is coming against you from beyond the sea, out of Aram and behold, they are in Hazazon-tamar (that is Engedi).”" 
2Chronicles20:3 And Jehoshaphat was afraid and set his face to seek Yahweh, and called for a fast throughout all Judah." 
2Chronicles20:4 So Judah gathered together to seek help from Yahweh; they even came from all the cities of Judah to seek Yahweh. 
2Chronicles20:5 Then Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of Yahweh before the new court," 
2Chronicles20:6 and he said, “O Yahweh, the God of our fathers, are You not God in the heavens? And are You not ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations? Power and might are in Your hand so that no one can take their stand against You." 
2Chronicles20:7 Did You not, O our God, dispossess the inhabitants of this land before Your people Israel and give it to the seed of Abraham Your friend forever?" 
2Chronicles20:8 And they have lived in it, and have built You a sanctuary there for Your name, saying," 
2Chronicles20:9 ‘Should evil come upon us, the sword, or judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house and before You (for Your name is in this house) and cry to You in our distress, and You will hear and save us.’" 
2Chronicles20:10 So now, behold, the sons of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, whom You did not let Israel invade when they came out of the land of Egypt (they turned aside from them and did not destroy them)," 
2Chronicles20:11 and behold, they are rewarding us by coming to drive us out from Your possession which You have caused us to possess." 
2Chronicles20:12 O our God, will You not judge them? For we are powerless before this great multitude who are coming against us; and we do not know what we should do, but our eyes are on You.”" 
2Chronicles20:13 Now all Judah was standing before Yahweh, with their little ones, their wives, and their children." 
2Chronicles20:14 Then in the midst of the assembly the Spirit of Yahweh came upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, the Levite of the sons of Asaph;" 
2Chronicles20:14 Then in the midst of the assembly the Spirit of Yahweh came upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, the Levite of the sons of Asaph;" 
2Chronicles20:15 and he said, “Pay attention, all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem and King Jehoshaphat: thus says Yahweh to you, ‘Do not fear or be dismayed because of this great multitude, for the battle is not yours but God’s." 
2Chronicles20:16 Tomorrow go down against them. Behold, they will come up by the ascent of Ziz, and you will find them at the end of the valley in front of the wilderness of Jeruel." 
2Chronicles20:17 You need not fight in this battle; take your stand—stand and see the salvation of Yahweh on your behalf, O Judah and Jerusalem.’ Do not fear or be dismayed; tomorrow go out to face them, for Yahweh is with you.”" 
2Chronicles20:18 So Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before Yahweh, worshiping Yahweh." 
2Chronicles20:19 Then the Levites, from the sons of the Kohathites and of the sons of the Korahites, rose up to praise Yahweh, the God of Israel, with a very loud voice." 
2Chronicles20:20 And they rose early in the morning and went out to the wilderness of Tekoa; and when they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, “Listen to me, O Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, establish your faith in Yahweh your God and you will be established. Establish your faith in His prophets and succeed.”" 
2Chronicles20:21 When he had taken counsel with the people, he caused those who sang to Yahweh and those who praised Him to stand in holy attire, as they went out before the army, saying, “Give thanks to Yahweh, for His lovingkindness endures forever.”" 
2Chronicles20:22 When they began singing for joy and praising, Yahweh set ambushes against the sons of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, who had come against Judah; so they were defeated." 
2Chronicles20:23 Indeed, the sons of Ammon and Moab stood against the inhabitants of Mount Seir to devote them to destruction and to utterly eradicate them; and when they had finished with the inhabitants of Seir, they helped to bring one another to ruin." 
2Chronicles20:24 Now Judah came to the lookout of the wilderness, and they turned toward the multitude, and behold, they were corpses fallen on the ground, and no one had escaped." 
2Chronicles20:25 So Jehoshaphat and his people came to take their spoil and found much among them, including goods, garments, and valuable things which they took for themselves, more than they could carry. And they were three days taking the spoil because there was so much." 
2Chronicles20:26 Then on the fourth day they assembled in the valley of Beracah, for there they blessed Yahweh. Therefore they have named that place “The Valley of Beracah” until today." 
2Chronicles20:27 And every man of Judah and Jerusalem returned with Jehoshaphat at their head, returning to Jerusalem with gladness, for Yahweh had made them glad over their enemies." 
2Chronicles20:28 And they came to Jerusalem with harps, lyres, and trumpets to the house of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles20:29 And the dread of God was on all the kingdoms of the lands when they heard that Yahweh had fought against the enemies of Israel. 
2Chronicles20:30 So the kingdom of Jehoshaphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest all around." 
2Chronicles20:31 Thus Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem twenty-five years. And his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi." 
2Chronicles20:32 And he walked in the way of his father Asa and did not turn away from it, doing what is right in the sight of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles20:33 The high places, however, were not taken away; the people had not yet set their hearts to the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles20:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first to last, behold, they are written in the chronicles of Jehu the son of Hanani, which is recorded in the Book of the Kings of Israel." 
2Chronicles20:35 Afterwards, Jehoshaphat king of Judah allied himself with Ahaziah king of Israel. He acted wickedly in so doing." 
2Chronicles20:36 So he allied himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish, and they made the ships in Ezion-geber." 
2Chronicles20:37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat saying, “Because you have allied yourself with Ahaziah, Yahweh has destroyed your works.” So the ships were broken and could not go to Tarshish." 
2Chronicles21:1 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, and Jehoram his son became king in his place." 
2Chronicles21:2 Now he had brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azaryahu, Michael, and Shephatiah. All these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel." 
2Chronicles21:2 Now he had brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azaryahu, Michael, and Shephatiah. All these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel." 
2Chronicles21:3 And their father gave them many gifts of silver, gold, and precious things, with fortified cities in Judah, but he gave the kingdom to Jehoram because he was the firstborn." 
2Chronicles21:4 So Jehoram arose over the kingdom of his father and strengthened himself, and he killed all his brothers with the sword, and some of the commanders of Israel also." 
2Chronicles21:5 Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles21:6 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, just as the house of Ahab had done, for Ahab’s daughter was his wife; and he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles21:7 However, Yahweh was not willing to make the house of David a ruin because of the covenant which He had cut with David, and since He had promised to give a lamp to him and his sons forever." 
2Chronicles21:8 In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah and made a king over themselves. 
2Chronicles21:9 Then Jehoram crossed over with his commanders and all his chariots with him. And he arose by night and struck down the Edomites who were surrounding him and the commanders of the chariots. 
2Chronicles21:10 So Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time from under his hand, because he had forsaken Yahweh, the God of his fathers." 
2Chronicles21:11 Moreover, he made high places in the mountains of Judah, and caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to play the harlot and drove Judah astray." 
2Chronicles21:12 Then a letter came to him from Elijah the prophet saying, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of your father David, ‘Because you have not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat your father and the ways of Asa king of Judah," 
2Chronicles21:13 but have walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and have caused Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to play the harlot as the house of Ahab played the harlot, and you have also killed your brothers, your own family, who were better than you," 
2Chronicles21:14 behold, Yahweh is going to smite your people, your sons, your wives, and all your possessions with a great calamity;" 
2Chronicles21:15 and you will suffer severe sickness, a disease of your bowels, until your bowels come out because of the sickness, day by day.’”" 
2Chronicles21:16 Then Yahweh stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines and the Arabs who bordered the Ethiopians; 
2Chronicles21:17 and they went up against Judah and invaded it, and carried away all the possessions found in the king’s house together with his sons and his wives, so that no son was left to him except Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons." 
2Chronicles21:18 So after all this Yahweh smote him in his bowels with an incurable sickness. 
2Chronicles21:19 Now it happened in the course of time, at the end of two years, that his bowels came out because of his sickness and he died with this greatly painful disease. And his people made no fire for him like the fire for his fathers." 
2Chronicles21:20 He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years; and he departed with no one’s regret, and they buried him in the city of David, but not in the tombs of the kings." 
2Chronicles22:1 Then the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah, his youngest son, king in his place, for the band of men who came with the Arabs to the camp had killed all the older sons. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah became king." 
2Chronicles22:2 Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Athaliah, the granddaughter of Omri." 
2Chronicles22:3 He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his counselor to do wickedly." 
2Chronicles22:4 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh like the house of Ahab, for they were his counselors after the death of his father, to his destruction." 
2Chronicles22:5 He also walked according to their counsel, and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to wage war against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth-gilead. But the Arameans struck Joram." 
2Chronicles22:6 So he returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which they caused by striking him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Aram. And Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram king of Judah, went down to see Jehoram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick." 
2Chronicles22:7 Now the downfall of Ahaziah was from God, in that he went to Joram. And when he came, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son of Nimshi, whom Yahweh had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab." 
2Chronicles22:8 Now it happened when Jehu was executing judgment on the house of Ahab, he found the princes of Judah and the sons of Ahaziah’s brothers attending to Ahaziah, and killed them." 
2Chronicles22:9 And he sought Ahaziah, and they caught him while he was hiding himself in Samaria; they brought him to Jehu, put him to death, and buried him. For they said, “He is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought Yahweh with all his heart.” So there was no one of the house of Ahaziah to retain the power of the kingdom." 
2Chronicles22:10 Now Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son had died. So she rose and destroyed all the royal seed of the house of Judah. 
2Chronicles22:11 But Jehoshabeath the king’s daughter took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king’s sons who were being put to death, and put him and his nurse in the bedroom. So Jehoshabeath, the daughter of King Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest (for she was the sister of Ahaziah), hid him from Athaliah, so she did not put him to death." 
2Chronicles22:12 So he was hidden with them in the house of God six years while Athaliah was reigning over the land. 
2Chronicles23:1 Now in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took commanders of hundreds: Azariah the son of Jeroham, Ishmael the son of Johanan, Azariah the son of Obed, Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, and they entered into a covenant with him." 
2Chronicles23:2 And they went around Judah and gathered the Levites from all the cities of Judah, and the heads of the fathers’ households of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles23:3 Then all the assembly cut a covenant with the king in the house of God. And Jehoiada said to them, “Behold, the king’s son shall reign, as Yahweh has spoken concerning the sons of David." 
2Chronicles23:4 This is the thing which you shall do: one-third of you, of the priests and Levites who come in on the sabbath, shall be gatekeepers at the thresholds," 
2Chronicles23:5 and one-third shall be at the king’s house, and a third at the Gate of the Foundation; and all the people shall be in the courts of the house of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles23:6 But let no one enter the house of Yahweh except the priests and the ministering Levites; they may enter, for they are holy. And let all the people keep the charge of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles23:7 And the Levites will surround the king, each man with his weapons in his hand; and whoever enters the house, let him be put to death. And be with the king when he comes in and when he goes out.”" 
2Chronicles23:8 So the Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded. And each one of them took his men who were to come in on the sabbath, with those who were to go out on the sabbath, for Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss any of the divisions." 
2Chronicles23:9 Then Jehoiada the priest gave to the commanders of hundreds the spears and the shields and small shields which had been King David’s, which were in the house of God." 
2Chronicles23:10 And he caused all the people to stand, each man with his weapon in his hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, by the altar and by the house, around the king." 
2Chronicles23:11 Then they brought out the king’s son and put the crown on him, and gave him the testimony and made him king. And Jehoiada and his sons anointed him and said, “Long live the king!”" 
2Chronicles23:12 Then Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, so she came into the house of Yahweh to the people." 
2Chronicles23:13 And she looked, and behold, the king was standing by his pillar at the entrance, and the commanders and the trumpeters were beside the king. And all the people of the land were glad and blew trumpets, the singers with their musical instruments leading the praise. Then Athaliah tore her clothes and said, “Treason! Treason!”" 
2Chronicles23:14 Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the commanders of hundreds who were appointed over the military force and said to them, “Bring her out between the ranks; and whoever follows her, let him be put to death with the sword.” For the priest said, “You shall not put her to death in the house of Yahweh.”" 
2Chronicles23:15 So they laid hands on her, and when she arrived at the entrance of the Horse Gate of the king’s house, they put her to death there." 
2Chronicles23:16 Then Jehoiada cut a covenant between himself and all the people and the king, that they would be the people of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles23:17 And all the people came to the house of Baal and tore it down, and his altars and his images they broke in pieces, and they killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars." 
2Chronicles23:18 And Jehoiada placed the assignments concerning the house of Yahweh in the hand of the Levitical priests, whom David had divided by lot to be over the house of Yahweh, to offer the burnt offerings of Yahweh, as it is written in the law of Moses—with gladness and singing according to the order of David." 
2Chronicles23:19 And he caused the gatekeepers of the house of Yahweh to stand, so that no one would enter who was in any way unclean." 
2Chronicles23:20 And he took the commanders of hundreds, the nobles, the rulers of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought the king down from the house of Yahweh, and they came through the upper gate to the king’s house. And they sat the king upon the royal throne." 
2Chronicles23:21 So all of the people of the land were glad, and the city was quiet. For they had put Athaliah to death with the sword." 
2Chronicles24:1 Joash was seven years old when he became king, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Zibiah from Beersheba." 
2Chronicles24:2 And Joash did what was right in the sight of Yahweh all the days of Jehoiada the priest. 
2Chronicles24:3 And Jehoiada took up two wives for him, and he became the father of sons and daughters." 
2Chronicles24:4 Now it happened afterwards, that Joash had in his heart to restore the house of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles24:5 And he gathered the priests and Levites and said to them, “Go out to the cities of Judah and gather money from all Israel to repair the house of your God annually, and you shall do the matter quickly.” But the Levites did not act quickly." 
2Chronicles24:6 So the king called for Jehoiada the chief priest and said to him, “Why have you not required the Levites to bring in from Judah and from Jerusalem the levy fixed by Moses the servant of Yahweh on the congregation of Israel for the tent of the testimony?”" 
2Chronicles24:7 For the sons of the wicked Athaliah had broken into the house of God and even used the holy things of the house of Yahweh for the Baals. 
2Chronicles24:8 So the king said the word, and they made a chest and put it outside by the gate of the house of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles24:9 And they made a proclamation in Judah and Jerusalem to bring to Yahweh the levy fixed by Moses the servant of God on Israel in the wilderness. 
2Chronicles24:10 And all the officials and all the people were glad and brought in their levies and dropped them into the chest until they had finished. 
2Chronicles24:11 Now it happened that whenever the chest was brought in to the king’s officer by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw that there was much money, then the king’s scribe and the chief priest’s officer would come, empty the chest, take it, and return it to its place. Thus they did daily and collected much money." 
2Chronicles24:12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to those who did the work of the service of the house of Yahweh; and they hired masons and carpenters to restore the house of Yahweh, and also craftsmen in iron and bronze to repair the house of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles24:13 So those who did the work labored, and the repair work progressed in their hands, and they restored the house of God according to its specifications and strengthened it." 
2Chronicles24:14 When they had completed, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada; and it was made into utensils for the house of Yahweh, utensils for the ministry and the burnt offering, and pans and utensils of gold and silver. And they were offering burnt offerings in the house of Yahweh continually all the days of Jehoiada." 
2Chronicles24:15 Then Jehoiada became old and full of days, and he died; he was 130 years old at his death." 
2Chronicles24:16 They buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done what is good in Israel and to God and His house." 
2Chronicles24:17 But after the death of Jehoiada the officials of Judah came and bowed down to the king, and the king listened to them." 
2Chronicles24:18 And they forsook the house of Yahweh, the God of their fathers, and served the Asherim and the idols; so wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this their guilt." 
2Chronicles24:19 Yet He sent prophets to them to bring them back to Yahweh; though they testified against them, they did not give ear." 
2Chronicles24:20 Now the Spirit of God clothed Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest; and he stood above the people and said to them, “Thus says God, ‘Why do you trespass against the commandments of Yahweh and do not succeed? Because you have forsaken Yahweh, He has also forsaken you.’”" 
2Chronicles24:20 Now the Spirit of God clothed Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest; and he stood above the people and said to them, “Thus says God, ‘Why do you trespass against the commandments of Yahweh and do not succeed? Because you have forsaken Yahweh, He has also forsaken you.’”" 
2Chronicles24:21 So they conspired against him and at the command of the king they stoned him to death in the court of the house of Yahweh. 
2Chronicles24:22 Thus Joash the king did not remember the lovingkindness which his father Jehoiada had shown him, but he killed his son. And as he died he said, “May Yahweh see and avenge!”" 
2Chronicles24:23 Now it happened at the turn of the year that the military force of the Arameans came up against him; and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, destroyed all the officials of the people from among the people, and sent all their spoil to the king of Damascus." 
2Chronicles24:24 Indeed the military force of the Arameans came with a small number of men; yet Yahweh gave a very great military force into their hands, because they had forsaken Yahweh, the God of their fathers. Thus they executed judgment on Joash." 
2Chronicles24:25 When they had gone from him (for they left him very sick), his servants conspired against him because of the blood of the son of Jehoiada the priest, and killed him on his bed. So he died, and they buried him in the city of David, but they did not bury him in the tombs of the kings." 
2Chronicles24:26 Now these are those who conspired against him: Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith the Moabitess." 
2Chronicles24:27 Now as to his sons and the many oracles against him and the rebuilding of the house of God, behold, they are written in the treatise of the Book of the Kings. Then Amaziah his son became king in his place." 
2Chronicles25:1 Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles25:2 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, yet not with a whole heart." 
2Chronicles25:3 Now it happened as soon as the kingdom was strong in his grasp, that he killed his servants who had struck down the king his father." 
2Chronicles25:4 But he did not put their sons to death, but did as it is written in the law in the book of Moses, which Yahweh commanded, saying, “Fathers shall not be put to death for their sons, nor sons be put to death for their fathers, but each shall be put to death for his own sin.”" 
2Chronicles25:5 Moreover, Amaziah assembled Judah and appointed them according to their fathers’ households under commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds throughout Judah and Benjamin; and he took a census of those from twenty years old and upward and found them to be 300,000 choice men, able to go out for military duty, able to handle spear and large shield." 
2Chronicles25:6 And he hired also 100,000 mighty men of valor out of Israel for one hundred talents of silver." 
2Chronicles25:7 But a man of God came to him saying, “O king, do not let the army of Israel go with you, for Yahweh is not with Israel nor with any of the sons of Ephraim." 
2Chronicles25:8 But if you do go, do it, be strong for the battle; yet God will cause you to stumble before the enemy, for God has power to help and to cause to stumble.”" 
2Chronicles25:9 Then Amaziah said to the man of God, “But what shall we do for the hundred talents which I have given to the troops of Israel?” And the man of God answered, “Yahweh has much more to give you than this.”" 
2Chronicles25:10 Then Amaziah dismissed them, the troops which came to him from Ephraim, to go home; so their anger burned against Judah and they returned home in burning anger." 
2Chronicles25:11 Now Amaziah strengthened himself and led his people forth, and went to the Valley of Salt and struck down 10,000 of the sons of Seir." 
2Chronicles25:12 The sons of Judah also captured 10,000 alive and brought them to the top of the cliff and threw them down from the top of the cliff, so that they were all split open." 
2Chronicles25:13 But the troops whom Amaziah sent back from going with him to battle, raided the cities of Judah, from Samaria to Beth-horon, and struck down 3,000 of them and plundered much plunder." 
2Chronicles25:14 Now it happened that after Amaziah came from striking down the Edomites, he brought the gods of the sons of Seir, set them up as his gods, worshiped them, and burned incense to them." 
2Chronicles25:15 Then the anger of Yahweh burned against Amaziah, and He sent him a prophet who said to him, “Why have you sought the gods of the people who have not delivered their own people from your hand?”" 
2Chronicles25:16 Now it happened that as he was talking with him, the king said to him, “Have we given you to be a royal counselor? Stop! Why should you be struck down?” Then the prophet stopped and said, “I know that God has counseled to destroy you, because you have done this and have not listened to my counsel.”" 
2Chronicles25:17 Then Amaziah king of Judah took counsel and sent to Joash the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu, the king of Israel, saying, “Come, let us face each other.”" 
2Chronicles25:18 And Joash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, “The thorn bush which was in Lebanon sent to the cedar which was in Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son as a wife.’ But a beast of the field that was in Lebanon passed by and trampled the thorn bush." 
2Chronicles25:19 You said, ‘Behold, you have struck down Edom.’ And your heart has lifted you up to boast. Now stay at home; for why should you provoke calamity so that you, even you, would fall and Judah with you?”" 
2Chronicles25:20 But Amaziah would not listen, for it was from God, that He might give them into the hand of Joash because they had sought the gods of Edom." 
2Chronicles25:21 So Joash king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah king of Judah faced each other at Beth-shemesh, which belonged to Judah." 
2Chronicles25:22 And Judah was defeated by Israel, and they fled each to his tent." 
2Chronicles25:23 Then Joash king of Israel seized Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth-shemesh, and brought him to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the Gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, 400 cubits." 
2Chronicles25:24 And he took all the gold and silver and all the utensils which were found in the house of God with Obed-edom, and the treasures of the king’s house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria." 
2Chronicles25:25 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel. 
2Chronicles25:26 Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, from first to last, behold, are they not written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel?" 
2Chronicles25:27 Now from the time that Amaziah turned away from following Yahweh they conspired against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish; but they sent after him to Lachish and put him to death there." 
2Chronicles25:28 Then they carried him on horses and buried him with his fathers in the city of Judah. 
2Chronicles26:1 And all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the place of his father Amaziah." 
2Chronicles26:2 He built Eloth and restored it to Judah after the king slept with his fathers. 
2Chronicles26:3 Uzziah was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Jechiliah of Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles26:4 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his father Amaziah had done." 
2Chronicles26:5 And he continued to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding through the vision of God; and as long as he sought Yahweh, God made him succeed." 
2Chronicles26:5 And he continued to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding through the vision of God; and as long as he sought Yahweh, God made him succeed." 
2Chronicles26:6 Then he went out and fought against the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath and the wall of Jabneh and the wall of Ashdod; and he built cities in the area of Ashdod and among the Philistines." 
2Chronicles26:7 And God helped him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians who lived in Gur-baal, and the Meunites." 
2Chronicles26:8 The Ammonites also gave tribute to Uzziah, and his fame extended to the border of Egypt, for he became very strong." 
2Chronicles26:9 Moreover, Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate and at the Valley Gate and at the corner buttress and strengthened them." 
2Chronicles26:10 He also built towers in the wilderness and hewed many cisterns, for he had much livestock, both in the Shephelah and in the plain. He also had plowmen and vinedressers in the hill country and the fertile fields, for he loved the soil." 
2Chronicles26:11 Moreover, Uzziah had a military force which could wage war, which went out for military duty by divisions according to the number of their muster, prepared by the hand of Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king’s officials." 
2Chronicles26:12 The total number of the heads of the households, of mighty men of valor, was 2,600." 
2Chronicles26:13 And under their hand was a mighty army of 307,500, who could wage war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy." 
2Chronicles26:14 Moreover, Uzziah prepared for all the army shields, spears, helmets, body armor, bows, and stones for sling." 
2Chronicles26:15 In Jerusalem he also made devices of war devised by skillful designers to be on the towers and on the corners for the purpose of shooting arrows and great stones. Hence his fame spread afar, for he was marvelously helped until he was strong." 
2Chronicles26:16 But when he became strong, his heart was so proud that he acted corruptly, and he was unfaithful to Yahweh his God. And he entered the temple of Yahweh to burn incense on the altar of incense." 
2Chronicles26:17 Then Azariah the priest entered after him and with him eighty priests of Yahweh, men of valor." 
2Chronicles26:18 And they stood against Uzziah the king and said to him, “It is not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to Yahweh, but for the priests, the sons of Aaron who are set apart as holy to burn incense. Get out of the sanctuary, for you have been unfaithful and will have no honor from Yahweh God.”" 
2Chronicles26:19 But Uzziah, with a censer in his hand for burning incense, was enraged; and while he was enraged with the priests, the leprosy broke out on his forehead before the priests in the house of Yahweh, beside the altar of incense." 
2Chronicles26:20 And Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked at him, and behold, he was leprous on his forehead; and they hurried him out of there, and he himself also hastened to get out because Yahweh had smitten him." 
2Chronicles26:21 So King Uzziah was a leper to the day of his death; and he lived in a separate house, being a leper, for he was cut off from the house of Yahweh. And Jotham his son was over the king’s house, judging the people of the land." 
2Chronicles26:22 Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first to last, the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz, has written." 
2Chronicles26:22 Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first to last, the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz, has written." 
2Chronicles26:23 So Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the field of the grave which belonged to the kings, for they said, “He is a leper.” And Jotham his son became king in his place." 
2Chronicles27:1 Jotham was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok." 
2Chronicles27:2 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that his father Uzziah had done; however he did not enter the temple of Yahweh. But the people continued acting corruptly." 
2Chronicles27:3 He built the upper gate of the house of Yahweh, and he built extensively the wall of Ophel." 
2Chronicles27:4 Moreover, he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and he built fortresses and towers on the wooded hills." 
2Chronicles27:5 He fought also with the king of the sons of Ammon and prevailed over them. So the sons of Ammon gave him during that year 100 talents of silver, 10,000 kors of wheat, and 10,000 of barley. The sons of Ammon also brought back to him this amount in the second and in the third year." 
2Chronicles27:6 So Jotham became strong because he established his ways before Yahweh his God. 
2Chronicles27:7 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, even all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah." 
2Chronicles27:8 He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles27:9 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and Ahaz his son became king in his place." 
2Chronicles28:1 Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem; and he did not do what was right in the sight of Yahweh, as David his father had done." 
2Chronicles28:2 But he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel; he also made molten images for the Baals. 
2Chronicles28:3 Moreover, he offered offerings in smoke in the valley of Ben-hinnom and burned his sons in the fire, according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh had dispossessed from before the sons of Israel." 
2Chronicles28:4 He also sacrificed and offered offerings in smoke on the high places and on the hills and under every green tree. 
2Chronicles28:5 So, Yahweh his God gave him into the hand of the king of Aram; and they struck him and carried away from him a great number of captives and brought them to Damascus. And he was also given into the hand of the king of Israel, who struck him with a great slaughter." 
2Chronicles28:6 Indeed, Pekah the son of Remaliah killed in Judah 120,000 in one day, all men of valor, because they had forsaken Yahweh, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles28:7 And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, killed Maaseiah the king’s son and Azrikam the ruler of the house and Elkanah the second to the king." 
2Chronicles28:8 Then the sons of Israel carried away captive of their brothers 200,000 women, sons, and daughters; and they plundered also a great deal of spoil from them and brought the spoil to Samaria." 
2Chronicles28:9 But a prophet of Yahweh was there, whose name was Oded; and he went out before the army which came to Samaria and said to them, “Behold, because of the wrath of Yahweh, the God of your fathers, against Judah, He has given them into your hand, and you have killed them in a rage which has even reached heaven." 
2Chronicles28:10 So now you are intending to subdue for yourselves the people of Judah and Jerusalem for male and female slaves. Surely, do you not have your own matters of guilt against Yahweh your God?" 
2Chronicles28:11 So now, listen to me and return the captives whom you carried away from your brothers, for the burning anger of Yahweh is against you.”" 
2Chronicles28:12 Then some of the heads of the sons of Ephraim—Azariah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai—arose against those who were coming from the engagement of the army," 
2Chronicles28:13 and said to them, “You must not bring the captives in here, for you are intending to bring upon us guilt against Yahweh adding to our sins and our guilt; for our guilt is great so that His burning anger is against Israel.”" 
2Chronicles28:14 So the armed men left the captives and the plunder before the commanders and all the assembly. 
2Chronicles28:15 Then the men who were designated by name arose, took hold of the captives, and they clothed all their naked ones from the spoil; and they gave them clothes and sandals, fed them and gave them drink, anointed them with oil, led all their feeble ones on donkeys, and brought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brothers; then they returned to Samaria." 
2Chronicles28:16 At that time King Ahaz sent to the kings of Assyria for help. 
2Chronicles28:17 Indeed, again the Edomites had come and struck Judah and carried away captives." 
2Chronicles28:18 And the Philistines also had raided the cities of the Shephelah and of the Negev of Judah, and had captured Beth-shemesh, Aijalon, Gederoth, and Soco with its towns, Timnah with its towns, and Gimzo with its towns, and they settled there." 
2Chronicles28:19 For Yahweh humbled Judah because of Ahaz king of Israel, for he had caused it to be out of control in Judah and was very unfaithful to Yahweh." 
2Chronicles28:20 So Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria came against him and distressed him instead of strengthening him. 
2Chronicles28:21 Although Ahaz took a portion out of the house of Yahweh and out of the house of the king and of the princes, and gave it to the king of Assyria, it did not help him." 
2Chronicles28:22 Now in the time of his distress this same King Ahaz became yet more unfaithful to Yahweh. 
2Chronicles28:23 Indeed, he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus which had struck him, and said, “Because the gods of the kings of Aram helped them, I will sacrifice to them that they may help me.” But they became the stumbling of him and all Israel." 
2Chronicles28:24 Ahaz gathered together the utensils of the house of God. Then he cut the utensils of the house of God in pieces; and he closed the doors of the house of Yahweh and made altars for himself in every corner of Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles28:25 Now in each and every city of Judah he made high places to offer offerings in smoke to other gods, and provoked Yahweh, the God of his fathers, to anger." 
2Chronicles28:26 Now the rest of his acts and all his ways, from first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles28:27 So Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, in Jerusalem, for they did not bring him into the tombs of the kings of Israel; and Hezekiah his son became king in his place." 
2Chronicles29:1 Hezekiah became king when he was twenty-five years old; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah." 
2Chronicles29:1 Hezekiah became king when he was twenty-five years old; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah." 
2Chronicles29:2 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that David his father had done." 
2Chronicles29:3 In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of the house of Yahweh and repaired them." 
2Chronicles29:4 And he brought in the priests and the Levites and gathered them into the square on the east. 
2Chronicles29:5 Then he said to them, “Listen to me, O Levites. Set yourselves apart now as holy, and set apart as holy the house of Yahweh, the God of your fathers, and bring out the impurity from the holy place." 
2Chronicles29:6 For our fathers have been unfaithful and have done what is evil in the sight of Yahweh our God, and have forsaken Him and turned their faces away from the dwelling place of Yahweh, and have turned their backs." 
2Chronicles29:7 They have also shut the doors of the porch and put out the lamps, and have not burned incense or offered burnt offerings in the holy place to the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles29:8 Therefore the wrath of Yahweh was against Judah and Jerusalem, and He has made them an object of terror, of horror, and of hissing, as you see with your own eyes." 
2Chronicles29:9 And behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this." 
2Chronicles29:10 Now it is in my heart to cut a covenant with Yahweh, the God of Israel, that His burning anger may turn away from us." 
2Chronicles29:11 My sons, do not be at ease now, for Yahweh has chosen you to stand before Him, to minister to Him, and to be His ministers and offer offerings up in smoke.”" 
2Chronicles29:12 Then the Levites arose: Mahath, the son of Amasai and Joel the son of Azariah, from the sons of the Kohathites; and from the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi and Azariah the son of Jehallelel; and from the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah and Eden the son of Joah;" 
2Chronicles29:12 Then the Levites arose: Mahath, the son of Amasai and Joel the son of Azariah, from the sons of the Kohathites; and from the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi and Azariah the son of Jehallelel; and from the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah and Eden the son of Joah;" 
2Chronicles29:13 and from the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeiel; and from the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah;" 
2Chronicles29:13 and from the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeiel; and from the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah;" 
2Chronicles29:14 and from the sons of Heman, Jehiel and Shimei; and from the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel." 
2Chronicles29:15 And they gathered their brothers, set themselves apart as holy, and went in to cleanse the house of Yahweh, according to the commandment of the king by the words of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles29:16 So the priests went in to the inner part of the house of Yahweh to cleanse it, and every unclean thing which they found in the temple of Yahweh they brought out to the court of the house of Yahweh. Then the Levites received it to bring out to the Kidron valley, to an outer area." 
2Chronicles29:17 Then they began to set it apart as holy on the first day of the first month, and on the eighth day of the month they entered the porch of Yahweh. Then they set apart the house of Yahweh as holy in eight days, and completed it on the sixteenth day of the first month." 
2Chronicles29:18 Then they went in to King Hezekiah and said, “We have cleansed the whole house of Yahweh, the altar of burnt offering with all of its utensils, and the table of showbread with all of its utensils." 
2Chronicles29:19 Moreover, all the utensils which King Ahaz had rejected during his reign in his unfaithfulness, we have prepared and set apart as holy; and behold, they are before the altar of Yahweh.”" 
2Chronicles29:20 Then King Hezekiah arose early and gathered the princes of the city and went up to the house of Yahweh. 
2Chronicles29:21 And they brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven lambs, and seven male goats for a sin offering for the kingdom, the sanctuary, and Judah. And he ordered the priests, the sons of Aaron, to offer them on the altar of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles29:22 So they slaughtered the bulls, and the priests took the blood and splashed it on the altar. They also slaughtered the rams and splashed the blood on the altar; they slaughtered the lambs also and splashed the blood on the altar." 
2Chronicles29:23 Then they had the male goats of the sin offering approach before the king and the assembly, and they laid their hands on them." 
2Chronicles29:24 And the priests slaughtered them and purged the altar with their blood to atone for all Israel, for the king ordered the burnt offering and the sin offering for all Israel." 
2Chronicles29:25 He then caused the Levites to stand in the house of Yahweh with cymbals, with harps, and with lyres, according to the command of David and of Gad the king’s seer, and of Nathan the prophet; for the command was from Yahweh by the hand of His prophets." 
2Chronicles29:26 And the Levites stood with the musical instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets." 
2Chronicles29:27 Then Hezekiah said to offer the burnt offering on the altar. When the burnt offering began, the song to Yahweh also began with the trumpets, accompanied by the instruments of David, king of Israel." 
2Chronicles29:28 While the whole assembly worshiped, the singers also sang and the trumpets sounded; all this continued until the burnt offering was completed." 
2Chronicles29:29 Now at the completion of the burnt offerings, the king and all who were present with him bowed down and worshiped." 
2Chronicles29:30 Moreover, King Hezekiah and the officials ordered the Levites to sing praises to Yahweh with the words of David and Asaph the seer. So they sang praises with gladness, and bowed down and worshiped." 
2Chronicles29:31 Then Hezekiah answered and said, “Now that you have become ordained to Yahweh, approach and bring sacrifices and thank offerings to the house of Yahweh.” And the assembly brought sacrifices and thank offerings, and all those who were willing of heart brought burnt offerings." 
2Chronicles29:32 And the number of the burnt offerings which the assembly brought was 70 bulls, 100 rams, and 200 lambs; all these were for a burnt offering to Yahweh." 
2Chronicles29:33 And the holy things were 600 bulls and 3,000 sheep." 
2Chronicles29:34 But the priests were too few, so that they were unable to skin all the burnt offerings; therefore their brothers the Levites helped them until the work was completed and until the other priests had set themselves apart as holy. For the Levites were more upright of heart to set themselves apart as holy than the priests." 
2Chronicles29:35 There were also many burnt offerings with the fat of the peace offerings and with the drink offerings for the burnt offerings. Thus the service of the house of Yahweh was established again. 
2Chronicles29:36 Then Hezekiah and all the people were glad over what God had prepared for the people, because the thing came about suddenly." 
2Chronicles30:1 And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of Yahweh at Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover to Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles30:2 And the king and his princes and all the assembly in Jerusalem had taken counsel to celebrate the Passover in the second month," 
2Chronicles30:3 since they could not celebrate it at that time, because the priests had not set themselves apart as holy in sufficient numbers, nor had the people been gathered to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles30:4 Thus the thing was right in the eyes of the king and in the eyes of all the assembly. 
2Chronicles30:5 So they established a decree to make a proclamation pass throughout all Israel from Beersheba even to Dan, that they should come to celebrate the Passover to Yahweh, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem. For they had not celebrated it in great numbers as it was written." 
2Chronicles30:6 And the couriers went throughout all Israel and Judah with the letters from the hand of the king and his princes, even according to the commandment of the king, saying, “O sons of Israel, return to Yahweh, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, that He may return to those of you who escaped and remain from the hand of the kings of Assyria." 
2Chronicles30:7 Now do not be like your fathers and your brothers, who were unfaithful to Yahweh, the God of their fathers, so that He made them an object of horror, as you see." 
2Chronicles30:8 Now do not stiffen your neck like your fathers, but give your hand to Yahweh and enter His sanctuary which He has set apart as holy forever, and serve Yahweh your God, that His burning anger may turn away from you." 
2Chronicles30:9 For when you return to Yahweh, your brothers and your sons will find compassion before those who led them captive and will return to this land. For Yahweh your God is gracious and compassionate, and will not turn His face away from you if you return to Him.”" 
2Chronicles30:10 So the couriers passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh, and as far as Zebulun, but they were laughing at them to scorn and mocking them." 
2Chronicles30:11 Nevertheless some men of Asher, Manasseh and Zebulun humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles30:12 The hand of God was also on Judah to give them one heart to do what the king and the princes commanded by the word of Yahweh. 
2Chronicles30:13 Now many people were gathered at Jerusalem to celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread in the second month, a very large assembly." 
2Chronicles30:14 And they arose and took away the altars which were in Jerusalem; they also took away all the incense altars and cast them into the brook Kidron. 
2Chronicles30:15 Then they slaughtered the Passover lambs on the fourteenth of the second month. And the priests and Levites were ashamed of themselves, and set themselves apart as holy and brought burnt offerings to the house of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles30:16 And they stood at their stations according to the legal judgment for them, according to the law of Moses the man of God; the priests splashed the blood which they received from the hand of the Levites." 
2Chronicles30:17 For there were many in the assembly who had not set themselves apart as holy; therefore, the Levites were over the slaughter of the Passover lambs for everyone who was unclean, in order to set them apart as holy to Yahweh." 
2Chronicles30:18 For a multitude of the people, even many from Ephraim and Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet they ate the Passover otherwise than what was written. For Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, “May Yahweh, who is good, atone" 
2Chronicles30:19 for everyone who prepares his heart to seek God, Yahweh, the God of his fathers, though not according to the rules of cleansing of the sanctuary.”" 
2Chronicles30:20 So Yahweh heard Hezekiah and healed the people. 
2Chronicles30:21 And the sons of Israel present in Jerusalem celebrated the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days with great gladness, and the Levites and the priests praised Yahweh day after day with loud instruments to Yahweh." 
2Chronicles30:22 Then Hezekiah spoke to the hearts of all the Levites who showed good insight in the things of Yahweh. So they ate for the appointed seven days, sacrificing peace offerings and giving thanks to Yahweh, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles30:23 Then the whole assembly took counsel to determine to celebrate the feast another seven days, so they celebrated the seven days with gladness." 
2Chronicles30:24 For Hezekiah king of Judah had contributed to the assembly 1,000 bulls and 7,000 sheep, and the princes had contributed to the assembly 1,000 bulls and 10,000 sheep; and a large number of priests set themselves apart as holy." 
2Chronicles30:25 And all the assembly of Judah were glad, with the priests and the Levites and all the assembly that came from Israel, both the sojourners who came from the land of Israel and those living in Judah." 
2Chronicles30:26 So there was great gladness in Jerusalem, because there was nothing like this in Jerusalem since the days of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel." 
2Chronicles30:27 Then the Levitical priests arose and blessed the people; and their voice was heard and their prayer came to His holy habitation, to heaven." 
2Chronicles31:1 Now when all this was completed, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah, shattered the pillars, cut the Asherim in pieces, and tore down the high places and the altars throughout all Judah and Benjamin, as well as in Ephraim and Manasseh, until the destruction was completed. Then all the sons of Israel returned to their cities, each to his possession." 
2Chronicles31:2 And Hezekiah set up the divisions of the priests and the Levites by their divisions, each according to his service, both the priests and the Levites, for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister and to give thanks and to praise in the gates of the camp of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles31:3 He also appointed the king’s portion of his goods for the burnt offerings, namely, for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the sabbaths and for the new moons and for the appointed times, as it is written in the law of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles31:4 Also he said to the people who lived in Jerusalem to give the portion due to the priests and the Levites, that they might be strong in the law of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles31:5 As soon as the word spread forth, the sons of Israel provided in abundance the first fruits of grain, new wine, oil, honey, and of all the produce of the field; and they brought in abundantly the tithe of all." 
2Chronicles31:6 Now the sons of Israel and Judah who lived in the cities of Judah also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of the holy gifts which were made holy to Yahweh their God, and put them in heaps." 
2Chronicles31:7 In the third month they began to make the heaps, and completed them by the seventh month." 
2Chronicles31:8 Then Hezekiah and the rulers came and saw the heaps, and they blessed Yahweh and His people Israel." 
2Chronicles31:9 Then Hezekiah inquired of the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps. 
2Chronicles31:10 And Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok said to him, “Since the contributions began to be brought into the house of Yahweh, there has been much to eat and be satisfied with and have left over, for Yahweh has blessed His people, and this great quantity is left over.”" 
2Chronicles31:11 Then Hezekiah ordered them to prepare rooms in the house of Yahweh, and they prepared them." 
2Chronicles31:12 And they faithfully brought in the contribution and the tithe and the holy things; and Conaniah the Levite was the officer over them and his brother Shimei was second. 
2Chronicles31:13 Now Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath, and Benaiah were overseers assisting at the hand of Conaniah and Shimei his brother by the appointment of King Hezekiah, and Azariah was the chief officer of the house of God." 
2Chronicles31:14 And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the keeper of the eastern gate, was over the freewill offerings of God, to distribute the contributions for Yahweh and the most holy things." 
2Chronicles31:15 Now assisting by his hand were Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah in the cities of the priests, to distribute faithfully their portions to their brothers by divisions, whether great or small," 
2Chronicles31:16 without regard to their genealogical record, to the males from thirty years old and upward—everyone who entered the house of Yahweh for his daily obligations—for their service in their responsibilities according to their divisions;" 
2Chronicles31:17 as well as the priests who were recorded genealogically according to their fathers’ households, and the Levites from twenty years old and upwards, by their responsibilities and their divisions." 
2Chronicles31:18 The genealogical record included all their little ones, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, for the whole assembly, for they set themselves apart faithfully in holiness." 
2Chronicles31:19 Also for the sons of Aaron the priests who were in the pasture lands of their cities, or in each and every city, there were men who were designated by name to distribute portions to every male among the priests and to everyone genealogically recorded among the Levites." 
2Chronicles31:20 Thus Hezekiah did throughout all Judah; and he did what was good, right, and true before Yahweh his God." 
2Chronicles31:21 And every work which he began in the service of the house of God in law and in commandment—to seek his God—he did with all his heart and succeeded. 
2Chronicles32:1 After these acts of faithfulness Sennacherib king of Assyria came and invaded Judah and encamped against the fortified cities, and thought to break into them for himself." 
2Chronicles32:2 Then Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and that he had set his face to make war on Jerusalem," 
2Chronicles32:3 and he took counsel with his commanders and his warriors to stop up the supply of water from the springs which were outside the city, and they helped him." 
2Chronicles32:4 So many people gathered and stopped up all the springs and the stream which flowed in the midst of the land, saying, “Why should the kings of Assyria come and find abundant water?”" 
2Chronicles32:5 And he strengthened himself and rebuilt all the wall that had been broken down and erected towers on it, and built another outside wall and strengthened the Millo in the city of David, and made weapons and shields in great number." 
2Chronicles32:6 He also put military commanders over the people and gathered them to him in the square at the city gate, and spoke to their hearts, saying," 
2Chronicles32:7 “Be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be dismayed because of the king of Assyria nor because of all the multitude that is with him; for the one with us is greater than the one with him. 
2Chronicles32:8 With him is only an arm of flesh, but with us is Yahweh our God to help us and to fight our battles.” And the people were sustained by the words of Hezekiah king of Judah." 
2Chronicles32:9 After this Sennacherib king of Assyria sent his servants to Jerusalem while he was besieging Lachish with all his forces with him, against Hezekiah king of Judah and against all Judah who were at Jerusalem, saying," 
2Chronicles32:10 “Thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria, ‘On what are you trusting that you are remaining in Jerusalem under siege?" 
2Chronicles32:11 Is not Hezekiah inciting you to give yourselves over to die by hunger and by thirst, saying, “Yahweh our God will deliver us from the hand of the king of Assyria”?" 
2Chronicles32:12 Has not the same Hezekiah taken away His high places and His altars, and said to Judah and Jerusalem, “You shall worship before one altar, and on it you shall offer offerings up in smoke”?" 
2Chronicles32:13 Do you not know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of the lands able at all to deliver their land from my hand? 
2Chronicles32:14 Who was there among all the gods of these nations which my fathers devoted to destruction, who could deliver his people from my hand, that your God should be able to deliver you from my hand?" 
2Chronicles32:15 So now, do not let Hezekiah deceive you or incite you like this, and do not believe him, for no god of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people from my hand or from the hand of my fathers. How much less will your God deliver you from my hand?’”" 
2Chronicles32:16 His servants spoke further against Yahweh God and against His servant Hezekiah. 
2Chronicles32:17 He also wrote letters to reproach Yahweh, the God of Israel, and to speak against Him, saying, “As the gods of the nations of the lands have not delivered their people from my hand, so the God of Hezekiah will not deliver His people from my hand.”" 
2Chronicles32:18 And they called this out with a loud voice in the language of Judah to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall, to instill fear and terrify them, so that they might capture the city." 
2Chronicles32:19 And they spoke of the God of Jerusalem as of the gods of the peoples of the earth, the work of men’s hands." 
2Chronicles32:20 But King Hezekiah and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, prayed about this and cried out to heaven." 
2Chronicles32:20 But King Hezekiah and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, prayed about this and cried out to heaven." 
2Chronicles32:21 And Yahweh sent an angel who wiped out every mighty man of valor, ruler, and commander in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned in shame to his own land. And he entered the house of his god, and some of his own children caused him to fall there by the sword." 
2Chronicles32:22 So Yahweh saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria and from the hand of all others, and He guided them on every side." 
2Chronicles32:23 And many were bringing presents to Yahweh at Jerusalem and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah, so that he was lifted up in the sight of all nations thereafter." 
2Chronicles32:24 In those days Hezekiah became sick to the point of death; and he prayed to Yahweh, and Yahweh spoke to him and gave him a miraculous sign." 
2Chronicles32:25 But Hezekiah gave no return for the benefit he received, because his heart was proud; therefore wrath came on him and on Judah and Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles32:26 However, Hezekiah humbled the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of Yahweh did not come on them in the days of Hezekiah." 
2Chronicles32:27 Now Hezekiah had abundant riches and honor; and he made for himself treasuries for silver, gold, precious stones, spices, shields, and all kinds of desirable articles," 
2Chronicles32:28 storehouses also for the produce of grain, wine, and oil, stalls for all kinds of cattle, and sheepfolds for the flocks." 
2Chronicles32:29 He also made cities for himself and acquired flocks and herds in abundance, for God had given him exceedingly abundant wealth." 
2Chronicles32:30 And it was Hezekiah who stopped the upper outlet of the waters of Gihon and directed them to the west side of the city of David. And Hezekiah succeeded in all that he did. 
2Chronicles32:31 Even in the matter of the envoys of the rulers of Babylon, who sent to him to inquire of the miraculous sign that had happened in the land, God left him alone only to test him, that He might know all that was in his heart." 
2Chronicles32:32 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and his deeds of lovingkindness, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles32:32 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and his deeds of lovingkindness, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles32:33 So Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the upper section of the tombs of the sons of David; and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at his death. And Manasseh his son became king in his place." 
2Chronicles33:1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles33:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh dispossessed before the sons of Israel." 
2Chronicles33:3 Indeed, he rebuilt the high places which Hezekiah his father had torn down; and he erected altars for the Baals and made Asherim, and worshiped all the host of heaven and served them." 
2Chronicles33:4 And he built altars in the house of Yahweh, of which Yahweh had said, “In Jerusalem My name shall be forever.”" 
2Chronicles33:5 Indeed, he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles33:6 He even made his sons pass through the fire in the valley of Ben-hinnom; and he practiced soothsaying, interpreted omens, practiced sorcery, and dealt with mediums and spiritists. He did much that was evil in the sight of Yahweh, provoking Him to anger." 
2Chronicles33:7 Then he put the graven image of the idol, which he had made, in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, “In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel, I will put My name forever." 
2Chronicles33:8 And I will not again remove the foot of Israel from the land which I have set up for your fathers, if only they will be careful to do all that I have commanded them according to all the law, the statutes and the judgments given by the hand of Moses.”" 
2Chronicles33:9 Thus Manasseh led Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem astray in order to do more evil than the nations whom Yahweh destroyed before the sons of Israel. 
2Chronicles33:10 Then Yahweh spoke to Manasseh and his people, but they paid no attention." 
2Chronicles33:11 Therefore Yahweh brought the commanders of the army of the king of Assyria against them, and they captured Manasseh with hooks, bound him with bronze chains, and took him to Babylon." 
2Chronicles33:12 And when he was in distress, he entreated Yahweh his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers." 
2Chronicles33:13 Then he prayed to Him, and He was moved by his entreaty and heard his supplication, and returned him back to Jerusalem to his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that Yahweh was God." 
2Chronicles33:14 Afterwards, he built the outer wall of the city of David on the west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entrance of the Fish Gate; and he encircled the Ophel with it and made it very high. Then he put military commanders in all the fortified cities of Judah." 
2Chronicles33:15 He also removed the foreign gods and the idol from the house of Yahweh, as well as all the altars which he had built on the mountain of the house of Yahweh and in Jerusalem, and he threw them outside the city." 
2Chronicles33:16 And he set up the altar of Yahweh and sacrificed peace offerings and thank offerings on it; and he said for Judah to serve Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles33:17 Nevertheless the people still sacrificed in the high places, although only to Yahweh their God." 
2Chronicles33:18 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, even his prayer to his God, and the words of the seers who spoke to him in the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel, behold, they are among the chronicles of the kings of Israel." 
2Chronicles33:19 His prayer also and how God was entreated by him, and all his sin, his unfaithfulness, and the sites on which he built high places and erected the Asherim and the graven images, before he humbled himself, behold, they are written in the chronicles of the Hozai." 
2Chronicles33:20 And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house. And Amon his son became king in his place." 
2Chronicles33:21 Amon was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles33:22 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, as Manasseh his father had done, and Amon sacrificed to all the graven images which his father Manasseh had made, and he served them." 
2Chronicles33:23 Moreover, he did not humble himself before Yahweh as his father Manasseh had humbled himself, but Amon multiplied guilt." 
2Chronicles33:24 Then his servants conspired against him and put him to death in his own house. 
2Chronicles33:25 Then the people of the land struck down all those who had conspired against King Amon, and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his place." 
2Chronicles34:1 Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles34:2 And he did what was right in the sight of Yahweh and walked in the ways of his father David and did not turn aside to the right or to the left. 
2Chronicles34:3 Now in the eighth year of his reign while he was still a youth, he began to seek the God of his father David; and in the twelfth year he began to cleanse Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, the Asherim, the graven images, and the molten images." 
2Chronicles34:4 And they tore down the altars of the Baals in his presence, and the incense altars that were high above them he cut in pieces; also the Asherim, the graven images, and the molten images he broke in pieces and ground to powder and scattered it on the graves of those who had sacrificed to them." 
2Chronicles34:5 Then he burned the bones of the priests on their altars and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles34:6 And in the cities of Manasseh, Ephraim, Simeon, even as far as Naphtali, in their surrounding ruins," 
2Chronicles34:7 he also tore down the altars and beat the Asherim and the graven images into powder, and cut in pieces all the incense altars throughout the land of Israel. Then he returned to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles34:8 Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had cleansed the land and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah an official of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to repair the house of Yahweh his God." 
2Chronicles34:9 And they came to Hilkiah the high priest and gave him the money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites, the doorkeepers, had gathered from the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, and from all the remnant of Israel, and from all Judah and Benjamin and the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles34:10 Then they gave it into the hand of those who did the work, who had the oversight of the house of Yahweh; and those who did the work, who were doing this in the house of Yahweh, used it to restore and repair the house." 
2Chronicles34:11 They in turn gave it to the craftsmen and to the builders to buy hewn stone and timber for clamps and to make beams for the houses which the kings of Judah had let go to ruin. 
2Chronicles34:12 And the men did the work faithfully with foremen over them to direct: Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites of the sons of Merari, Zechariah and Meshullam of the sons of the Kohathites, and the Levites, all who were skillful with musical instruments." 
2Chronicles34:12 And the men did the work faithfully with foremen over them to direct: Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites of the sons of Merari, Zechariah and Meshullam of the sons of the Kohathites, and the Levites, all who were skillful with musical instruments." 
2Chronicles34:12 And the men did the work faithfully with foremen over them to direct: Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites of the sons of Merari, Zechariah and Meshullam of the sons of the Kohathites, and the Levites, all who were skillful with musical instruments." 
2Chronicles34:13 They were also over those who carried loads, and directed all those who did the work from service to service; and some of the Levites were scribes and officials and gatekeepers." 
2Chronicles34:14 When they were taking out the money which had been brought into the house of Yahweh, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of Yahweh given by the hand of Moses." 
2Chronicles34:15 So Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, “I have found the book of the law in the house of Yahweh.” And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan." 
2Chronicles34:16 Then Shaphan brought the book to the king and furthermore responded to the king with a word, saying, “Everything that was given to the hand of your servants they are doing." 
2Chronicles34:17 They have also poured out the money that was found in the house of Yahweh, and have given it into the hand of the supervisors and those who did the work.”" 
2Chronicles34:18 Moreover, Shaphan the scribe told the king saying, “Hilkiah the priest gave me a book.” And Shaphan read from it in the presence of the king." 
2Chronicles34:19 Now it happened that when the king heard the words of the law, he tore his clothes." 
2Chronicles34:20 Then the king commanded Hilkiah, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Abdon the son of Micah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king’s servant, saying," 
2Chronicles34:20 Then the king commanded Hilkiah, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Abdon the son of Micah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king’s servant, saying," 
2Chronicles34:21 “Go, inquire of Yahweh for me and those who are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the words of the book which has been found, for great is the wrath of Yahweh which is poured out against us, because our fathers have not kept the word of Yahweh, to do according to all that is written in this book.”" 
2Chronicles34:22 So Hilkiah and those whom the king had told went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tokhath, the son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter); and they spoke to her regarding this." 
2Chronicles34:23 And she said to them, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Say to the man who sent you to Me," 
2Chronicles34:24 thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am bringing evil on this place and on its inhabitants, even all the curses written in the book which they have read in the presence of the king of Judah." 
2Chronicles34:25 Because they have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods that they might provoke Me to anger with all the works of their hands, therefore My wrath will be poured out against this place, and it shall not be quenched.”’" 
2Chronicles34:26 But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of Yahweh, thus you shall say to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, “Regarding the words which you have heard," 
2Chronicles34:27 because your heart was soft and you humbled yourself before God when you heard His words against this place and against its inhabitants, and because you humbled yourself before Me, tore your clothes and wept before Me, I truly have heard you,” declares Yahweh." 
2Chronicles34:28 “Behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be gathered to your grave in peace, so your eyes will not see all the evil which I will bring on this place and on its inhabitants.”’” So they brought back word to the king." 
2Chronicles34:29 Then the king sent and gathered all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles34:30 And the king went up to the house of Yahweh and all the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests and the Levites and all the people, from the greatest to the least; and he read in their hearing all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles34:31 Then the king stood in his place and cut a covenant before Yahweh, to walk after Yahweh, and to keep His commandments and His testimonies and His statutes with all his heart and with all his soul, to do the words of the covenant that were written in this book." 
2Chronicles34:32 Moreover, he made all who were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin to stand with him. So the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles34:33 And Josiah took away all the abominations from all the lands belonging to the sons of Israel, and made all who were present in Israel to serve Yahweh their God. Throughout his lifetime they did not turn away from following Yahweh, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles35:1 Then Josiah celebrated the Passover to Yahweh in Jerusalem, and they slaughtered the Passover animals on the fourteenth day of the first month." 
2Chronicles35:2 And he caused the priests to stand in their responsibilities and strengthened them in the service of the house of Yahweh. 
2Chronicles35:3 He also said to the Levites who provided understanding to all Israel and who were holy to Yahweh, “Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel built; it will be a burden on your shoulders no longer. Now serve Yahweh your God and His people Israel." 
2Chronicles35:4 So prepare yourselves by your fathers’ households in your divisions, according to the writing of David king of Israel and according to the writing of his son Solomon." 
2Chronicles35:5 Moreover, stand in the holy place according to the sections of the fathers’ households of your brothers the lay people, and according to the Levites, by division of a father’s household." 
2Chronicles35:6 Now slaughter the Passover animals, sanctify yourselves and prepare for your brothers to do according to the word of Yahweh by the hand of Moses.”" 
2Chronicles35:7 And Josiah contributed to the lay people, to all who were present, flocks of lambs and young goats, all for the Passover offerings, numbering 30,000 plus 3,000 bulls; these were from the king’s possessions." 
2Chronicles35:8 His officials also contributed a freewill offering to the people, the priests, and the Levites. Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, the officers of the house of God, gave to the priests for the Passover offerings 2,600 from the flocks and 300 bulls." 
2Chronicles35:8 His officials also contributed a freewill offering to the people, the priests, and the Levites. Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, the officers of the house of God, gave to the priests for the Passover offerings 2,600 from the flocks and 300 bulls." 
2Chronicles35:9 Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethanel, his brothers, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, the officials of the Levites, contributed to the Levites for the Passover offerings 5,000 from the flocks and 500 bulls." 
2Chronicles35:10 So the service was prepared, and the priests stood at their stations and the Levites by their divisions according to the king’s commandment." 
2Chronicles35:11 And they slaughtered the Passover animals, and while the priests splashed the blood received from their hand, the Levites skinned them." 
2Chronicles35:12 Then they took away the portions for the burnt offerings that they might give them to the sections of the fathers’ households of the lay people to bring near to Yahweh, as it is written in the book of Moses. They did this also with the bulls." 
2Chronicles35:13 So they roasted the Passover animals on the fire according to the legal judgment, and they boiled the holy things in pots, in kettles, in pans, and carried them speedily to all the lay people." 
2Chronicles35:14 Afterwards they prepared for themselves and for the priests, because the priests, the sons of Aaron, were offering the burnt offerings and the fat until night; therefore the Levites prepared for themselves and for the priests, the sons of Aaron." 
2Chronicles35:15 The singers, the sons of Asaph, were also at their stations according to the commandment of David, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun the king’s seer; and the gatekeepers at each gate did not have to turn aside from their service, because the Levites their brothers prepared for them." 
2Chronicles35:16 So all the service of Yahweh was prepared on that day to celebrate the Passover, and to offer burnt offerings on the altar of Yahweh according to the commandment of King Josiah." 
2Chronicles35:17 Thus the sons of Israel who were present celebrated the Passover at that time, and the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days." 
2Chronicles35:18 And there had not been celebrated a Passover like it in Israel from the days of Samuel the prophet; nor had any of the kings of Israel celebrated such a Passover as Josiah celebrated with the priests, the Levites, all Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles35:19 In the eighteenth year of Josiah’s reign, this Passover was celebrated." 
2Chronicles35:20 After all this, when Josiah had set the house in order, Neco king of Egypt went up to make war at Carchemish on the Euphrates, and Josiah went out to meet him." 
2Chronicles35:21 But Neco sent messengers to him, saying, “What have I to do with you, O King of Judah? I am not coming against you today but against the house with which I am at war, and God has said for me to hurry. Stop for your own sake from interfering with God who is with me, so that He will not bring you to ruin.”" 
2Chronicles35:22 However, Josiah would not turn away from him, but disguised himself in order to make war with him; nor did he listen to the words of Neco from the mouth of God, but came to make war on the plain of Megiddo." 
2Chronicles35:23 Then the archers shot King Josiah, and the king said to his servants, “Take me away, for I am badly wounded.”" 
2Chronicles35:24 So his servants took him out of the chariot and drove him in the second chariot which he had, and brought him to Jerusalem where he died, and he was buried in the tombs of his fathers. And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah." 
2Chronicles35:25 Then Jeremiah chanted a lament for Josiah. And all the male and female singers speak about Josiah in their lamentations to this day. And they made them a statute in Israel; behold, they are also written in the lamentations." 
2Chronicles35:25 Then Jeremiah chanted a lament for Josiah. And all the male and female singers speak about Josiah in their lamentations to this day. And they made them a statute in Israel; behold, they are also written in the lamentations." 
2Chronicles35:26 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and his deeds of lovingkindness according to what was written in the law of Yahweh," 
2Chronicles35:27 and his acts, first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah." 
2Chronicles36:1 Then the people of the land took Joahaz the son of Josiah, and made him king in place of his father in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles36:2 Joahaz was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles36:3 Then the king of Egypt had him removed in Jerusalem and imposed on the land a fine of one hundred talents of silver and one talent of gold. 
2Chronicles36:4 Then the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. But Neco took Joahaz his brother and brought him to Egypt." 
2Chronicles36:5 Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh his God." 
2Chronicles36:6 Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against him and bound him with bronze chains to lead him off to Babylon. 
2Chronicles36:7 Nebuchadnezzar also brought some of the articles of the house of Yahweh to Babylon and put them in his temple at Babylon. 
2Chronicles36:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim and the abominations which he did, and what was found against him, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiachin his son became king in his place." 
2Chronicles36:9 Jehoiachin was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem, and he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh." 
2Chronicles36:10 And at the turn of the year King Nebuchadnezzar sent and brought him to Babylon with the valuable articles of the house of Yahweh, and he made his relative Zedekiah king over Judah and Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles36:11 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles36:12 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh his God; he did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet who spoke from the mouth of Yahweh. 
2Chronicles36:12 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh his God; he did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet who spoke from the mouth of Yahweh. 
2Chronicles36:13 He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar who had made him swear allegiance by God. But he stiffened his neck and hardened his heart against turning to Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles36:14 Furthermore, all the leaders of the priests and the people were very unfaithful following all the abominations of the nations; and they defiled the house of Yahweh which He had set apart as holy in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles36:15 And Yahweh, the God of their fathers, sent word to them again and again by the hand of His messengers, because He had compassion on His people and on His habitation;" 
2Chronicles36:16 but they continually mocked the messengers of God, despised His words and scoffed at His prophets, until the wrath of Yahweh arose against His people, until there was no remedy." 
2Chronicles36:17 Therefore He brought up against them the king of the Chaldeans who killed their choice men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion on choice man or virgin, old man or infirm; He gave them all into his hand." 
2Chronicles36:18 And all the articles of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and the treasures of the king and of his officials, he brought them all to Babylon." 
2Chronicles36:19 Then they burned the house of God and tore down the wall of Jerusalem, and burned all its palaces with fire and destroyed all its valuable articles." 
2Chronicles36:20 And those who had escaped from the sword he took away into exile to Babylon; and they were slaves to him and to his sons until the rule of the kingdom of Persia," 
2Chronicles36:21 to fulfill the word of Yahweh by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had made up for its sabbaths. All the days of its desolation it kept sabbath until seventy years were fulfilled." 
2Chronicles36:21 to fulfill the word of Yahweh by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had made up for its sabbaths. All the days of its desolation it kept sabbath until seventy years were fulfilled." 
2Chronicles36:22 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia—in order to complete the word of Yahweh by the mouth of Jeremiah—Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he had a proclamation pass throughout all his kingdom, and also put it in writing, saying," 
2Chronicles36:22 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia—in order to complete the word of Yahweh by the mouth of Jeremiah—Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he had a proclamation pass throughout all his kingdom, and also put it in writing, saying," 
2Chronicles36:23 “Thus says Cyrus king of Persia, ‘Yahweh, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and He has appointed me to build Him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever there is among you of all His people, may Yahweh his God be with him, and let him go up!’”" 
Ezra1:1 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia—in order to complete the word of Yahweh from the mouth of Jeremiah—Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he had a proclamation pass throughout all his kingdom, and also put it in writing, saying:" 
Ezra1:1 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia—in order to complete the word of Yahweh from the mouth of Jeremiah—Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he had a proclamation pass throughout all his kingdom, and also put it in writing, saying:" 
Ezra1:2 “Thus says Cyrus king of Persia, ‘Yahweh, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and He has appointed me to build Him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah." 
Ezra1:3 Whoever there is among you of all His people, may his God be with him! Let him go up to Jerusalem which is in Judah and rebuild the house of Yahweh, the God of Israel; He is the God who is in Jerusalem." 
Ezra1:4 So everyone who remains, at whatever place he may sojourn, let the men of that place support him with silver and gold, with goods and cattle, together with a freewill offering for the house of God which is in Jerusalem.’”" 
Ezra1:5 Then the heads of fathers’ households of Judah and Benjamin and the priests and the Levites arose, that is of everyone whose spirit God had stirred to go up to rebuild the house of Yahweh which is in Jerusalem." 
Ezra1:6 All those around them strengthened them with articles of silver, with gold, with possessions, with cattle, and with precious things, aside from all that was given as a freewill offering." 
Ezra1:7 Also King Cyrus brought out the articles of the house of Yahweh, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought out from Jerusalem and put in the house of his gods;" 
Ezra1:8 and Cyrus, king of Persia, had them brought out by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and he counted them out to Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah." 
Ezra1:9 Now this was their number: 30 gold dishes, 1,000 silver dishes, 29 duplicates;" 
Ezra1:10 30 gold bowls, 410 silver bowls of a second kind and 1,000 other articles." 
Ezra1:11 All the articles of gold and silver numbered 5,400. Sheshbazzar brought them all up with the exiles who went up from Babylon to Jerusalem." 
Ezra2:1 Now these are the people of the province who came up out of the captivity of the exiles whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had taken away into exile to Babylon, and who returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his city." 
Ezra2:2 These came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, and Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:" 
Ezra2:2 These came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, and Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:" 
Ezra2:3 the sons of Parosh, 2,172;" 
Ezra2:4 the sons of Shephatiah, 372;" 
Ezra2:5 the sons of Arah, 775;" 
Ezra2:6 the sons of Pahath-moab of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, 2,812;" 
Ezra2:7 the sons of Elam, 1,254;" 
Ezra2:8 the sons of Zattu, 945;" 
Ezra2:9 the sons of Zaccai, 760;" 
Ezra2:10 the sons of Bani, 642;" 
Ezra2:11 the sons of Bebai, 623;" 
Ezra2:12 the sons of Azgad, 1,222;" 
Ezra2:13 the sons of Adonikam, 666;" 
Ezra2:14 the sons of Bigvai, 2,056;" 
Ezra2:15 the sons of Adin, 454;" 
Ezra2:16 the sons of Ater of Hezekiah, 98;" 
Ezra2:17 the sons of Bezai, 323;" 
Ezra2:18 the sons of Jorah, 112;" 
Ezra2:19 the sons of Hashum, 223;" 
Ezra2:20 the sons of Gibbar, 95;" 
Ezra2:21 the sons of Bethlehem, 123;" 
Ezra2:22 the men of Netophah, 56;" 
Ezra2:23 the men of Anathoth, 128;" 
Ezra2:24 the sons of Azmaveth, 42;" 
Ezra2:25 the sons of Kiriath-arim, Chephirah and Beeroth, 743;" 
Ezra2:26 the sons of Ramah and Geba, 621;" 
Ezra2:27 the men of Michmas, 122;" 
Ezra2:28 the men of Bethel and Ai, 223;" 
Ezra2:29 the sons of Nebo, 52;" 
Ezra2:30 the sons of Magbish, 156;" 
Ezra2:31 the sons of the other Elam, 1,254;" 
Ezra2:32 the sons of Harim, 320;" 
Ezra2:33 the sons of Lod, Hadid and Ono, 725;" 
Ezra2:34 the men of Jericho, 345;" 
Ezra2:35 the sons of Senaah, 3,630." 
Ezra2:36 The priests: the sons of Jedaiah of the house of Jeshua, 973;" 
Ezra2:37 the sons of Immer, 1,052;" 
Ezra2:38 the sons of Pashhur, 1,247;" 
Ezra2:39 the sons of Harim, 1,017." 
Ezra2:40 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodaviah, 74." 
Ezra2:41 The singers: the sons of Asaph, 128." 
Ezra2:42 The sons of the gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, in all 139." 
Ezra2:43 The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth," 
Ezra2:44 the sons of Keros, the sons of Siaha, the sons of Padon," 
Ezra2:45 the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, the sons of Akkub," 
Ezra2:46 the sons of Hagab, the sons of Shalmai, the sons of Hanan," 
Ezra2:47 the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar, the sons of Reaiah," 
Ezra2:48 the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda, the sons of Gazzam," 
Ezra2:49 the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah, the sons of Besai," 
Ezra2:50 the sons of Asnah, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephisim," 
Ezra2:51 the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur," 
Ezra2:52 the sons of Bazluth, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha," 
Ezra2:53 the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah," 
Ezra2:54 the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha." 
Ezra2:55 The sons of Solomon’s servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Hassophereth, the sons of Peruda," 
Ezra2:56 the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel," 
Ezra2:57 the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the sons of Ami." 
Ezra2:58 All the temple servants and the sons of Solomon’s servants were 392. 
Ezra2:59 Now these are those who came up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer, but they were not able to declare their fathers’ households and their fathers’ seed, whether they were of Israel:" 
Ezra2:60 the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, 652." 
Ezra2:61 Of the sons of the priests: the sons of Hobaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai, who took a wife from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and he was called by their name." 
Ezra2:62 These searched in their genealogical records, but they could not be found; therefore they were considered unclean and excluded from the priesthood." 
Ezra2:63 The governor said to them that they should not eat from the most holy things until a priest stood with Urim and Thummim. 
Ezra2:64 The whole assembly together was 42,360," 
Ezra2:65 besides their male and female slaves of whom there were 7,337; and they had 200 male and female singers." 
Ezra2:66 Their horses were 736; their mules, 245;" 
Ezra2:67 their camels, 435; their donkeys, 6,720." 
Ezra2:68 Some of the heads of fathers’ households, when they arrived at the house of Yahweh which is in Jerusalem, gave a freewill offering for the house of God to restore it on its foundation." 
Ezra2:69 According to their ability, they gave to the treasury for the work 61,000 gold drachmas and 5,000 silver minas and 100 priestly tunics." 
Ezra2:70 So the priests and the Levites, some of the people, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the temple servants lived in their cities, and all Israel in their cities." 
Ezra3:1 Then the seventh month came, and the sons of Israel were in the cities. And the people gathered together as one man to Jerusalem." 
Ezra3:2 Then Jeshua the son of Jozadak and his brothers the priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and his brothers arose and built the altar of the God of Israel to offer burnt offerings on it, as it is written in the law of Moses, the man of God." 
Ezra3:3 So they set up the altar on its foundation, for they were terrified because of the peoples of the lands; and they offered burnt offerings on it to Yahweh, burnt offerings morning and evening." 
Ezra3:4 They celebrated the Feast of Booths, as it is written, and offered the fixed number of burnt offerings daily, according to the legal judgment, as each day required;" 
Ezra3:5 and afterward there was a continual burnt offering, also for the new moons and for all the appointed times of Yahweh that were set apart as holy, and from everyone who offered a freewill offering to Yahweh." 
Ezra3:6 From the first day of the seventh month they began to offer burnt offerings to Yahweh, but the foundation of the temple of Yahweh had not been laid." 
Ezra3:7 Then they gave money to the masons and carpenters, and food, drink, and oil to the Sidonians and to the Tyrians, to bring cedar wood from Lebanon to the sea at Joppa, according to the permission they had from Cyrus king of Persia." 
Ezra3:8 Now in the second year of their coming to the house of God at Jerusalem in the second month, Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak and the rest of their brothers the priests and the Levites, and all who came from the captivity to Jerusalem, began the work and appointed the Levites from twenty years and older to direct the work of the house of Yahweh." 
Ezra3:9 Then Jeshua with his sons and brothers stood united with Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Judah and the sons of Henadad with their sons and brothers the Levites, to direct those who do the work in the house of God." 
Ezra3:10 So the builders laid the foundation of the temple of Yahweh. Then the priests stood in their apparel with trumpets, and the Levites, the sons of Asaph, with cymbals, to praise Yahweh according to the directions of King David of Israel." 
Ezra3:11 And they sang, praising and giving thanks to Yahweh, saying, “For He is good, for His lovingkindness endures forever upon Israel.” And all the people shouted with a great shout when they praised Yahweh because the foundation of the house of Yahweh was laid." 
Ezra3:12 Yet many of the priests and Levites and heads of fathers’ households, the old men who had seen the first house of Yahweh, were weeping with a loud voice when the foundation of this house was laid before their eyes, while many in loud shouts with gladness were raising their voice," 
Ezra3:13 so that the people could not distinguish the voices of the shouting of gladness from the voices of the weeping of the people, for the people were shouting with a loud shout, and those voices were heard far away." 
Ezra4:1 Then the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the people of the exile were building a temple to Yahweh, the God of Israel," 
Ezra4:2 so they approached Zerubbabel and the heads of fathers’ households and said to them, “Let us build with you, for we, like you, seek your God; and we have been sacrificing to Him since the days of Esarhaddon king of Assyria, who brought us up here.”" 
Ezra4:3 But Zerubbabel and Jeshua and the rest of the heads of fathers’ households of Israel said to them, “You have nothing in common with us in building a house to our God; but we ourselves will together build to Yahweh, the God of Israel, as King Cyrus, the king of Persia has commanded us.”" 
Ezra4:4 So the people of the land discouraged the people of Judah and dismayed them from building," 
Ezra4:5 and hired counselors against them to frustrate their counsel all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia." 
Ezra4:6 Now in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, they wrote an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem." 
Ezra4:7 And in the days of Artaxerxes, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of his colleagues wrote to Artaxerxes king of Persia; and the text of the letter was written in Aramaic and translated from Aramaic." 
Ezra4:8 Rehum the commander and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to King Artaxerxes, as follows—" 
Ezra4:9 then wrote Rehum the commander and Shimshai the scribe and the rest of their colleagues, the judges and the lesser governors, the officials, the secretaries, the men of Erech, the Babylonians, the men of Susa, that is, the Elamites," 
Ezra4:10 and the rest of the nations, which the great and honorable Osnappar took away into exile and settled in the city of Samaria and in the rest of the region beyond the River. And now—" 
Ezra4:11 this is the copy of the letter which they sent to him: “To King Artaxerxes: Your servants, the men in the region beyond the River, and now—" 
Ezra4:12 let it be known to the king that the Jews who came up from you have come to us at Jerusalem; they are rebuilding the rebellious and evil city and are completing the walls and repairing the foundations. 
Ezra4:13 Now let it be known to the king, that if that city is rebuilt and the walls are completed, they will not give tribute, custom, or toll, and it will damage the revenue of the kings." 
Ezra4:14 Now because we are in the service of the palace, and it is not fitting for us to see the king’s dishonor, therefore we have sent and made known to the king," 
Ezra4:15 that a search be made in the record books of your fathers. And you will find in the record books and come to know that that city is a rebellious city and damaging to kings and provinces, and that they have incited revolt within it in past days; therefore that city was laid waste." 
Ezra4:16 We make known to the king that if that city is rebuilt and the walls completed, as a result you will have no portion in the province beyond the River.”" 
Ezra4:17 Then the king sent an edict to Rehum the commander, to Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their colleagues who live in Samaria and in the rest of the provinces beyond the River: “Peace. And now—" 
Ezra4:18 the document which you sent to us has been plainly read before me. 
Ezra4:19 So a decree has been issued by me, and a search has been made and it has been found that that city has lifted itself up against the kings in past days, that rebellion and revolt have been perpetrated in it," 
Ezra4:20 that strong kings have been over Jerusalem, even rulers in all the provinces beyond the River, and that tribute, custom, and toll were given to them." 
Ezra4:21 Now issue a decree to make those men stop, that this city may not be rebuilt until a decree is issued by me." 
Ezra4:22 And beware of being negligent in doing this matter; why should harm increase to damage the kings?” 
Ezra4:23 Then as soon as the copy of King Artaxerxes’ document was read before Rehum and Shimshai the scribe and their colleagues, they went in haste to Jerusalem to the Jews and stopped them by force and military." 
Ezra4:24 Then the work on the house of God in Jerusalem stopped, and it was stopped until the second year of the reign of Darius king of Persia." 
Ezra5:1 And the prophets, Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, who was over them." 
Ezra5:1 And the prophets, Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, who was over them." 
Ezra5:1 And the prophets, Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, who was over them." 
Ezra5:2 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak arose and began to rebuild the house of God which is in Jerusalem; and the prophets of God were with them supporting them. 
Ezra5:3 At that time Tattenai, the governor of the province beyond the River, and Shethar-bozenai and their colleagues came to them and spoke to them thus, “Who issued you a decree to rebuild this house and to complete this structure?”" 
Ezra5:4 Then we told them accordingly what the names of the men were who were rebuilding this building. 
Ezra5:5 But the eye of their God was on the elders of the Jews, and they did not stop them until a report could come to Darius, and then a document be returned concerning this." 
Ezra5:6 This is the copy of the letter which Tattenai, the governor of the province beyond the River, and Shethar-bozenai and his colleagues the officials, who were beyond the River, sent to Darius the king." 
Ezra5:7 They sent word to him in which it was written thus: “To Darius the king, all peace." 
Ezra5:8 Let it be known to the king that we have gone to the province of Judah, to the house of the great God, and it is being built with huge stones, and timber is being put within the walls; and that work is going on with all diligence and is succeeding in their hands." 
Ezra5:9 Then we asked those elders and said to them thus, ‘Who issued you a decree to rebuild this house and to complete this structure?’" 
Ezra5:10 And we also asked them their names in order to make known to you, and that we might write down the names of the men who were at their head." 
Ezra5:11 Thus they responded with a word to us, saying, ‘We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and are rebuilding the house that was built many years ago, which a great king of Israel built and completed." 
Ezra5:12 But because our fathers had provoked the God of heaven to wrath, He gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house and took the people away into exile in Babylon." 
Ezra5:13 However, in the first year of Cyrus king of Babylon, King Cyrus issued a decree to rebuild this house of God." 
Ezra5:14 Also the gold and silver utensils of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple in Jerusalem and brought them to the temple of Babylon, these King Cyrus took out from the temple of Babylon, and they were given to one whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had appointed governor." 
Ezra5:15 He said to him, “Take these articles, go and deposit them in the temple in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be rebuilt in its place.”" 
Ezra5:16 Then that Sheshbazzar came and laid the foundations of the house of God in Jerusalem; and from then until now it is being rebuilt, and it is not yet finished.’" 
Ezra5:17 So now if it seems good to the king, let a search be made in the king’s treasure house, which is there in Babylon, if it be that a decree was issued by King Cyrus to rebuild that house of God in Jerusalem; and let the king send to us his will concerning this matter.”" 
Ezra6:1 Then King Darius issued a decree, and a search was made in the archives, where the treasures were deposited in Babylon." 
Ezra6:2 And in Ecbatana in the fortress, which is in the province of Media, a scroll was found and there was written in it as follows: “Memorandum—" 
Ezra6:3 In the first year of King Cyrus, Cyrus the king issued a decree: ‘Concerning the house of God in Jerusalem, let that house, the place where sacrifices are offered, be rebuilt and let its foundations be retained, its height being 60 cubits and its width 60 cubits;" 
Ezra6:4 with three layers of huge stones and one layer of timbers. And let the cost be given from the royal treasury. 
Ezra6:5 And also let the gold and silver articles of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out from the temple in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, be returned and brought to their places in the temple in Jerusalem; and you shall deposit them in the house of God.’" 
Ezra6:6 “Now Tattenai, governor of the province beyond the River, Shethar-bozenai and their colleagues, the officials of the provinces beyond the River, keep away from there." 
Ezra6:7 Leave that work on the house of God alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews rebuild that house of God in its designated place. 
Ezra6:8 Moreover, I issue a decree concerning what you shall do for those elders of Judah in the rebuilding of that house of God: the full cost is to be given to those people from the royal treasury out of the tribute of the provinces beyond the River, and that without negligence." 
Ezra6:9 Whatever is needed, both young bulls, rams, and lambs for a burnt offering to the God of heaven, and wheat, salt, wine, and anointing oil, according to what the priests in Jerusalem say, it is to be given to them daily without negligence," 
Ezra6:10 that they may bring sweet-smelling sacrifices near to the God of heaven and pray for the life of the king and his sons. 
Ezra6:11 And I issued a decree that any man who violates this edict, a timber shall be pulled out from his house and he shall be impaled on it and his house shall be made a refuse heap on account of this." 
Ezra6:12 May the God who has caused His name to dwell there overthrow any king or people who stretches out his hand to change it, so as to destroy that house of God in Jerusalem. I, Darius, have issued this decree, let it be done with all diligence!”" 
Ezra6:13 Then Tattenai, the governor of the province beyond the River, Shethar-bozenai and their colleagues carried out the decree with all diligence, just as King Darius had sent." 
Ezra6:14 And the elders of the Jews were building and succeeding through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. So they built and completed it according to the decree of the God of Israel and the decree of Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxes king of Persia." 
Ezra6:14 And the elders of the Jews were building and succeeding through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. So they built and completed it according to the decree of the God of Israel and the decree of Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxes king of Persia." 
Ezra6:14 And the elders of the Jews were building and succeeding through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. So they built and completed it according to the decree of the God of Israel and the decree of Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxes king of Persia." 
Ezra6:15 And this house was brought to completion on the third day of the month Adar; it was the sixth year of the reign of King Darius. 
Ezra6:16 And the sons of Israel, the priests, the Levites and the rest of the exiles, celebrated the dedication of this house of God with joy." 
Ezra6:17 They brought near for the dedication of this house of God 100 bulls, 200 rams, 400 lambs, and as a sin offering for all Israel 12 male goats, corresponding to the number of the tribes of Israel." 
Ezra6:18 Then they appointed the priests to their sections and the Levites in their divisions for the service of God in Jerusalem, as it is written in the book of Moses." 
Ezra6:19 And the exiles celebrated the Passover on the fourteenth of the first month. 
Ezra6:20 For the priests and the Levites had cleansed themselves together; all of them were clean. Then they slaughtered the Passover lamb for all the exiles, both for their brothers the priests and for themselves." 
Ezra6:21 Then the sons of Israel who returned from exile and all those who had separated themselves from the uncleanness of the nations of the land to join them, to seek Yahweh, the God of Israel, ate the Passover." 
Ezra6:22 And they celebrated the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days with gladness, for Yahweh had caused them to be glad and had turned the heart of the king of Assyria toward them to strengthen them in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel." 
Ezra7:1 Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia, there went up Ezra son of Seraiah, son of Azariah, son of Hilkiah," 
Ezra7:2 son of Shallum, son of Zadok, son of Ahitub," 
Ezra7:3 son of Amariah, son of Azariah, son of Meraioth," 
Ezra7:4 son of Zerahiah, son of Uzzi, son of Bukki," 
Ezra7:5 son of Abishua, son of Phinehas, son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the chief priest." 
Ezra7:6 This Ezra went up from Babylon, and he was a scribe skilled in the law of Moses, which Yahweh, the God of Israel had given; and the king granted him all he requested because the hand of Yahweh his God was upon him." 
Ezra7:7 And some of the sons of Israel and some of the priests, the Levites, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the temple servants went up to Jerusalem in the seventh year of King Artaxerxes." 
Ezra7:8 He came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king." 
Ezra7:9 For on the first of the first month he began to go up from Babylon; and on the first of the fifth month he came to Jerusalem, because the good hand of his God was upon him." 
Ezra7:10 For Ezra had set his heart to study the law of Yahweh and to practice it, and to teach His statute and judgment in Israel." 
Ezra7:11 Now this is the copy of the letter which King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, learned in the words of the commandments of Yahweh and His statutes to Israel:" 
Ezra7:12 “Artaxerxes, king of kings, to Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, perfect peace. And now—" 
Ezra7:13 I have issued a decree that any of the people of Israel and their priests and the Levites in my kingdom who freely offer to go to Jerusalem, may go with you." 
Ezra7:14 Forasmuch as you are sent from before the king and his seven counselors to inquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem according to the law of your God which is in your hand," 
Ezra7:15 and to bring the silver and gold, which the king and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, whose dwelling is in Jerusalem," 
Ezra7:16 and all the silver and gold which you find in the whole province of Babylon, along with the freewill offering of the people and of the priests, who offered willingly for the house of their God which is in Jerusalem;" 
Ezra7:17 with this money, therefore, you shall with all diligence buy bulls, rams, and lambs, with their grain offerings and their drink offerings, and bring them near to the altar of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem." 
Ezra7:18 And whatever seems good to you and to your brothers to do with the rest of the silver and gold, you may do according to the will of your God." 
Ezra7:19 Also the utensils which are given to you for the service of the house of your God, deliver in full before the God of Jerusalem." 
Ezra7:20 The rest of the needs for the house of your God, which may fall upon you to provide, provide for it from the royal treasury." 
Ezra7:21 “So I, even I, King Artaxerxes, issue a decree to all the treasurers who are in the provinces beyond the River, that whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, may ask of you, it shall be done with all diligence," 
Ezra7:22 even up to 100 talents of silver, 100 kors of wheat, 100 baths of wine, 100 baths of oil, and salt without written order." 
Ezra7:23 Whatever is decreed by the God of heaven, let it be done with zeal for the house of the God of heaven, so that there will not be wrath against the kingdom of the king and his sons." 
Ezra7:24 We also make known to you that it is not allowed to impose tribute, custom, or toll on any of the priests, Levites, singers, doorkeepers, temple servants, or other servants of this house of God." 
Ezra7:25 “And you, Ezra, according to the wisdom of your God which is in your hand, appoint magistrates and judges that they may judge all the people who are in the province beyond the River, even all those who know the laws of your God; and to anyone who does not know the laws, you shall make them known." 
Ezra7:26 Whoever will not do the law of your God and the law of the king, let judgment be done to him with all diligence, whether for death or for banishment or for confiscation of goods or for imprisonment.”" 
Ezra7:27 Blessed be Yahweh, the God of our fathers, who has put such a thing as this in the king’s heart, to beautify the house of Yahweh which is in Jerusalem," 
Ezra7:28 and has extended lovingkindness to me before the king and his counselors and before all the king’s mighty princes. Thus I was strengthened according to the hand of Yahweh my God upon me, and I gathered chief men from Israel to go up with me." 
Ezra8:1 Now these are the heads of their fathers’ households and the genealogical records of those who went up with me from Babylon in the reign of King Artaxerxes: 
Ezra8:2 of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom; of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel; of the sons of David, Hattush;" 
Ezra8:2 of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom; of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel; of the sons of David, Hattush;" 
Ezra8:3 of the sons of Shecaniah who was of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah and with him 150 males who were in the genealogical records;" 
Ezra8:3 of the sons of Shecaniah who was of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah and with him 150 males who were in the genealogical records;" 
Ezra8:4 of the sons of Pahath-moab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah and 200 males with him;" 
Ezra8:5 of the sons of Zattu, Shecaniah, the son of Jahaziel and 300 males with him;" 
Ezra8:6 and of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan and 50 males with him;" 
Ezra8:7 and of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah and 70 males with him;" 
Ezra8:8 and of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael and 80 males with him;" 
Ezra8:9 of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel and 218 males with him;" 
Ezra8:9 of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel and 218 males with him;" 
Ezra8:10 and of the sons of Bani, Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah and 160 males with him;" 
Ezra8:11 and of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai and 28 males with him;" 
Ezra8:11 and of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai and 28 males with him;" 
Ezra8:12 and of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan and 110 males with him;" 
Ezra8:13 and of the sons of Adonikam, the last ones, these being their names, Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, and 60 males with them;" 
Ezra8:14 and of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai, and Zabbud, and 70 males with them." 
Ezra8:15 Now I gathered them at the river that runs to Ahava, where we camped for three days. And I observed the people and the priests, but I did not find any Levites there." 
Ezra8:16 So I sent for Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah, and Meshullam, chief men, and for Joiarib and Elnathan, teachers." 
Ezra8:16 So I sent for Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah, and Meshullam, chief men, and for Joiarib and Elnathan, teachers." 
Ezra8:17 I sent them out to Iddo the chief man at the place Casiphia; and I put words in their mouths to say to Iddo and his brothers, the temple servants at the place Casiphia, that is, to bring ministers to us for the house of our God." 
Ezra8:18 So, according to the good hand of our God upon us, they brought us a man of insight of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel, namely Sherebiah, and his sons and brothers, 18 men;" 
Ezra8:19 and Hashabiah and Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, with his brothers and their sons, 20 men;" 
Ezra8:20 and 220 of the temple servants, whom David and the princes had given for the service of the Levites, all of them designated by name." 
Ezra8:21 Then I called for a fast there at the river of Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God to seek from Him a direct journey for us, our little ones, and all our possessions." 
Ezra8:22 For I was ashamed to ask from the king for a military force and horsemen to help us against the enemy on the way, because we had said to the king, “The hand of our God is upon all those who seek Him, for their good, but His strength and His anger are against all those who forsake Him.”" 
Ezra8:23 So we fasted and sought our God concerning this matter, and He was moved by our entreaty." 
Ezra8:24 Then I set apart twelve of the leading priests, Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and with them ten of their brothers;" 
Ezra8:25 and I weighed out to them the silver, the gold, and the utensils, the contribution for the house of our God which the king and his counselors and his princes and all Israel present there had offered." 
Ezra8:26 Thus I weighed into their hands 650 talents of silver, and silver utensils worth 100 talents, and 100 gold talents," 
Ezra8:27 and 20 gold bowls worth 1,000 darics, and two utensils of fine shiny bronze, precious as gold." 
Ezra8:28 Then I said to them, “You are holy to Yahweh, and the utensils are holy; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering to Yahweh, the God of your fathers." 
Ezra8:29 Watch and keep them until you weigh them before the officials of the priests, the Levites and the officials of the fathers’ households of Israel at Jerusalem, in the chambers of the house of Yahweh.”" 
Ezra8:30 So the priests and the Levites accepted the weighed out silver and gold and the utensils, to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God." 
Ezra8:31 Then we set out from the river Ahava on the twelfth of the first month to go to Jerusalem; and the hand of our God was upon us, and He delivered us from the hand of the enemy and the ambushes by the way." 
Ezra8:32 Thus we came to Jerusalem and remained there three days. 
Ezra8:33 On the fourth day the silver and the gold and the utensils were weighed out in the house of our God into the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest, and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; and with them were the Levites, Jozabad the son of Jeshua and Noadiah the son of Binnui." 
Ezra8:34 Everything was numbered and weighed, and all the weight was written down at that time." 
Ezra8:35 The exiles who had come from the captivity brought burnt offerings near to the God of Israel: 12 bulls for all Israel, 96 rams, 77 lambs, 12 male goats for a sin offering, all as a burnt offering to Yahweh." 
Ezra8:36 Then they gave the king’s edicts to the king’s satraps and to the governors in the provinces beyond the River, and they supported the people and the house of God." 
Ezra9:1 Now when these things had been completed, the princes approached me, saying, “The people of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands, according to their abominations, those of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians and the Amorites." 
Ezra9:2 For they have taken some of their daughters as wives for themselves and for their sons, so that the holy seed has intermingled with the peoples of the lands; indeed, the hands of the princes and the officials have been foremost in this unfaithfulness.”" 
Ezra9:3 When I heard about this matter, I tore my garment and my robe, and pulled some of the hair from my head and my beard, and sat down in consternation." 
Ezra9:4 Then everyone who trembled at the words of the God of Israel on account of the unfaithfulness of the exiles gathered to me, and I sat appalled until the evening offering." 
Ezra9:5 But at the evening offering I arose from my affliction, even with my garment and my robe torn, and I fell on my knees and stretched out my hands to Yahweh my God;" 
Ezra9:6 and I said, “O my God, I am ashamed and humiliated to lift up my face to You, my God, for our iniquities have multiplied above our heads and our guilt has become great even to the heavens." 
Ezra9:7 Since the days of our fathers to this day we have been in great guilt, and on account of our iniquities we, our kings and our priests have been given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, and to plunder and to open shame, as it is this day." 
Ezra9:8 But now for a brief moment grace has been shown from Yahweh our God, to leave us an escaped remnant and to give us a peg in His holy place, that our God may enlighten our eyes and give us a little reviving in our slavery." 
Ezra9:9 For we are slaves; yet in our slavery our God has not forsaken us, but has extended lovingkindness to us before the kings of Persia, to give us reviving to raise up the house of our God, to restore its waste places, and to give us a wall in Judah and Jerusalem." 
Ezra9:10 “So now, our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken Your commandments," 
Ezra9:11 which You have commanded by the hand of Your slaves the prophets, saying, ‘The land which you are entering to possess is an impure land with the impurity of the peoples of the lands, with their abominations which have filled it from end to end, and with their uncleanness." 
Ezra9:12 So now do not give your daughters to their sons nor take their daughters to your sons, and never seek their peace or their prosperity, that you may be strong and eat the good things of the land and leave it as a possession to your sons forever.’" 
Ezra9:13 After all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and our great guilt, since You our God have requited us less than our iniquities deserve, and have given us an escaped remnant as this," 
Ezra9:14 shall we again break Your commandments and intermarry with the peoples who commit these abominations? Would You not be angry with us to the point of destruction, until there is no remnant nor any who escape?" 
Ezra9:15 O Yahweh, the God of Israel, You are righteous, for we have been left an escaped remnant, as it is this day; behold, we are before You in our guilt, for no one can stand before You because of this.”" 
Ezra10:1 Now while Ezra was praying and making confession, weeping and prostrating himself before the house of God, a very large assembly, men, women, and children, gathered to him from Israel; for the people wept bitterly." 
Ezra10:2 And Shecaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam, answered and said to Ezra, “We have been unfaithful to our God and have married foreign women from the peoples of the land; yet now there is hope for Israel in spite of this." 
Ezra10:3 So now let us cut a covenant with our God to put away all the wives and their children, according to the counsel of my lord and of those who tremble at the commandment of our God; and let it be done according to the law." 
Ezra10:4 Arise! For this matter is your responsibility, but we will be with you; be strong and act.”" 
Ezra10:5 Then Ezra arose and made the leading priests, the Levites and all Israel, swear an oath that they would do according to this word; so they swore an oath." 
Ezra10:6 Then Ezra arose from before the house of God and went into the chamber of Jehohanan the son of Eliashib. He went there, but he did not eat bread nor drink water, for he was mourning over the unfaithfulness of the exiles." 
Ezra10:7 And they made a proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the exiles, that they should gather at Jerusalem," 
Ezra10:8 and that whoever would not come within three days, according to the counsel of the prince and the elders, all his possessions should be devoted to destruction and he himself separated from the assembly of the exiles." 
Ezra10:9 So all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered at Jerusalem within the three days. It was the ninth month on the twentieth of the month, and all the people sat in the open square before the house of God, trembling because of this matter and the heavy rain." 
Ezra10:10 Then Ezra the priest arose and said to them, “You have been unfaithful and have married foreign wives adding to the guilt of Israel." 
Ezra10:11 So now, make confession to Yahweh, the God of your fathers, and do His will; and separate yourselves from the peoples of the land and from the foreign wives.”" 
Ezra10:12 Then all the assembly answered and said with a loud voice, “This is so! As you have said, so it is our duty to do." 
Ezra10:13 But there are many people; it is the rainy season, and we are not able to stand outside. Nor can the task be done in one or two days, for we have transgressed greatly in this matter." 
Ezra10:14 Let our princes stand in for the whole assembly, and let all those in our cities who have married foreign wives come at set times, together with the elders and judges of each city, until the burning anger of our God on account of this matter is turned away from us.”" 
Ezra10:15 However, Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahzeiah the son of Tikvah stood against this, with Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite helping them." 
Ezra10:16 But the exiles did so. And Ezra the priest separated out men who were heads of fathers’ households for each of their father’s households, all of them by name. So they convened on the first day of the tenth month to investigate the matter." 
Ezra10:17 And they completed investigating all the men who had married foreign wives by the first day of the first month. 
Ezra10:18 Among the sons of the priests who had married foreign wives were found of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and his brothers: Maaseiah, Eliezer, Jarib and Gedaliah." 
Ezra10:19 They gave their hand in pledge to put away their wives, and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their guilt." 
Ezra10:20 Of the sons of Immer there were Hanani and Zebadiah; 
Ezra10:21 and of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel and Uzziah;" 
Ezra10:22 and of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad and Elasah." 
Ezra10:23 Of Levites there were Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (that is, Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah and Eliezer." 
Ezra10:24 Of the singers there was Eliashib; and of the gatekeepers: Shallum, Telem and Uri." 
Ezra10:25 Of Israel, of the sons of Parosh there were Ramiah, Izziah, Malchijah, Mijamin, Eleazar, Malchijah and Benaiah;" 
Ezra10:26 and of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth and Elijah;" 
Ezra10:26 and of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth and Elijah;" 
Ezra10:27 and of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad and Aziza;" 
Ezra10:28 and of the sons of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai and Athlai;" 
Ezra10:29 and of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch and Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal and Jeremoth;" 
Ezra10:30 and of the sons of Pahath-moab: Adna, Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui and Manasseh;" 
Ezra10:31 and of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon," 
Ezra10:32 Benjamin, Malluch and Shemariah;" 
Ezra10:33 of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh and Shimei;" 
Ezra10:34 of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, Uel," 
Ezra10:35 Benaiah, Bedeiah, Cheluhi," 
Ezra10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib," 
Ezra10:37 Mattaniah, Mattenai, Jaasu," 
Ezra10:38 Bani, Binnui, Shimei," 
Ezra10:39 Shelemiah, Nathan, Adaiah," 
Ezra10:40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai," 
Ezra10:41 Azarel, Shelemiah, Shemariah," 
Ezra10:42 Shallum, Amariah and Joseph." 
Ezra10:43 Of the sons of Nebo there were Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jaddai, Joel and Benaiah." 
Ezra10:43 Of the sons of Nebo there were Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jaddai, Joel and Benaiah." 
Ezra10:44 All these had taken up foreign women as wives, and some of them had wives by whom they had children." 
Nehemiah1:1 The words of Nehemiah the son of Hacaliah. Now it happened in the month Chislev, in the twentieth year—and I was in Susa the capitol—" 
Nehemiah1:2 that Hanani, one of my brothers, and some men from Judah came; and I asked them concerning the Jews who had escaped and remain from the captivity, and about Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah1:3 They said to me, “The remnant there in the province who remain from the captivity are in great calamity and reproach, and the wall of Jerusalem is broken down and its gates are burned with fire.”" 
Nehemiah1:4 Now it happened that when I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days; and I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven." 
Nehemiah1:5 I said, “I beseech You, O Yahweh, the God of heaven, the great and fearsome God, who keeps the covenant and lovingkindness for those who love Him and keep His commandments," 
Nehemiah1:6 let Your ear now be attentive and Your eyes open to hear the prayer of Your slave which I am praying before You today, day and night, on behalf of the sons of Israel Your slaves, confessing the sins of the sons of Israel which we have sinned against You; I and my father’s house have sinned." 
Nehemiah1:7 We have worked in utter destruction against You and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the judgments which You commanded Your servant Moses." 
Nehemiah1:8 Remember the word which You commanded Your servant Moses, saying, ‘If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples;" 
Nehemiah1:9 but if you return to Me and keep My commandments and do them, though those of you who have been banished were at the ends of the sky, I will gather them from there and will bring them to the place where I have chosen to cause My name to dwell.’" 
Nehemiah1:10 They are Your slaves and Your people whom You redeemed by Your great power and by Your strong hand. 
Nehemiah1:11 O Lord, I beseech You, may Your ear be attentive to the prayer of Your slave and the prayer of Your slaves who delight to fear Your name, and make Your slave successful today and grant him compassion before this man.” Now I was the cupbearer to the king." 
Nehemiah2:1 Now it happened in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes, that wine was before him, and I took up the wine and gave it to the king. Now I had not been sad in his presence." 
Nehemiah2:2 So the king said to me, “Why is your face sad though you are not sick? This is nothing but sadness of heart.” Then I was very much afraid." 
Nehemiah2:3 I said to the king, “Let the king live forever. Why should my face not be sad when the city, the place of my fathers’ tombs, lies waste and its gates have been consumed by fire?”" 
Nehemiah2:4 Then the king said to me, “What would you request?” So I prayed to the God of heaven." 
Nehemiah2:5 I said to the king, “If it is good for the king, and if your servant is good before you, send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers’ tombs, that I may rebuild it.”" 
Nehemiah2:6 Then the king said to me, the queen sitting beside him, “How long will your journey be, and when will you return?” So it was good to the king to send me, and I gave him a set time." 
Nehemiah2:7 And I said to the king, “If it is good to the king, let letters be given me for the governors of the provinces beyond the River, that they may allow me to pass through until I come to Judah," 
Nehemiah2:8 and a letter to Asaph the keeper of the king’s forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the fortress which is by the house of God, for the wall of the city and for the house to which I will go.” And the king granted them to me because the good hand of my God was on me." 
Nehemiah2:9 Then I came to the governors of the provinces beyond the River and gave them the king’s letters. Now the king had sent with me commanders of the military force and horsemen. 
Nehemiah2:10 Then Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite official heard about it, and it was a very great evil to them that someone had come to seek the good of the sons of Israel." 
Nehemiah2:11 So I came to Jerusalem and was there three days. 
Nehemiah2:12 And I arose in the night, I and a few men with me. I did not tell anyone what my God was putting into my heart to do for Jerusalem; and there was no animal with me except the animal on which I was riding." 
Nehemiah2:13 So I went out at night by the Valley Gate in the direction of the Dragon’s Spring and on to the Dung Gate, inspecting the walls of Jerusalem which were broken down and its gates which were consumed by fire." 
Nehemiah2:14 Then I passed on to the Spring Gate and the King’s Pool, but there was no place for my animal to pass." 
Nehemiah2:15 So I went up at night by the ravine and inspected the wall. Then I turned and entered the Valley Gate and turned around. 
Nehemiah2:16 Now the officials did not know where I had gone or what I was doing; nor had I as yet told the Jews, the priests, the nobles, the officials, or the rest who were doing the work." 
Nehemiah2:17 Then I said to them, “You see the calamity we are in, that Jerusalem lies waste and its gates burned by fire. Come, let us rebuild the wall of Jerusalem so that we will no longer be a reproach.”" 
Nehemiah2:18 And I told them how the hand of my God had been good to me and also about the king’s words which he had said to me. Then they said, “Let us arise and build.” So they strengthened their hands for the good work." 
Nehemiah2:19 But Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite official and Geshem the Arab heard it. And they mocked us and despised us and said, “What is this thing you are doing? Are you rebelling against the king?”" 
Nehemiah2:20 So I responded to them with a word and said to them, “The God of heaven will give us success; therefore we His slaves will arise and build, but you have no portion, right, or remembrance in Jerusalem.”" 
Nehemiah3:1 Then Eliashib the high priest arose with his brothers the priests and built the Sheep Gate; they set it apart as holy and made its doors stand. And they set apart as holy the wall to the Tower of the Hundred and the Tower of Hananel. 
Nehemiah3:2 Next to him the men of Jericho built, and next to them Zaccur the son of Imri built." 
Nehemiah3:3 Now the sons of Hassenaah built the Fish Gate; they laid its beams and made its doors stand with its bolts and bars. 
Nehemiah3:4 Next to them Meremoth the son of Uriah the son of Hakkoz made repairs. And next to them Meshullam the son of Berechiah the son of Meshezabel made repairs. And next to them Zadok the son of Baana also made repairs. 
Nehemiah3:5 Moreover, next to them the Tekoites made repairs, but their nobles did not support the service of their masters." 
Nehemiah3:6 Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah repaired the Old Gate; they laid its beams and made its doors stand with its bolts and its bars. 
Nehemiah3:7 Next to them Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, also made repairs for the official seat of the governor of the province beyond the River." 
Nehemiah3:8 Next to him Uzziel the son of Harhaiah of the goldsmiths made repairs. And next to him Hananiah, one of the perfumers, made repairs, and they restored Jerusalem as far as the Broad Wall." 
Nehemiah3:9 Next to them Rephaiah the son of Hur, the official of half the district of Jerusalem, made repairs." 
Nehemiah3:10 Next to them Jedaiah the son of Harumaph made repairs opposite his house. And next to him Hattush the son of Hashabneiah made repairs. 
Nehemiah3:11 Malchijah the son of Harim and Hasshub the son of Pahath-moab repaired another section and the Tower of Furnaces. 
Nehemiah3:12 Next to him Shallum the son of Hallohesh, the official of half the district of Jerusalem, made repairs, he and his daughters." 
Nehemiah3:13 Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah repaired the Valley Gate. They built it and made its doors stand with its bolts and its bars, and one thousand cubits of the wall to the Dung Gate." 
Nehemiah3:14 Malchijah the son of Rechab, the official of the district of Beth-haccherem, repaired the Dung Gate. He built it and made its doors stand with its bolts and its bars." 
Nehemiah3:15 Shallum the son of Col-hozeh, the official of the district of Mizpah, repaired the Spring Gate. He built it, covered it and made its doors stand with its bolts and its bars, and the wall of the Pool of Shelah at the king’s garden as far as the steps that descend from the city of David." 
Nehemiah3:16 After him Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, official of half the district of Beth-zur, made repairs as far as a point opposite the tombs of David, and as far as the artificial pool and the house of the mighty men." 
Nehemiah3:17 After him the Levites made repairs under Rehum the son of Bani. Next to him Hashabiah, the official of half the district of Keilah, made repairs for his district." 
Nehemiah3:18 After him their brothers made repairs under Bavvai the son of Henadad, the official of the other half of the district of Keilah." 
Nehemiah3:19 Next to him Ezer the son of Jeshua, the official of Mizpah, repaired another section in front of the ascent of the armory at the Angle." 
Nehemiah3:20 After him Baruch the son of Zabbai zealously repaired another section, from the Angle to the doorway of the house of Eliashib the high priest." 
Nehemiah3:21 After him Meremoth the son of Uriah the son of Hakkoz repaired another section, from the doorway of Eliashib’s house even as far as the end of Eliashib’s house." 
Nehemiah3:22 After him the priests, the men of the valley, made repairs." 
Nehemiah3:23 After them Benjamin and Hasshub made repairs in front of their house. After them Azariah the son of Maaseiah, son of Ananiah, made repairs beside his house." 
Nehemiah3:24 After him Binnui the son of Henadad repaired another section, from the house of Azariah as far as the Angle and as far as the corner." 
Nehemiah3:25 Palal the son of Uzai made repairs in front of the Angle and the tower projecting from the upper house of the king, which is by the court of the guard. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh made repairs." 
Nehemiah3:26 The temple servants living in Ophel made repairs as far as the front of the Water Gate toward the east and the projecting tower. 
Nehemiah3:27 After them the Tekoites repaired another section in front of the great projecting tower and as far as the wall of Ophel. 
Nehemiah3:28 Above the Horse Gate the priests made repairs, each in front of his house." 
Nehemiah3:29 After them Zadok the son of Immer made repairs in front of his house. And after him Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the East Gate, made repairs." 
Nehemiah3:30 After him Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, repaired another section. After him Meshullam the son of Berechiah made repairs in front of his own quarters." 
Nehemiah3:31 After him Malchijah, one of the goldsmiths, made repairs as far as the house of the temple servants and of the merchants, in front of the Inspection Gate, and as far as the upper room of the corner." 
Nehemiah3:32 Between the upper room of the corner and the Sheep Gate, the goldsmiths and the merchants made repairs." 
Nehemiah4:1 Now it happened that when Sanballat heard that we were rebuilding the wall, he became angry and very vexed and mocked the Jews." 
Nehemiah4:2 He spoke in the presence of his brothers and the wealthy men of Samaria and said, “What are these feeble Jews doing? Are they going to restore it for themselves? Can they offer sacrifices? Can they complete it in a day? Can they bring the stones to life from the dusty rubble, though they are burned?”" 
Nehemiah4:3 Now Tobiah the Ammonite was near him and he said, “Even what they are building—if a fox should jump on it, he would break their stone wall down!”" 
Nehemiah4:4 Hear, O our God, for we are despised! Return their reproach on their own heads and give them up for plunder in a land of captivity." 
Nehemiah4:5 Do not forgive their iniquity and let not their sin be blotted out before You, for they have vexed the builders." 
Nehemiah4:6 So we built the wall and the whole wall was joined together to half its height, and the people had a heart to work." 
Nehemiah4:7 Now it happened that when Sanballat, Tobiah, the Arabs, the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites heard that the repair of the walls of Jerusalem went on, and that the places broken down began to be closed, they were very angry." 
Nehemiah4:8 All of them joined together to come and fight against Jerusalem and to cause a disturbance in it. 
Nehemiah4:9 But we prayed to our God, and because of them we stood a guard against them day and night." 
Nehemiah4:10 Then Judah said, “The strength of the burden bearers is failing, Yet there is much rubbish; And we ourselves are unable To rebuild the wall.”" 
Nehemiah4:11 Our adversaries said, “They will not know or see until we come among them, kill them, and put a stop to the work.”" 
Nehemiah4:12 Now it happened when the Jews who lived near them came and said to us ten times, “They will come up against us from every place where you may turn,”" 
Nehemiah4:13 that I had men stand in the lowest parts of the space behind the wall, the exposed places, and I had the people stand by families with their swords, spears, and bows." 
Nehemiah4:14 Then I saw their fear. And I arose and said to the nobles, the officials, and the rest of the people: “Do not fear them; remember the Lord who is great and fearsome, and fight for your brothers, your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your houses.”" 
Nehemiah4:15 Now it happened that when our enemies heard that it was known to us, and that God had thwarted their counsel, then all of us returned to the wall, each one to his work." 
Nehemiah4:16 And it happened that from that day on, half of my young men carried on the work while half of them took hold of the spears, the shields, the bows, and the breastplates; and the commanders were behind the whole house of Judah." 
Nehemiah4:17 Those who were rebuilding the wall and those who carried burdens took their load with one hand doing the work and the other holding a weapon. 
Nehemiah4:18 As for the builders, each wore his sword girded at his side as he built, while the trumpeter stood near me." 
Nehemiah4:19 I said to the nobles, the officials and the rest of the people, “The work is great and extensive, and we are separated on the wall far from one another." 
Nehemiah4:20 At whatever place you hear the sound of the trumpet, there gather together to us. Our God will fight for us.”" 
Nehemiah4:21 So we kept doing the work with half of them holding spears from dawn until the stars came out. 
Nehemiah4:22 At that time I also said to the people, “Let each man with his young man spend the night within Jerusalem so that they may be a guard for us by night and a worker by day.”" 
Nehemiah4:23 So neither I, my brothers, my young men, nor the men of the guard who followed me, none of us removed our clothes, each took his weapon even to the water." 
Nehemiah5:1 Then there was a great outcry of the people and of their wives against their Jewish brothers. 
Nehemiah5:2 Now there were those who were saying, “We, with our sons and our daughters, are many; therefore let us get grain that we may eat and live.”" 
Nehemiah5:3 There were others who were saying, “We are mortgaging our fields, our vineyards, and our houses, that we might get grain because of the famine.”" 
Nehemiah5:4 Also there were those who were saying, “We have borrowed money for the king’s tax on our fields and our vineyards." 
Nehemiah5:5 But now our flesh is like the flesh of our brothers, our children like their children. Yet behold, we are forcing our sons and our daughters to be slaves, and some of our daughters are forced into subjugation, and we have no power in our hands to help, and our fields and vineyards belong to others.”" 
Nehemiah5:6 Then I was very angry when I had heard their outcry and these words. 
Nehemiah5:7 I consulted within my own heart and contended with the nobles and the officials and said to them, “You are exacting usury, each from his brother!” Therefore, I held a great assembly against them." 
Nehemiah5:8 I said to them, “We, according to our ability, have bought back our Jewish brothers who were sold to the nations; and now would you also sell your brothers that they may be sold to us?” Then they were silent and could not find a word to say." 
Nehemiah5:9 And I said, “The thing which you are doing is not good; should you not walk in the fear of our God because of the reproach of the nations, our enemies?" 
Nehemiah5:10 And likewise I, my brothers, and my young men are lending them money and grain. Please, let us forsake this usury." 
Nehemiah5:11 Please, give back to them this very day their fields, their vineyards, their olive groves and their houses, also the hundredth part of the money and of the grain, the new wine and the oil that you are exacting from them.”" 
Nehemiah5:12 Then they said, “We will give it back and will require nothing from them; we will do exactly as you are saying.” So I called the priests and made them swear that they would do according to this word." 
Nehemiah5:13 I also shook out the front of my garment and said, “Thus may God shake out every man from his house and from his possessions who does not establish this word; even thus may he be shaken out and emptied.” And all the assembly said, “Amen!” And they praised Yahweh. Then the people did according to this word." 
Nehemiah5:14 Moreover, from the day that I was put in command to be their governor in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year to the thirty-second year of King Artaxerxes, for twelve years, neither I nor my relatives have eaten the governor’s food allowance." 
Nehemiah5:15 But the former governors who were before me laid heavy burdens on the people and took from them bread and wine besides forty shekels of silver; even their young men exerted their power over the people. But I did not do so because of the fear of God. 
Nehemiah5:16 I also took hold of the work on this wall; we did not buy any land, and all my young men were gathered there for the work." 
Nehemiah5:17 Moreover, there were at my table 150 Jews and officials, besides those who came to us from the nations that were around us." 
Nehemiah5:18 Now that which was prepared for each day was one ox and six choice sheep, also birds were prepared for me; and once in ten days all sorts of wine were furnished in abundance. Yet for all this I did not require the governor’s food allowance, because the slavery was heavy on this people." 
Nehemiah5:19 Remember me, O my God, for good, according to all that I have done for this people." 
Nehemiah6:1 Now it happened when it was heard by Sanballat, Tobiah, Geshem the Arab, and the rest of our enemies that I had rebuilt the wall, and that no breach remained in it, although at that time I had not made the doors to stand in the gates," 
Nehemiah6:2 that Sanballat and Geshem sent a message to me, saying, “Come, let us meet together at Chephirim in the plain of Ono.” But they were planning to do me harm." 
Nehemiah6:3 So I sent messengers to them, saying, “I am doing a great work and I cannot come down. Why should the work stop while I leave it and come down to you?”" 
Nehemiah6:4 And they sent messages to me four times in this manner, and I responded to them in the same manner." 
Nehemiah6:5 Then Sanballat sent his young man to me in the same manner a fifth time with an open letter in his hand. 
Nehemiah6:6 In it was written, “It is heard among the nations, and Gashmu says, that you and the Jews are planning to rebel; therefore you are rebuilding the wall. And you are to be their king, according to these words." 
Nehemiah6:7 You have also set up prophets to call out in Jerusalem concerning you, ‘A king is in Judah!’ So now it will be heard by the king according to these words. So now, come, let us take counsel together.”" 
Nehemiah6:8 Then I sent a message to him, saying, “Such words as you are saying have not been done, but you are devising them in your own heart.”" 
Nehemiah6:9 For all of them were trying to frighten us, thinking, “Their hands will become limp in doing the work, and it will not be done.” But now, O God, strengthen my hands." 
Nehemiah6:10 Now I entered the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah, son of Mehetabel, who was confined at home, and he said, “Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us close the doors of the temple, for they are coming to kill you, and they are coming to kill you at night.”" 
Nehemiah6:11 But I said, “Should a man like me flee? And could one such as I go into the temple just to live? I will not go in.”" 
Nehemiah6:12 Then I recognized that surely God had not sent him, but he spoke his prophecy against me because Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him." 
Nehemiah6:13 He was hired for this reason, that I might become afraid and act accordingly and sin, so that they could give me a bad name in order that they could reproach me." 
Nehemiah6:14 Remember, O my God, Tobiah and Sanballat according to these works of theirs, and also Noadiah the prophetess and the rest of the prophets who were trying to make me afraid." 
Nehemiah6:15 So the wall was finished on the twenty-fifth of the month Elul, in fifty-two days." 
Nehemiah6:16 Now it happened that when all our enemies heard of it, and all the nations surrounding us saw it, their confidence fell. And they knew that it was from our God that this work had been accomplished." 
Nehemiah6:17 Also in those days many letters went from the nobles of Judah to Tobiah, and Tobiah’s letters came to them." 
Nehemiah6:18 For many in Judah were sworn by oath to him because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Arah, and his son Jehohanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah as a wife." 
Nehemiah6:19 Moreover, they were speaking about his good deeds in my presence and bringing my words to him. Then Tobiah sent letters to make me afraid." 
Nehemiah7:1 Now it happened when the wall was rebuilt and I had made the doors to stand, and the gatekeepers and the singers and the Levites were appointed," 
Nehemiah7:2 that I commanded Hanani my brother and Hananiah the commander of the fortress, to be over Jerusalem, for he was a faithful man and feared God more than many." 
Nehemiah7:3 Then I said to them, “The gates of Jerusalem must not be opened until the sun is hot; and until they are there standing guard, they must shut and bolt the doors. Also have guards from the inhabitants of Jerusalem stand, each at his post, and each in front of his own house.”" 
Nehemiah7:4 Now the city was large and spacious, but the people in it were few and the houses were not rebuilt." 
Nehemiah7:5 Then my God put it into my heart, and I gathered the nobles, the officials, and the people to be recorded by genealogies. Then I found the book of the genealogy of those who came up first, and in it I found written:" 
Nehemiah7:6 These are the people of the province who came up out of the captivity of the exiles whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had taken away into exile, and who returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his city," 
Nehemiah7:7 who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of men of the people of Israel:" 
Nehemiah7:8 the sons of Parosh, 2,172;" 
Nehemiah7:9 the sons of Shephatiah, 372;" 
Nehemiah7:10 the sons of Arah, 652;" 
Nehemiah7:11 the sons of Pahath-moab of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, 2,818;" 
Nehemiah7:12 the sons of Elam, 1,254;" 
Nehemiah7:13 the sons of Zattu, 845;" 
Nehemiah7:14 the sons of Zaccai, 760;" 
Nehemiah7:15 the sons of Binnui, 648;" 
Nehemiah7:16 the sons of Bebai, 628;" 
Nehemiah7:17 the sons of Azgad, 2,322;" 
Nehemiah7:18 the sons of Adonikam, 667;" 
Nehemiah7:19 the sons of Bigvai, 2,067;" 
Nehemiah7:20 the sons of Adin, 655;" 
Nehemiah7:21 the sons of Ater, of Hezekiah, 98;" 
Nehemiah7:22 the sons of Hashum, 328;" 
Nehemiah7:23 the sons of Bezai, 324;" 
Nehemiah7:24 the sons of Hariph, 112;" 
Nehemiah7:25 the sons of Gibeon, 95;" 
Nehemiah7:26 the men of Bethlehem and Netophah, 188;" 
Nehemiah7:27 the men of Anathoth, 128;" 
Nehemiah7:28 the men of Beth-azmaveth, 42;" 
Nehemiah7:29 the men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, 743;" 
Nehemiah7:30 the men of Ramah and Geba, 621;" 
Nehemiah7:31 the men of Michmas, 122;" 
Nehemiah7:32 the men of Bethel and Ai, 123;" 
Nehemiah7:33 the men of the other Nebo, 52;" 
Nehemiah7:34 the sons of the other Elam, 1,254;" 
Nehemiah7:35 the sons of Harim, 320;" 
Nehemiah7:36 the men of Jericho, 345;" 
Nehemiah7:37 the sons of Lod, Hadid and Ono, 721;" 
Nehemiah7:38 the sons of Senaah, 3,930." 
Nehemiah7:39 The priests: the sons of Jedaiah of the house of Jeshua, 973;" 
Nehemiah7:40 the sons of Immer, 1,052;" 
Nehemiah7:41 the sons of Pashhur, 1,247;" 
Nehemiah7:42 the sons of Harim, 1,017." 
Nehemiah7:43 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodevah, 74." 
Nehemiah7:44 The singers: the sons of Asaph, 148." 
Nehemiah7:45 The gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, 138." 
Nehemiah7:46 The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth," 
Nehemiah7:47 the sons of Keros, the sons of Sia, the sons of Padon," 
Nehemiah7:48 the sons of Lebana, the sons of Hagaba, the sons of Shalmai," 
Nehemiah7:49 the sons of Hanan, the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar," 
Nehemiah7:50 the sons of Reaiah, the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda," 
Nehemiah7:51 the sons of Gazzam, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah," 
Nehemiah7:52 the sons of Besai, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephushesim," 
Nehemiah7:53 the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur," 
Nehemiah7:54 the sons of Bazlith, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha," 
Nehemiah7:55 the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah," 
Nehemiah7:56 the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha." 
Nehemiah7:57 The sons of Solomon’s servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Perida," 
Nehemiah7:58 the sons of Jaala, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel," 
Nehemiah7:59 the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the sons of Amon." 
Nehemiah7:60 All the temple servants and the sons of Solomon’s servants were 392. 
Nehemiah7:61 Now these were those who came up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer; but they were not able to declare their fathers’ houses or their fathers’ seed, whether they were of Israel:" 
Nehemiah7:62 the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, 642." 
Nehemiah7:63 Of the priests: the sons of Hobaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai, the Gileadite, and he was called by their name." 
Nehemiah7:64 These searched in their genealogical records, but it could not be found; therefore they were considered unclean and excluded from the priesthood." 
Nehemiah7:65 And the governor said to them that they should not eat from the most holy things until a priest stood with Urim and Thummim. 
Nehemiah7:66 The whole assembly together was 42,360," 
Nehemiah7:67 besides their male and their female slaves, of whom there were 7,337; and they had 245 male and female singers." 
Nehemiah7:68 Their horses were 736; their mules, 245;" 
Nehemiah7:69 their camels, 435; their donkeys, 6,720." 
Nehemiah7:70 Some from among the heads of fathers’ households gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury 1,000 gold drachmas, 50 bowls, 530 priests’ tunics." 
Nehemiah7:71 Some of the heads of fathers’ households gave into the treasury of the work 20,000 gold drachmas and 2,200 silver minas." 
Nehemiah7:72 That which the rest of the people gave was 20,000 gold drachmas and 2,000 silver minas and 67 priests’ tunics." 
Nehemiah7:73 So the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, some of the people, the temple servants, and all Israel lived in their cities. Then the seventh month came, and the sons of Israel were in their cities." 
Nehemiah8:1 And all the people gathered as one man at the square which was in front of the Water Gate, and they said to Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses which Yahweh had commanded to Israel." 
Nehemiah8:1 And all the people gathered as one man at the square which was in front of the Water Gate, and they said to Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses which Yahweh had commanded to Israel." 
Nehemiah8:2 Then Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly of men, women, and all who could understand when listening, on the first day of the seventh month." 
Nehemiah8:2 Then Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly of men, women, and all who could understand when listening, on the first day of the seventh month." 
Nehemiah8:3 And he read from it before the square which was in front of the Water Gate from early morning until midday, in the presence of men and women, those who could understand; and all the ears of the people were attentive to the book of the law." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden podium which they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right hand; and Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchijah, Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and Meshullam on his left hand." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden podium which they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right hand; and Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchijah, Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and Meshullam on his left hand." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden podium which they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right hand; and Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchijah, Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and Meshullam on his left hand." 
Nehemiah8:5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people for he was above all the people; and when he opened it, all the people stood up." 
Nehemiah8:5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people for he was above all the people; and when he opened it, all the people stood up." 
Nehemiah8:6 Then Ezra blessed Yahweh the great God. And all the people answered, “Amen, Amen!” while lifting up their hands; then they bowed low and worshiped Yahweh with their faces to the ground." 
Nehemiah8:6 Then Ezra blessed Yahweh the great God. And all the people answered, “Amen, Amen!” while lifting up their hands; then they bowed low and worshiped Yahweh with their faces to the ground." 
Nehemiah8:7 Also Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, the Levites, were providing understanding of the law to the people while the people stood in their place." 
Nehemiah8:8 They read from the book, from the law of God, explaining and giving insight, and they provided understanding of the reading." 
Nehemiah8:9 Then Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites, who provided the people with understanding, said to all the people, “This day is holy to Yahweh your God; do not mourn or weep.” For all the people were weeping when they heard the words of the law." 
Nehemiah8:9 Then Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites, who provided the people with understanding, said to all the people, “This day is holy to Yahweh your God; do not mourn or weep.” For all the people were weeping when they heard the words of the law." 
Nehemiah8:10 Then he said to them, “Go, eat of the fat, drink of the sweet, and send portions to him who has nothing prepared; for this day is holy to our Lord. Do not be grieved, for the joy of Yahweh is your strength.”" 
Nehemiah8:11 So the Levites quieted all the people, saying, “Be still, for the day is holy; do not be grieved.”" 
Nehemiah8:12 Then all the people went away to eat, to drink, to send portions, and to celebrate with great gladness, because they understood the words which had been made known to them." 
Nehemiah8:13 Then on the second day the heads of fathers’ households of all the people, the priests and the Levites were gathered to Ezra the scribe that they might gain insight into the words of the law." 
Nehemiah8:13 Then on the second day the heads of fathers’ households of all the people, the priests and the Levites were gathered to Ezra the scribe that they might gain insight into the words of the law." 
Nehemiah8:14 They found written in the law how Yahweh had commanded by the hand of Moses that the sons of Israel should live in booths during the feast of the seventh month," 
Nehemiah8:15 and that they should make the report heard and make a proclamation of it pass throughout all their cities and in Jerusalem, saying, “Go out to the hills, and bring olive branches and wild olive branches, myrtle branches, palm branches, and branches of other leafy trees, to make booths, as it is written.”" 
Nehemiah8:16 So the people went out and brought them and made booths for themselves, each on his roof, and in their courts and in the courts of the house of God, and in the square at the Water Gate and in the square at the Gate of Ephraim." 
Nehemiah8:17 The entire assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made booths and lived in the booths. The sons of Israel had indeed not done so from the days of Joshua the son of Nun to that day. And there was exceedingly great gladness. 
Nehemiah8:17 The entire assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made booths and lived in the booths. The sons of Israel had indeed not done so from the days of Joshua the son of Nun to that day. And there was exceedingly great gladness. 
Nehemiah8:18 And he read from the book of the law of God daily, from the first day to the last day. And they celebrated the feast seven days, and on the eighth day there was a solemn assembly according to the legal judgment." 
Nehemiah9:1 Now on the twenty-fourth day of this month the sons of Israel gathered with fasting, in sackcloth and with dirt upon them." 
Nehemiah9:2 The seed of Israel separated themselves from all foreigners, and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers." 
Nehemiah9:3 And they rose up in their place and read from the book of the law of Yahweh their God for a fourth of the day; and for another fourth they were confessing and worshiping Yahweh their God. 
Nehemiah9:4 Then Jeshua rose up on the Levites’ platform, along with Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani, and they cried out with a loud voice to Yahweh their God." 
Nehemiah9:5 And the Levites, Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, “Rise up, bless Yahweh your God from everlasting to everlasting! O may Your glorious name be blessed And exalted above all blessing and praise!" 
Nehemiah9:6 You alone are Yahweh. You have made the heavens, The heaven of heavens with all their host, The earth and all that is on it, The seas and all that is in them. You give life to all of them And the heavenly host bows down to You." 
Nehemiah9:7 You are Yahweh God, Who chose Abram And brought him out from Ur of the Chaldees, And gave him the name Abraham." 
Nehemiah9:8 You found his heart faithful before You, And cut a covenant with him To give him the land of the Canaanite, Of the Hittite and the Amorite, Of the Perizzite, the Jebusite, and the Girgashite— To give it to his seed. And You have established Your promise, For You are righteous." 
Nehemiah9:9 “You saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, And heard their cry by the Red Sea." 
Nehemiah9:10 Then You performed signs and wonders against Pharaoh, Against all his servants and all the people of his land; For You knew that they acted presumptuously toward them, And made a name for Yourself as it is this day." 
Nehemiah9:11 You split the sea before them, So they passed through the midst of the sea on dry land; And their pursuers You cast into the depths, Like a stone into mighty waters." 
Nehemiah9:12 And with a pillar of cloud You led them by day, And with a pillar of fire by night To light for them the way In which they were to go." 
Nehemiah9:13 Then You came down on Mount Sinai, And spoke with them from heaven; You gave them upright judgments and true laws, Good statutes and commandments." 
Nehemiah9:14 So You made known to them Your holy sabbath, And commanded to them commandments, statutes and law, By the hand of Your servant Moses." 
Nehemiah9:15 You gave bread from heaven for them for their hunger, You brought forth water from a rock for them for their thirst, And You said to them to enter in order to possess The land which You swore to give them." 
Nehemiah9:16 “But they, our fathers, acted presumptuously; They became stiff‑necked and would not listen to Your commandments." 
Nehemiah9:17 They refused to listen, And did not remember Your wondrous deeds which You did among them; So they became stiff‑necked and gave themselves a chief to return to their slavery in Egypt. But You are a God of lavish forgiveness, Gracious and compassionate, Slow to anger and abounding in lovingkindness; And You did not forsake them." 
Nehemiah9:18 Even when they made for themselves A molten calf And said, ‘This is your God Who brought you up from Egypt,’ And committed great blasphemies," 
Nehemiah9:19 But You, in Your abundant compassion, Did not forsake them in the wilderness; The pillar of cloud did not depart from them by day, To lead them on their way, Nor the pillar of fire by night, To light for them the way in which they were to go." 
Nehemiah9:20 You gave Your good Spirit to give them insight, Your manna You did not withhold from their mouth, And You gave them water for their thirst." 
Nehemiah9:21 Indeed, forty years You sustained them in the wilderness, and they did not lack; Their clothes did not wear out, nor did their feet swell." 
Nehemiah9:22 You also gave them kingdoms and peoples, And apportioned them to them as a boundary. They took possession of the land of Sihon the king of Heshbon And the land of Og the king of Bashan." 
Nehemiah9:23 You made their sons numerous as the stars of heaven, And You brought them into the land Which You had said for their fathers to enter and possess." 
Nehemiah9:24 So their sons entered and possessed the land. And You subdued before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, And You gave them into their hand, with their kings and the peoples of the land, To do with them according to their desire." 
Nehemiah9:25 They captured fortified cities and a rich land. They took possession of houses full of every good thing, Hewn cisterns, vineyards, olive groves, Trees for food in abundance. So they ate, were filled, and grew fat, And reveled in Your great goodness." 
Nehemiah9:26 “But they became disobedient and rebelled against You, And cast Your law behind their backs And killed Your prophets who had testified to them So that they might return to You, And they committed great blasphemies." 
Nehemiah9:27 Therefore You gave them into the hand of the ones who distressed them, and they afflicted them with distress, But at the time of their distress they cried to You, And You listened from heaven, and according to Your abundant compassion You gave them saviors and they saved them from the hand of the ones that distressed them." 
Nehemiah9:28 But as soon as they had rest, they returned to do evil before You; Therefore You forsook them in the hand of their enemies, so they had dominion over them. Then they returned and cried to You. And You listened from heaven, And many times You delivered them according to Your compassion," 
Nehemiah9:29 And testified to them in order to turn them back to Your law. Yet they acted presumptuously and did not listen to Your commandments but sinned against Your judgments, By which if a man does them, he shall live. And they gave a stubborn shoulder and stiffened their neck, and would not listen." 
Nehemiah9:30 However, You bore with them for many years, And testified to them by Your Spirit by the hand of Your prophets, Yet they would not give ear. So You gave them into the hand of the peoples of the lands." 
Nehemiah9:31 Nevertheless, in Your abundant compassion You did not make a complete destruction of them or forsake them, For You are a gracious and compassionate God." 
Nehemiah9:32 “So now, our God, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who keeps covenant and lovingkindness, Do not let all the hardship seem insignificant before You, Which has found us, our kings, our princes, our priests, our prophets, our fathers, and all Your people, From the days of the kings of Assyria to this day." 
Nehemiah9:33 However, You are righteous in all that has come upon us; For You have dealt in truth, but we have acted wickedly." 
Nehemiah9:34 Now our kings, our princes, our priests, and our fathers did not do Your law Or pay attention to Your commandments and Your testimonies with which You testified against them." 
Nehemiah9:35 But they, in their own kingdom, With Your abundant goodness which You gave them, With the broad and rich land which You set before them, Did not serve You or turn from their evil deeds." 
Nehemiah9:36 Behold, we are slaves today, And as to the land which You gave to our fathers to eat of its fruit and its goodness, Behold, we are slaves in it." 
Nehemiah9:37 Its abundant produce is for the kings Whom You have put over us because of our sins; They also rule over our bodies And over our cattle according to their desire, So we are in great distress." 
Nehemiah9:38 “Now because of all this We are cutting an agreement in writing; And on the sealed document are the names of our princes, our Levites, and our priests.”" 
Nehemiah10:1 Now on the sealed document were the following names: Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hacaliah, and Zedekiah," 
Nehemiah10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah10:3 Pashhur, Amariah, Malchijah," 
Nehemiah10:4 Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch," 
Nehemiah10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah," 
Nehemiah10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah," 
Nehemiah10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch," 
Nehemiah10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch," 
Nehemiah10:7 Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin," 
Nehemiah10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah. These were the priests." 
Nehemiah10:9 And the Levites: Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel;" 
Nehemiah10:10 also their brothers Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan," 
Nehemiah10:11 Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah," 
Nehemiah10:12 Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah," 
Nehemiah10:13 Hodiah, Bani, Beninu." 
Nehemiah10:14 The heads of the people: Parosh, Pahath-moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani," 
Nehemiah10:15 Bunni, Azgad, Bebai," 
Nehemiah10:16 Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin," 
Nehemiah10:17 Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur," 
Nehemiah10:18 Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai," 
Nehemiah10:19 Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai," 
Nehemiah10:20 Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir," 
Nehemiah10:21 Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua," 
Nehemiah10:22 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah," 
Nehemiah10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub," 
Nehemiah10:24 Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek," 
Nehemiah10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah," 
Nehemiah10:26 Ahiah, Hanan, Anan," 
Nehemiah10:27 Malluch, Harim, Baanah." 
Nehemiah10:28 Now the rest of the people—the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, the temple servants, and all those who had separated themselves from the peoples of the lands to the law of God, their wives, their sons and their daughters—all those who had knowledge and understanding," 
Nehemiah10:29 are joining with their relatives, their nobles, and are entering into a curse and an oath to walk in God’s law, which was given by the hand of Moses, God’s servant, and to keep and to do all the commandments of Yahweh our Lord and His judgments and His statutes;" 
Nehemiah10:30 and that we will not give our daughters to the peoples of the land or take their daughters for our sons. 
Nehemiah10:31 As for the peoples of the land who bring wares or any grain on the sabbath day to sell, we will not receive from them on the sabbath or a holy day; and we will forego the crops the seventh year and the exaction of every debt." 
Nehemiah10:32 We also set ourselves under the commandments to give yearly one-third of a shekel for the service of the house of our God: 
Nehemiah10:33 for the showbread, for the continual grain offering, for the continual burnt offering, the sabbaths, the new moon, for the appointed times, for the holy things and for the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel, and all the work of the house of our God." 
Nehemiah10:34 Likewise we cast lots for the supply of wood among the priests, the Levites, and the people, in order to bring it to the house of our God, according to our fathers’ households, at fixed times annually, to burn on the altar of Yahweh our God, as it is written in the law;" 
Nehemiah10:35 and to bring the first fruits of our ground and the first fruits of all the fruit of every tree to the house of Yahweh annually," 
Nehemiah10:36 and to bring to the house of our God the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, and the firstborn of our herds and our flocks as it is written in the law, for the priests who are ministering in the house of our God." 
Nehemiah10:37 We will also bring the first of our dough, our contributions, the fruit of every tree, the new wine and the oil to the priests at the chambers of the house of our God, and the tithe of our ground to the Levites, for the Levites are they who receive the tithes in all the towns where we serve." 
Nehemiah10:38 And the priest, the son of Aaron, shall be with the Levites when the Levites receive tithes, and the Levites shall bring up the tenth of the tithes to the house of our God, to the chambers of the storehouse." 
Nehemiah10:39 For the sons of Israel and the sons of Levi shall bring the contribution of the grain, the new wine and the oil to the chambers; the utensils of the sanctuary are there, as well as the priests who are ministering and the gatekeepers and the singers. Thus we will not forsake the house of our God." 
Nehemiah11:1 And the officials of the people lived in Jerusalem, but the rest of the people cast lots to bring one out of ten to live in Jerusalem, the holy city, while nine-tenths remained in the other cities." 
Nehemiah11:2 And the people blessed all the men who freely offered to live in Jerusalem. 
Nehemiah11:3 Now these are the heads of the provinces who lived in Jerusalem, but in the cities of Judah each lived in his own possession in their cities—the Israelites, the priests, the Levites, the temple servants, and the sons of Solomon’s servants." 
Nehemiah11:4 And some of the sons of Judah and some of the sons of Benjamin lived in Jerusalem. From the sons of Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, from the sons of Perez;" 
Nehemiah11:4 And some of the sons of Judah and some of the sons of Benjamin lived in Jerusalem. From the sons of Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, from the sons of Perez;" 
Nehemiah11:5 and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Col-hozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of the Shilonite." 
Nehemiah11:5 and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Col-hozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of the Shilonite." 
Nehemiah11:6 All the sons of Perez who lived in Jerusalem were 468 valiant men. 
Nehemiah11:7 Now these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah;" 
Nehemiah11:8 and after him Gabbai and Sallai, 928." 
Nehemiah11:9 Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer, and Judah the son of Hassenuah was second in command of the city." 
Nehemiah11:9 Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer, and Judah the son of Hassenuah was second in command of the city." 
Nehemiah11:10 From the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin," 
Nehemiah11:11 Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the leader of the house of God," 
Nehemiah11:12 and their relatives who did the work of the house, 822; and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah," 
Nehemiah11:12 and their relatives who did the work of the house, 822; and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah," 
Nehemiah11:13 and his relatives, heads of fathers’ households, 242; and Amashsai the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer," 
Nehemiah11:14 and their relatives, mighty men of valor, 128. And their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of Haggedolim." 
Nehemiah11:15 Now from the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni;" 
Nehemiah11:16 and Shabbethai and Jozabad, from the chiefs of the Levites, who were over the outside work of the house of God;" 
Nehemiah11:17 and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, who was the chief in beginning the thanksgiving in prayer, and Bakbukiah, the second among his relatives; and Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun." 
Nehemiah11:18 All the Levites in the holy city were 284. 
Nehemiah11:19 Now the gatekeepers, Akkub, Talmon, and their relatives who kept watch at the gates, were 172." 
Nehemiah11:20 The rest of Israel, of the priests and of the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, each on his own inheritance." 
Nehemiah11:21 But the temple servants were living in Ophel, and Ziha and Gishpa were over the temple servants." 
Nehemiah11:22 Now the overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica, from the sons of Asaph, who were the singers over the work of the house of God." 
Nehemiah11:23 For there was a commandment from the king concerning them and a firm regulation for the song leaders day by day. 
Nehemiah11:24 Pethahiah the son of Meshezabel, of the sons of Zerah the son of Judah, was the king’s representative in all matters concerning the people." 
Nehemiah11:25 Now as for the villages with their fields, some of the sons of Judah lived in Kiriath-arba and its towns, in Dibon and its towns, and in Jekabzeel and its villages," 
Nehemiah11:26 and in Jeshua, in Moladah and Beth-pelet," 
Nehemiah11:27 and in Hazar-shual, in Beersheba and its towns," 
Nehemiah11:28 and in Ziklag, in Meconah and in its towns," 
Nehemiah11:29 and in En-rimmon, in Zorah and in Jarmuth," 
Nehemiah11:30 Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and its fields, Azekah and its towns. So they encamped from Beersheba as far as the valley of Hinnom." 
Nehemiah11:31 The sons of Benjamin also lived from Geba onward, at Michmash and Aija, at Bethel and its towns," 
Nehemiah11:32 at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah," 
Nehemiah11:33 Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim," 
Nehemiah11:34 Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat," 
Nehemiah11:35 Lod and Ono, the valley of craftsmen." 
Nehemiah11:36 From the Levites, some divisions in Judah belonged to Benjamin." 
Nehemiah12:1 Now these are the priests and the Levites who came up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:1 Now these are the priests and the Levites who came up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:1 Now these are the priests and the Levites who came up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush," 
Nehemiah12:3 Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth," 
Nehemiah12:4 Iddo, Ginnethoi, Abijah," 
Nehemiah12:5 Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah," 
Nehemiah12:6 Shemaiah and Joiarib, Jedaiah," 
Nehemiah12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, and Jedaiah. These were the heads of the priests and their relatives in the days of Jeshua." 
Nehemiah12:8 The Levites were Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah who was over of the songs of thanksgiving, he and his brothers." 
Nehemiah12:9 Also Bakbukiah and Unni, their brothers, stood opposite them in keeping their responsibilities." 
Nehemiah12:10 Jeshua became the father of Joiakim, and Joiakim became the father of Eliashib, and Eliashib became the father of Joiada," 
Nehemiah12:11 and Joiada became the father of Jonathan, and Jonathan became the father of Jaddua." 
Nehemiah12:12 Now in the days of Joiakim, the priests, the heads of fathers’ households were: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;" 
Nehemiah12:12 Now in the days of Joiakim, the priests, the heads of fathers’ households were: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;" 
Nehemiah12:13 of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;" 
Nehemiah12:13 of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;" 
Nehemiah12:14 of Malluchi, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph;" 
Nehemiah12:15 of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;" 
Nehemiah12:16 of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;" 
Nehemiah12:16 of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;" 
Nehemiah12:17 of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai;" 
Nehemiah12:18 of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;" 
Nehemiah12:19 of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;" 
Nehemiah12:20 of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;" 
Nehemiah12:21 of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel." 
Nehemiah12:22 As for the Levites, in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan and Jaddua, the heads of fathers’ households were written down; the priests were also in the reign of Darius the Persian." 
Nehemiah12:23 The sons of Levi, the heads of fathers’ households, were written down in the Book of the Chronicles up to the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib." 
Nehemiah12:24 The heads of the Levites were Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with their brothers opposite them, to praise and give thanks, by the commandment of David the man of God, watch by watch." 
Nehemiah12:25 Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were gatekeepers keeping watch at the storerooms of the gates." 
Nehemiah12:25 Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were gatekeepers keeping watch at the storerooms of the gates." 
Nehemiah12:26 These served in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor and of Ezra the priest and scribe." 
Nehemiah12:26 These served in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor and of Ezra the priest and scribe." 
Nehemiah12:27 Now at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought out the Levites from all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem so that they might celebrate the dedication with gladness, with hymns of thanksgiving and with songs to the accompaniment of cymbals, harps and lyres." 
Nehemiah12:28 So the sons of the singers were gathered from the district around Jerusalem and from the villages of the Netophathites," 
Nehemiah12:29 from Beth-gilgal and from their fields in Geba and Azmaveth, for the singers had built themselves villages around Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah12:30 The priests and the Levites cleansed themselves; they also cleansed the people, the gates, and the wall." 
Nehemiah12:31 Then I had the leaders of Judah come up on top of the wall, and I had two great choirs of thanksgiving stand, the first proceeding to the right on top of the wall toward the Dung Gate." 
Nehemiah12:32 Hoshaiah and half of the leaders of Judah followed them," 
Nehemiah12:33 with Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam," 
Nehemiah12:33 with Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam," 
Nehemiah12:34 Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah12:34 Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah12:35 and some of the sons of the priests with trumpets; and Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph," 
Nehemiah12:35 and some of the sons of the priests with trumpets; and Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph," 
Nehemiah12:36 and his relatives, Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah, and Hanani, with the musical instruments of David the man of God. And Ezra the scribe went before them." 
Nehemiah12:36 and his relatives, Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah, and Hanani, with the musical instruments of David the man of God. And Ezra the scribe went before them." 
Nehemiah12:37 At the Spring Gate they went directly up the steps of the city of David by the stairway of the wall above the house of David to the Water Gate on the east. 
Nehemiah12:38 The second choir proceeded to the left, while I followed them with half of the people on the wall, above the Tower of Furnaces, to the Broad Wall," 
Nehemiah12:39 and above the Gate of Ephraim, by the Old Gate, by the Fish Gate, the Tower of Hananel, and the Tower of the Hundred, as far as the Sheep Gate; and they stood at the Gate of the Guard." 
Nehemiah12:40 Then the two choirs took their stand in the house of God. So did I and half of the officials with me; 
Nehemiah12:41 and the priests: Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah and Hananiah, with the trumpets;" 
Nehemiah12:41 and the priests: Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah and Hananiah, with the trumpets;" 
Nehemiah12:42 and Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malchijah, Elam, and Ezer. And the singers made their voices heard, with Jezrahiah their overseer," 
Nehemiah12:43 and on that day they offered great sacrifices and were glad because God had given them great gladness, even the women and children were glad, so that the gladness of Jerusalem was heard from afar." 
Nehemiah12:44 On that day men were also appointed over the chambers for the stores, the contributions, the first fruits, and the tithes, to gather into them from the fields of the cities the portions required by the law for the priests and Levites; for Judah was glad over the priests and Levites who stood to minister." 
Nehemiah12:45 And they kept their responsibility given by their God and the responsibility of cleansing, together with the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the commandment of David and his son Solomon." 
Nehemiah12:46 For in the days of David and Asaph, in ancient times, there were chiefs of the singers, songs of praise and hymns of thanksgiving to God." 
Nehemiah12:47 So all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel and Nehemiah were giving the portions due the singers and the gatekeepers as each day required, and set apart the holy portion for the Levites, and the Levites set apart the holy portion for the sons of Aaron." 
Nehemiah13:1 On that day they read from the book of Moses in the hearing of the people; and there was found written in it that no Ammonite or Moabite should ever enter the assembly of God," 
Nehemiah13:2 because they did not meet the sons of Israel with bread and water, but hired Balaam against them to curse them. However, our God turned the curse into a blessing." 
Nehemiah13:3 So when they heard the law, they separated all foreigners from Israel." 
Nehemiah13:4 Now prior to this, Eliashib the priest, who was put in charge over the chambers of the house of our God, being related to Tobiah," 
Nehemiah13:5 had prepared a large room for him, where formerly they put the grain offerings, the frankincense, the utensils, and the tithes of grain, also new wine and oil commanded for the Levites, the singers, and the gatekeepers, as well as the contributions for the priests." 
Nehemiah13:6 But during all this time I was not in Jerusalem, for in the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon I had gone to the king. After some time, however, I asked leave from the king," 
Nehemiah13:7 and I came to Jerusalem and discerned the evil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah, by preparing a chamber for him in the courts of the house of God." 
Nehemiah13:8 It was very evil to me, so I threw all of Tobiah’s household goods out of the chamber." 
Nehemiah13:9 Then I said the word, and they cleansed the chambers; and I returned there the utensils of the house of God with the grain offerings and the frankincense." 
Nehemiah13:10 I also came to know that the portions of the Levites had not been given them, so the Levites and the singers who did the work had fled, each to his own field." 
Nehemiah13:11 So I contended against the officials and said, “Why is the house of God forsaken?” Then I gathered them together and had them stand in their posts." 
Nehemiah13:12 All Judah then brought the tithe of the grain, new wine, and oil into the storehouses." 
Nehemiah13:13 In charge of the storehouses I appointed Shelemiah the priest, Zadok the scribe, and Pedaiah of the Levites, and in addition to them was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah; for they were counted as faithful, and it was their task to apportion everything to their relatives." 
Nehemiah13:14 Remember me for this, O my God, and do not blot out my lovingkindnesses which I have shown for the house of my God and its responsibilities." 
Nehemiah13:15 In those days I saw in Judah some who were treading wine presses on the sabbath, and bringing in sacks of grain and loading them on donkeys, as well as wine, grapes, figs and all kinds of loads, and they brought them into Jerusalem on the sabbath day. So I testified against them on the day they sold food." 
Nehemiah13:16 Also men of Tyre were living there who brought in fish and all kinds of merchandise, and sold them to the sons of Judah on the sabbath, even in Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah13:17 Then I contended with the nobles of Judah and said to them, “What is this evil thing you are doing, even profaning the sabbath day?" 
Nehemiah13:18 Did not your fathers do the same, so our God brought on us and on this city all this calamity? Yet you are adding to His anger on Israel by profaning the sabbath.”" 
Nehemiah13:19 Now it happened that just as it grew dark at the gates of Jerusalem before the sabbath, I said the word, and the doors were shut. Then I said that they should not open them until after the sabbath. Then I had some of my young men stand at the gates so that no load would enter on the sabbath day." 
Nehemiah13:20 Once or twice the traders and merchants of every kind of merchandise spent the night outside Jerusalem. 
Nehemiah13:21 Then I warned them and said to them, “Why do you spend the night in front of the wall? If you do so again, I will send forth my hand against you.” From that time on they did not come on the sabbath." 
Nehemiah13:22 And I said to the Levites that they should cleanse themselves and come as gatekeepers to keep the sabbath day holy. For this also remember me, O my God, and have compassion on me according to the greatness of Your lovingkindness." 
Nehemiah13:23 In those days I also saw that the Jews had married women from Ashdod, Ammon, and Moab." 
Nehemiah13:24 As for their children, half spoke in the language of Ashdod, and none of them was able to speak the language of Judah, but only the tongue of his own people." 
Nehemiah13:25 So I contended with them and cursed them and struck some of them and pulled out their hair and made them swear by God, “You shall not give your daughters to their sons, nor take up their daughters for your sons or for yourselves." 
Nehemiah13:26 Did not Solomon king of Israel sin regarding these things? Yet among the many nations there was no king like him, and he was loved by his God, and God gave him to be king over all Israel; nevertheless the foreign women caused even him to sin." 
Nehemiah13:27 Do we then hear about you that you have done all this great evil by acting unfaithfully against our God by marrying foreign women?” 
Nehemiah13:28 And even one of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was a son-in-law of Sanballat the Horonite, so I made him flee away from me." 
Nehemiah13:29 Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the priesthood and the covenant of the priesthood and the Levites." 
Nehemiah13:30 Thus I cleansed them from everything foreign and ensured that the responsibilities stood for the priests and the Levites, each in his work," 
Nehemiah13:31 and I arranged for the supply of wood at fixed times and for the first fruits. Remember me, O my God, for good." 
Esther1:1 Now it happened in the days of Ahasuerus, the Ahasuerus who reigned from India to Ethiopia over 127 provinces," 
Esther1:2 in those days as King Ahasuerus sat on his royal throne which was at the citadel in Susa," 
Esther1:3 in the third year of his reign, he held a feast for all his princes and servants, the military officers of Persia and Media, the nobles and the princes of his provinces being in his presence," 
Esther1:4 while he displayed the riches of his royal glory and the splendor of his great majesty for many days, 180 days." 
Esther1:5 And when these days were fulfilled, the king held a feast lasting seven days for all the people who were present at the citadel in Susa, from the greatest to the least, in the court of the garden of the king’s palace." 
Esther1:6 There were hangings of fine white and blue linen held by cords of fine purple linen on silver rings and marble pillars, and couches of gold and silver on a mosaic pavement of porphyry, marble, mother-of-pearl, and precious stones." 
Esther1:7 And drinks were served in golden vessels of various kinds, and the royal wine was plentiful according to the king’s hand." 
Esther1:8 And the drinking was done according to the law; there was no compulsion, for so the king had established it for each official of his household—that he should do according to what pleased each person." 
Esther1:9 Queen Vashti also held a feast for the women in the royal house which belonged to King Ahasuerus. 
Esther1:10 On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he said for Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, Abagtha, Zethar, and Carkas, the seven eunuchs who attended to the presence of King Ahasuerus," 
Esther1:11 to bring Queen Vashti before the king with her royal crown in order to display her beauty to the people and the princes, for she was beautiful in appearance." 
Esther1:12 But Queen Vashti refused to come at the word of the king which was delivered by the hand of the eunuchs. Then the king became exceedingly furious, and his wrath burned within him." 
Esther1:13 Then the king said to the wise men who knew the times—for it was the custom of the king thus to speak before all who knew law and justice 
Esther1:14 and were close to him: Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media who had access to the king’s presence and sat in the first place in the kingdom—" 
Esther1:15 “According to law, what is to be done with Queen Vashti, because she did not do the declaration of King Ahasuerus delivered by the hand of the eunuchs?”" 
Esther1:16 Then in the presence of the king and the princes, Memucan said, “Queen Vashti has committed iniquity against not only the king but also against all the princes and all the peoples who are in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus." 
Esther1:17 For the word about the queen will get out to all the women causing them to despise their husbands in their eyes by saying, ‘King Ahasuerus said for Queen Vashti to be brought in to his presence, but she did not come.’" 
Esther1:18 This day the ladies of Persia and Media who have heard of the word about the queen will speak in the same way to all the king’s princes, and there will be plenty of spite and indignation." 
Esther1:19 If it seems good to the king, let a royal word go forth from him, and let it be written in the laws of Persia and Media so that it cannot be repealed, that Vashti may no longer come into the presence of King Ahasuerus, and let the king give her royal position to another who is better than she." 
Esther1:20 And the king’s sentence, which he will make, will be heard throughout all his kingdom, for it is vast, and all women will give respect to their husbands, great and small.”" 
Esther1:21 And this word was good in the eyes of the king and the princes, and the king did according to the word of Memucan." 
Esther1:22 So he sent letters to all the king’s provinces, to each province according to its script and to every people according to their tongue, that every man should be the ruler in his own house and the one who speaks in the tongue of his own people." 
Esther2:1 After these things when the wrath of King Ahasuerus had subsided, he remembered Vashti and what she had done and what had been decided against her." 
Esther2:2 Then the young men of the king, who attended to him, said, “Let young virgins, beautiful in appearance, be sought for the king." 
Esther2:3 And let the king appoint overseers in all the provinces of his kingdom that they may gather every young virgin, beautiful in appearance, to the citadel of Susa, to the harem, into the hand of Hegai, the king’s eunuch, who keeps charge of the women; and let their cosmetics be given to them." 
Esther2:4 Then let the young lady who is good in the eyes of the king be queen in place of Vashti.” And the word was good in the eyes of the king, and he did so." 
Esther2:5 Now there was at the citadel in Susa a Jew. And his name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjamite," 
Esther2:6 who had been taken away into exile from Jerusalem with the exiles who had been taken away into exile with Jeconiah king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had taken away into exile." 
Esther2:7 And he was bringing up Hadassah, that is Esther, his uncle’s daughter, for she had no father or mother. Now the young lady was beautiful in form and beautiful in appearance, and when her father and her mother died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter." 
Esther2:8 Now it happened that when the word and law of the king were heard and many young ladies were gathered to the citadel of Susa into the hand of Hegai, that Esther was taken to the king’s house into the hand of Hegai, who kept charge of the women." 
Esther2:9 And the young lady was good in his eyes, and she advanced in lovingkindness before him. So he hurried to give her cosmetics and portions of food to her, and to give to her seven choice young women from the king’s house. And he transferred her and her young women to the best place in the harem." 
Esther2:10 Esther did not tell anyone about her people or her kinsmen, for Mordecai had commanded her that she should not tell anyone about them." 
Esther2:11 And every day Mordecai walked back and forth in front of the court of the harem to know the well-being of Esther and how she fared. 
Esther2:12 Now when it reached the turn of each young lady to go in to King Ahasuerus, after the end of her twelve months under the regulations for the women—for the days of their cosmetic treatment were fulfilled as follows: six months with oil of myrrh and six months with spices and the cosmetics for women—" 
Esther2:13 then the young lady would go in to the king in this way: anything that she said she desired was given to her to come with her from the harem to the king’s house. 
Esther2:14 In the evening she would go in, and in the morning she would return to the second harem, to the hand of Shaashgaz, the king’s eunuch who kept charge of the concubines. She would not again go in to the king unless the king delighted in her and she was summoned by name." 
Esther2:15 Now when it reached the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abihail the uncle of Mordecai who had taken her as his daughter, to go in to the king, she did not seek anything except what Hegai, the king’s eunuch who kept charge of the women, said. And Esther advanced in favor in the eyes of all who saw her." 
Esther2:16 So Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus to his royal house in the tenth month which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign." 
Esther2:17 And the king loved Esther more than all the women, and she advanced in favor and lovingkindness before him more than all the virgins, so that he set the royal crown on her head and made her queen in place of Vashti." 
Esther2:18 Then the king held a great feast, Esther’s feast, for all his princes and his servants; he also held a remission of taxes for the provinces and gave gifts according to the king’s hand." 
Esther2:19 And when the virgins were gathered together the second time, then Mordecai was sitting at the king’s gate." 
Esther2:20 Esther had not yet told anyone about her kinsmen or her people, just as Mordecai had commanded her; indeed Esther was doing what Mordecai declared that she do, just as she had done when she was being brought up by him." 
Esther2:21 In those days, while Mordecai was sitting at the king’s gate, Bigthan and Teresh, two of the king’s eunuchs from those who were doorkeepers, became furious and sought to send forth their hand against King Ahasuerus." 
Esther2:22 But the matter became known to Mordecai, and he told it to Queen Esther, and Esther said it to the king in Mordecai’s name." 
Esther2:23 Then the matter was sought out and found to be true, so they were both hanged on a gallows; and it was written in the book of the chronicles in the king’s presence." 
Esther3:1 After these things, King Ahasuerus magnified Haman, the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and advanced him and set his seat above all the princes who were with him." 
Esther3:2 And all the king’s servants who were at the king’s gate were bowing down and prostrating themselves before Haman, for so the king had commanded concerning him. But Mordecai would not bow down or prostrate himself." 
Esther3:3 So the king’s servants who were at the king’s gate said to Mordecai, “Why do you trespass against the king’s command?”" 
Esther3:4 Now it happened when they had spoken daily to him and he would not listen to them, that they told Haman to see whether Mordecai’s words would stand; for he had told them that he was a Jew." 
Esther3:5 Then Haman saw that Mordecai was not bowing down or prostrating himself before him. So Haman was filled with wrath. 
Esther3:6 But he despised in his eyes to send forth his hand against Mordecai alone, for they had told him who the people of Mordecai were; therefore Haman sought to destroy all the Jews, the people of Mordecai, who were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus." 
Esther3:7 In the first month, which is the month Nisan, in the twelfth year of King Ahasuerus, Pur, that is the lot, was cast before Haman from day to day and from month to month, until the twelfth month, that is the month Adar." 
Esther3:8 Then Haman said to King Ahasuerus, “There is a certain people scattered and separated among the peoples in all the provinces of your kingdom; their laws are different from those of all other people, and they do not do the king’s laws, so it is not worth it for the king to let them remain." 
Esther3:9 If it seems good to the king, let it be written down that they should perish, and I will pay 10,000 talents of silver into the hands of those who do this work, to bring into the king’s treasuries.”" 
Esther3:10 Then the king removed his signet ring from his hand and gave it to Haman, the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the adversary of the Jews." 
Esther3:11 And the king said to Haman, “The silver is yours, and the people also, to do with them according to what is good in your eyes.”" 
Esther3:12 Then the king’s scribes were summoned on the thirteenth day of the first month, and it was written just as Haman commanded to the king’s satraps, to the governors who were over each province, and to the princes of each people, each province according to its script, each people according to its tongue, being written in the name of King Ahasuerus and sealed with the king’s signet ring." 
Esther3:13 And letters were sent by the hand of couriers to all the king’s provinces to destroy, to kill, and to cause all the Jews to perish, both young and old, little ones and women, in one day, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to plunder their spoil." 
Esther3:14 A copy of that which was written down to be given as law in every province was revealed to all the peoples so that they should be ready for this day. 
Esther3:15 The couriers went out, hastened by the word of the king. And the law was given at the citadel in Susa. Now the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the city of Susa was in confusion." 
Esther4:1 Now Mordecai came to know of all that had been done. And he tore his clothes, put on sackcloth and ashes, and went out into the midst of the city and cried out loudly and bitterly." 
Esther4:2 And he went as far as the king’s gate, for no one was to enter the king’s gate clothed in sackcloth." 
Esther4:3 Now in each and every province where the word and law of the king reached, there was great mourning among the Jews, with fasting, weeping, and wailing; and many made their bed in sackcloth and ashes." 
Esther4:4 Then Esther’s young women and her eunuchs came and told her, and the queen writhed in great anguish. And she sent garments to clothe Mordecai and to remove his sackcloth from upon him, but he did not accept them." 
Esther4:5 Then Esther summoned Hathach from the king’s eunuchs, whom the king had appointed to attend her, and commanded him to go to Mordecai to know what this was and why it was." 
Esther4:6 So Hathach went out to Mordecai to the city square in front of the king’s gate. 
Esther4:7 And Mordecai told him all that had happened to him, and the exact amount of silver that Haman had promised to pay to the king’s treasuries to cause the Jews to perish." 
Esther4:8 He also gave him a copy of the written law which had been given in Susa for their destruction, in order to show Esther and to tell her and to command her to go in to the king to implore his favor and to seek him out for her people." 
Esther4:9 Then Hathach came back and told Mordecai’s words to Esther. 
Esther4:10 Then Esther spoke to Hathach and commanded him to reply to Mordecai: 
Esther4:11 “All the king’s servants and the people of the king’s provinces know that for any man or woman who comes to the king to the inner court who is not summoned, he has but one law, that he be put to death, unless the king holds out to him the golden scepter so that he may live. And I have not been summoned to come to the king for these thirty days.”" 
Esther4:12 So they told Esther’s words to Mordecai. 
Esther4:13 Then Mordecai said for them to respond to Esther, “Do not imagine that you in the king’s house can escape any more than all the Jews." 
Esther4:14 For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from another place, and you and your father’s house will perish. And who knows whether you have not reached royalty for such a time as this?”" 
Esther4:15 Then Esther said for them to respond to Mordecai," 
Esther4:16 “Go, gather all the Jews who are found in Susa, and fast for me; do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my young women also will fast in the same way. And thus I will go in to the king, which is not according to the law; and if I perish, I perish.”" 
Esther4:17 So Mordecai went away and did just as Esther had commanded him. 
Esther5:1 Now it happened on the third day, that Esther put on her royal robes and stood in the inner court of the king’s house in front of the king’s rooms, and the king was sitting on his royal throne in the throne room, opposite the entrance to his house." 
Esther5:2 Now it happened that when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, she advanced in favor in his eyes; and the king extended to Esther the golden scepter which was in his hand. So Esther came near and reached out and touched the top of the scepter." 
Esther5:3 Then the king said to her, “What is troubling you, Queen Esther? And what is your request? Even to half of the kingdom it shall be given to you.”" 
Esther5:4 And Esther said, “If it seems good to the king, may the king and Haman come this day to the feast that I have prepared for him.”" 
Esther5:5 Then the king said, “Bring Haman quickly that we may do the word of Esther.” So the king and Haman came to the feast which Esther had prepared." 
Esther5:6 Then, as they drank their wine at the feast, the king said to Esther, “What is your petition? For it shall be given to you. And what is your request? Even to half of the kingdom it shall be done.”" 
Esther5:7 So Esther answered and said, “My petition and my request is:" 
Esther5:8 if I have found favor in the eyes of the king, and if it seems good to the king to give heed to my petition and to do my request, may the king and Haman come to the feast which I will prepare for them, and tomorrow I will do according to the word of the king.”" 
Esther5:9 Then Haman went out that day glad and merry of heart; but when Haman saw Mordecai in the king’s gate and that he did not stand up or tremble before him, Haman was filled with wrath against Mordecai." 
Esther5:10 But Haman controlled himself, went to his house, and sent for and brought his friends and his wife Zeresh." 
Esther5:11 Then Haman recounted to them the glory of his riches and the number of his sons and every instance where the king had magnified him and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the king. 
Esther5:12 Haman also said, “Even Esther the queen let no one but me come with the king to the feast which she had prepared; and tomorrow also I am called to come to her with the king." 
Esther5:13 Yet all of this is worth nothing to me every time I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king’s gate.” 
Esther5:14 Then Zeresh his wife and all his friends said to him, “Have a gallows fifty cubits high made and in the morning say to the king that Mordecai should be hanged on it; then go gladly with the king to the feast.” And the word was good to Haman, so he had the gallows made." 
Esther6:1 During that night, sleep had fled from the king, so he said for them to bring the book of memoranda, the chronicles, and they were read before the king." 
Esther6:2 And it was found written what Mordecai had told concerning Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king’s eunuchs from those who were doorkeepers, that they had sought to send forth their hand against King Ahasuerus." 
Esther6:3 And the king said, “What honor or greatness has been done to Mordecai for this?” Then the king’s young men who attended him said, “Nothing has been done for him.”" 
Esther6:4 So the king said, “Who is in the court?” Now Haman had entered the outer court of the king’s house in order to speak to the king about hanging Mordecai on the gallows which he had set up for him." 
Esther6:5 And the king’s young men said to him, “Behold, Haman is standing in the court.” And the king said, “Let him come in.”" 
Esther6:6 So Haman came in, and the king said to him, “What is to be done for the man whom the king delights to honor?” And Haman said in his heart, “Whom would the king delight to honor more than me?”" 
Esther6:7 Then Haman said to the king, “For the man whom the king delights to honor," 
Esther6:8 let them bring a royal robe which the king clothes himself in, and the horse on which the king has ridden, and on whose head a royal crown has been placed;" 
Esther6:9 and let the robe and the horse be given over to the hand of one of the king’s most noble princes, and let them clothe the man whom the king delights to honor and lead him on horseback through the city square and call out before him, ‘Thus it shall be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.’”" 
Esther6:10 Then the king said to Haman, “Take quickly the robes and the horse as you have said, and do so for Mordecai the Jew, who is sitting at the king’s gate; do not fall short in anything of all that you have spoken.”" 
Esther6:11 So Haman took the robe and the horse and clothed Mordecai and led him on horseback through the city square and called out before him, “Thus it shall be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.”" 
Esther6:12 Then Mordecai returned to the king’s gate. But Haman hastened home, mourning, with his head covered." 
Esther6:13 And Haman recounted to Zeresh his wife and all his friends everything that had happened to him. Then his wise men and Zeresh his wife said to him, “If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of the seed of the Jews, you will not overcome him, but will surely fall before him.”" 
Esther6:14 While they were still speaking with him, the king’s eunuchs reached Haman’s home and hastily brought Haman to the feast which Esther had prepared." 
Esther7:1 Then the king and Haman came to drink wine with Esther the queen. 
Esther7:2 And the king said to Esther on the second day also as they drank their wine at the feast, “What is your petition, Queen Esther? It shall be given you. And what is your request? Even to half of the kingdom it shall be done.”" 
Esther7:3 Then Queen Esther answered and said, “If I have found favor in your eyes, O king, and if it seems good to the king, let my life be given to me as my petition, and my people as my request;" 
Esther7:4 for we have been sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be killed, and to be caused to perish. Now if we had only been sold as slaves, men and women, I would have remained silent, for the adversity would not be worth the annoyance to the king.”" 
Esther7:5 Then King Ahasuerus said—he said to Esther the Queen, “Who is this one, and where is this one, who fills his heart to do thus?”" 
Esther7:6 So Esther said, “An adversary and an enemy is this evil Haman!” Then Haman became terrified before the king and queen." 
Esther7:7 And the king arose in his wrath from drinking wine and went into the garden of his palace; but Haman stayed to seek for his life from Queen Esther, for he saw that calamity had been determined against him by the king." 
Esther7:8 Now the king returned from the garden of his palace into the place where they were drinking wine. And Haman was falling on the couch where Esther was. So the king said, “Will he even assault the queen with me in the house?” As the word went out of the king’s mouth, they covered Haman’s face." 
Esther7:9 Then Harbonah, one of the eunuchs who were before the king, said, “Behold indeed, the gallows—which Haman made for Mordecai who spoke good on behalf of the king—are standing at Haman’s house fifty cubits high!” And the king said, “Hang him on it.”" 
Esther7:10 So they hanged Haman on the gallows which he had set up for Mordecai, and the king’s wrath subsided." 
Esther8:1 On that day King Ahasuerus gave the house of Haman, the adversary of the Jews, to Queen Esther; and Mordecai came before the king, for Esther had told what he was to her." 
Esther8:2 And the king removed his signet ring, which he had taken away from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman." 
Esther8:3 Then Esther spoke again to the king, fell at his feet, wept, and implored him to repeal the evil scheme of Haman the Agagite and his scheme which he had devised against the Jews." 
Esther8:4 And the king extended the golden scepter to Esther. So Esther arose and stood before the king. 
Esther8:5 Then she said, “If it seems good to the king, and if I have found favor before him and the matter seems proper to the king and I am good in his eyes, let it be written to turn back the letters devised by Haman, the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he wrote to cause the Jews who are in all the king’s provinces to perish." 
Esther8:6 For how can I endure to see the calamity which will befall my people, and how can I endure to see the perishing of my kinsmen?”" 
Esther8:7 So King Ahasuerus said to Queen Esther and to Mordecai the Jew, “Behold, I have given the house of Haman to Esther, and him they have hanged on the gallows because he had sent forth his hand against the Jews." 
Esther8:8 Now you write to the Jews, according to what is good in your eyes, in the king’s name, and seal it with the king’s signet ring; for a written decree which is written in the name of the king and sealed with the king’s signet ring may not be turned back.”" 
Esther8:9 So the king’s scribes were called at that time in the third month (that is, the month Sivan), on the twenty-third day; and it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded to the Jews, the satraps, the governors, and the princes of the provinces which extended from India to Ethiopia, 127 provinces, to every province according to its script, and to every people according to their tongue as well as to the Jews according to their script and their tongue." 
Esther8:10 And he wrote in the name of King Ahasuerus and sealed it with the king’s signet ring and sent letters by the hand of couriers on horses, riding on steeds sired by the royal stud." 
Esther8:11 In them the king gave the Jews who were in each and every city the right to assemble and to make a stand for their lives, to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish the entire military force of any people or province which would act as their adversaries, including little ones and women, and to plunder their spoil," 
Esther8:12 on one day in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month (that is, the month Adar)." 
Esther8:13 A copy of that which was written down to be given as law in each and every province was revealed to all the peoples, so that the Jews would be ready for this day to avenge themselves on their enemies." 
Esther8:14 The couriers, hurried and hastened by the king’s word, went out, riding on the royal steeds; and the law was given out at the citadel in Susa." 
Esther8:15 Then Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal robes of blue and fine white, with a large crown of gold and a garment of fine linen and purple; and the city of Susa cried aloud and was glad." 
Esther8:16 For the Jews there was light and gladness and joy and honor. 
Esther8:17 And in each and every province and in each and every city, wherever the king’s word and his law reached, there was gladness and joy for the Jews, a feast and a holiday. And many among the peoples of the land became Jews, for the dread of the Jews had fallen on them." 
Esther9:1 Now in the twelfth month (that is, the month Adar), on the thirteenth day when the king’s word and law had reached the point for them to be done, on the day when the enemies of the Jews hoped to gain power over them, it was turned around so that the Jews themselves gained power over those who hated them." 
Esther9:2 The Jews assembled in their cities throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus to send forth their hand against those who sought their calamity; and no one could stand before them, for the dread of them had fallen on all the peoples." 
Esther9:3 Even all the princes of the provinces, the satraps, the governors, and those who were doing the king’s work advanced the Jews, because the dread of Mordecai had fallen on them." 
Esther9:4 Indeed, Mordecai was great in the king’s house, and the report about him went throughout all the provinces; for the man Mordecai became greater and greater." 
Esther9:5 Thus the Jews struck all their enemies with the sword, killing and causing them to perish; and they did what they pleased to those who hated them." 
Esther9:6 And at the citadel in Susa the Jews killed and caused to perish 500 men," 
Esther9:7 and Parshandatha, Dalphon, Aspatha," 
Esther9:8 Poratha, Adalia, Aridatha," 
Esther9:9 Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai, and Vaizatha," 
Esther9:10 the 10 sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Jews’ adversary; but they did not send forth their hand for the plunder." 
Esther9:11 On that day the number of those who were killed at the citadel in Susa came to the king. 
Esther9:12 So the king said to Queen Esther, “The Jews have killed and caused to perish 500 men and the 10 sons of Haman at the citadel in Susa. Now in the rest of the king’s provinces, what have they done? So what is your petition? It shall even be given to you. And what is your further request? It shall also be done.”" 
Esther9:13 Then Esther said, “If it is good to the king, let tomorrow also be given to the Jews who are in Susa to do according to the law for today; and let Haman’s 10 sons be hanged on the gallows.”" 
Esther9:14 So the king said that it should be done so; and a law was given in Susa, and Haman’s 10 sons were hanged." 
Esther9:15 And the Jews who were in Susa assembled also on the fourteenth day of the month Adar and killed 300 men in Susa, but they did not send forth their hand for the plunder." 
Esther9:16 Now the rest of the Jews who were in the king’s provinces assembled, to make a stand for their lives and obtain rest for themselves from their enemies, and to kill 75,000 of those who hated them; but they did not send forth their hand for the plunder." 
Esther9:17 This was done on the thirteenth day of the month Adar, and on the fourteenth day they rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness." 
Esther9:18 But the Jews who were in Susa assembled on the thirteenth and the fourteenth of the same month, and they rested on the fifteenth day and made it a day of feasting and gladness." 
Esther9:19 Therefore the Jews of the rural areas, who live in the rural towns, make the fourteenth day of the month Adar a holiday for gladness and feasting and sending portions of food to one another." 
Esther9:20 Then Mordecai wrote down these events, and he sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, both near and far," 
Esther9:21 to establish among them to celebrate the fourteenth day of the month Adar, and the fifteenth day of the same month, annually," 
Esther9:22 because on those days the Jews obtained rest for themselves from their enemies, and it was a month which was turned around for them from sorrow into gladness and from mourning into a holiday; that they should make them days of feasting and gladness and sending portions of food to one another and gifts to the poor." 
Esther9:23 Thus the Jews fully accepted what they had started to do and what Mordecai had written to them. 
Esther9:24 For Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, the adversary of all the Jews, had devised against the Jews to cause them to perish and had cast Pur, that is the lot, to throw them into confusion and cause them to perish." 
Esther9:25 But when it came before the king, he said by letter that his evil scheme, which he had devised against the Jews, should return on his own head and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows." 
Esther9:26 Therefore they called these days Purim after the name of Pur. Therefore, because of the words in this letter, both what they had seen in this regard and what had reached them," 
Esther9:27 the Jews established and accepted a custom for themselves and for their seed and for all those who joined themselves to them, so that celebrating these two days according to what was written down and according to their fixed time from year to year would not pass away." 
Esther9:28 So these days were to be remembered and celebrated throughout every generation, every family, every province, and every city; thus these days of Purim were not to pass away from among the Jews, nor their memory come to an end from their seed." 
Esther9:29 Then Queen Esther, daughter of Abihail, with Mordecai the Jew, wrote with full authority to establish this second letter about Purim." 
Esther9:30 And he sent letters to all the Jews, to the 127 provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, namely, words of peace and truth," 
Esther9:31 to establish these days of Purim at their appointed times, just as Mordecai the Jew and Queen Esther had established for them, and just as they had established for themselves and for their seed with words concerning their times of fasting and their crying out." 
Esther9:32 And the declaration of Esther established these words concerning Purim, and it was written in the book." 
Esther10:1 Then King Ahasuerus set forced labor upon the land and the coastlands of the sea. 
Esther10:2 And the entire work of his authority and his might, and the full account of the greatness of Mordecai, whom the king had made so great, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia?" 
Esther10:3 For Mordecai the Jew was second only to King Ahasuerus and was great among the Jews and pleasing to his many fellow brothers, one who sought the good of his people and one who spoke for the peace of all his seed." 
Job1:1 There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job; and that man was blameless, upright, fearing God, and turning away from evil." 
Job1:2 Seven sons and three daughters were born to him. 
Job1:3 His possessions also were 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 pairs of oxen, 500 female donkeys, and very many servants; and that man was the greatest of all the sons of the east." 
Job1:4 His sons used to go and hold a feast in the house of each one on his day, and they would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them." 
Job1:5 Now it happened when the days of feasting had completed their cycle, that Job would send and set them apart as holy. And he would rise up early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all; for Job said, “Perhaps my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts.” Thus Job did continually." 
Job1:6 Now it was the day that the sons of God came to stand before Yahweh, and Satan also came among them." 
Job1:7 And Yahweh said to Satan, “From where do you come?” Then Satan answered Yahweh and said, “From roaming about on the earth and walking around on it.”" 
Job1:8 Then Yahweh said to Satan, “Have you set your heart upon My servant Job? For there is no one like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, fearing God and turning away from evil.”" 
Job1:9 And Satan answered Yahweh and said, “Does Job fear God without cause?" 
Job1:10 Have You not made a hedge about him and his house and all that he has, on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land." 
Job1:11 But send forth Your hand now and touch all that he has; he will surely curse You to Your face.” 
Job1:12 Then Yahweh said to Satan, “Behold, all that he has is in your hand, only do not send forth your hand toward him.” So Satan went out from the presence of Yahweh." 
Job1:13 Now it happened that on the day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their brother, the firstborn," 
Job1:14 a messenger came to Job and said, “The oxen were plowing and the donkeys feeding beside them," 
Job1:15 and the Sabeans fell upon them and took them. They also struck down the young men with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”" 
Job1:16 While this one was still speaking, another also came and said, “The fire of God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep and the young men and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”" 
Job1:17 While this one was still speaking, another also came and said, “The Chaldeans set up three companies and made a raid on the camels and took them and struck down the young men with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”" 
Job1:18 While this one was still speaking, another also came and said, “Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their brother, the firstborn," 
Job1:19 and behold, a great wind came from across the wilderness and touched the four corners of the house, and it fell on the young people, and they died, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”" 
Job1:20 Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head, and he fell to the ground and worshiped." 
Job1:21 And he said, “Naked I came from my mother’s womb, And naked I shall return there. Yahweh gave, and Yahweh has taken away. Blessed be the name of Yahweh.”" 
Job1:22 Through all this Job did not sin, nor did he give offense to God." 
Job2:1 Again it was the day that the sons of God came to stand before Yahweh, and Satan also came among them to stand himself before Yahweh." 
Job2:2 And Yahweh said to Satan, “Where do you come from?” Then Satan answered Yahweh and said, “From roaming about on the earth and walking around on it.”" 
Job2:3 And Yahweh said to Satan, “Have you set your heart upon My servant Job? For there is no one like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, fearing God and turning away from evil. And he still holds fast his integrity. So you incited Me against him to swallow him up in vain.”" 
Job2:4 Satan answered Yahweh and said, “Skin for skin! Yes, all that a man has he will give for his life." 
Job2:5 However, send forth Your hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh; he will curse You in Your face.”" 
Job2:6 So Yahweh said to Satan, “Behold, he is in your hand, only spare his life.”" 
Job2:7 Then Satan went out from the presence of Yahweh and struck Job with terrible boils from the sole of his foot to the top of his head. 
Job2:8 And he took a potsherd to scrape himself while he was sitting among the ashes. 
Job2:9 Then his wife said to him, “Do you still hold fast your integrity? Curse God and die!”" 
Job2:10 But he said to her, “You speak as one of the wickedly foolish women speaks. Shall we indeed accept good from God and not accept calamity?” In all this Job did not sin with his lips." 
Job2:11 Then Job’s three friends heard of all this calamity that had come upon him. So they came each one from his own place, Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite; and they made an appointment together to come to console him and comfort him." 
Job2:12 Then they lifted up their eyes at a distance and did not recognize him, and they lifted up their voices and wept. And each of them tore his robe, and they threw dust over their heads toward the sky." 
Job2:13 Then they sat down on the ground with him for seven days and seven nights with no one speaking a word to him, for they saw that his pain was very great." 
Job3:1 Afterward Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth. 
Job3:2 And Job answered and said," 
Job3:3 “Let the day perish on which I was to be born, And the night which said, ‘A man is conceived.’" 
Job3:4 May that day be darkness; Let not God seek it from above, Nor light shine on it." 
Job3:5 Let darkness and shadow of death redeem it; Let a cloud dwell upon it; Let the blackness of the day terrify it. 
Job3:6 As for that night, let thick darkness take it; Let it not rejoice among the days of the year; Let it not come into the number of the months." 
Job3:7 Behold, let that night be barren; Let no joyful shout enter it." 
Job3:8 Let those curse it who curse the day, Who are ready to rouse Leviathan." 
Job3:9 Let the stars of its twilight be darkened; Let it hope for light but have none, And let it not see the breaking dawn," 
Job3:10 Because it did not shut the opening of my mother’s body, Or hide trouble from my eyes." 
Job3:11 “Why did I not die from the womb, Come forth from the womb and breathe my last?" 
Job3:12 Why did the knees receive me, And why the breasts, that I should suck?" 
Job3:13 For now I would have lain down and been quiet; I would have slept then; it would have been rest to me," 
Job3:14 With kings and with counselors of the earth, Who rebuilt waste places for themselves," 
Job3:15 Or with princes who had gold, Who were filling their houses with silver." 
Job3:16 Or why was I not like a miscarriage hidden away, As infants that never saw light?" 
Job3:17 There the wicked cease from raging, And there the weary of strength are at rest." 
Job3:18 The prisoners are at ease together; They do not hear the voice of the taskmaster. 
Job3:19 The small and the great are there, And the slave is free from his master." 
Job3:20 “Why is light given to him who is troubled, And life to the bitter of soul," 
Job3:21 Who long for death, but there is none, And dig for it more than for hidden treasures," 
Job3:22 Who are glad with joy, And rejoice when they find the grave?" 
Job3:23 Why is light given to a man whose way is hidden, And whom God has hedged in?" 
Job3:24 For my groaning comes at the sight of my food, And my roaring pours out like water." 
Job3:25 For the dread that I dread comes upon me, And what I am afraid of befalls me." 
Job3:26 I am not complacent, nor am I quiet, And I am not at rest, and raging comes.”" 
Job4:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said," 
Job4:2 “If one tries a word with you, will you become weary? But who can hold back from speaking?" 
Job4:3 Behold, you have disciplined many, And you have strengthened limp hands." 
Job4:4 Your words have helped the stumbling to stand, And you have encouraged feeble knees." 
Job4:5 But now it has come to you, and you are impatient; It touches you, and you are dismayed." 
Job4:6 Is not your fear of God your confidence, And the integrity of your ways your hope?" 
Job4:7 “Remember now, who ever perished being innocent? Or where were the upright wiped out?" 
Job4:8 According to what I have seen, those who plow wickedness And those who sow trouble harvest it." 
Job4:9 By the breath of God they perish, And by the wind of His anger they come to an end." 
Job4:10 The roaring of the lion and the voice of the fierce lion, And the teeth of the young lions are broken." 
Job4:11 The lion perishes for lack of prey, And the whelps of the lioness are scattered." 
Job4:12 “Now a word was brought to me stealthily, And my ear received a whisper of it." 
Job4:13 Amid disquieting thoughts from the visions of the night, When deep sleep falls on men," 
Job4:14 Dread came upon me, and trembling, And made the multitude of my bones shake in dread." 
Job4:15 Then a spirit swept by my face; The hair of my flesh bristled up. 
Job4:16 It stood still, but I could not recognize its appearance; A form was before my eyes; There was silence, then I heard a voice:" 
Job4:17 ‘Can mankind be right before God? Can a man be pure before his Maker? 
Job4:18 He puts no trust even in His slaves; And against His angels He charges error. 
Job4:19 How much more those who dwell in houses of clay, Whose foundation is in the dust, Who are crushed before the moth!" 
Job4:20 Between morning and evening they are broken in pieces; Unobserved, they perish forever." 
Job4:21 Is not their tent‑cord pulled up within them? They die, yet without wisdom.’" 
Job5:1 “Call now, is there anyone who will answer you? And to which of the holy ones will you turn?" 
Job5:2 For vexation kills the ignorant fool, And jealousy puts to death the simple." 
Job5:3 I have seen the ignorant fool taking root, And I cursed his abode suddenly." 
Job5:4 His sons are far from salvation, They are even crushed in the gate, And there is no deliverer." 
Job5:5 His harvest the hungry devour And take it to a place of thorns, And the schemer pants after their wealth." 
Job5:6 For wickedness does not come out from the dust, Nor does trouble sprout from the ground," 
Job5:7 For man is born for trouble, As sparks fly upward." 
Job5:8 “But as for me, I would seek God, And I would set my cause before God," 
Job5:9 Who does great and unsearchable things, Wonders without number." 
Job5:10 He gives rain on the earth And sends water on the fields outside," 
Job5:11 So that He sets on high those who are lowly, And those who mourn are lifted to salvation." 
Job5:12 He frustrates the thoughts of the crafty, So that their hands cannot attain success of sound wisdom." 
Job5:13 He catches the wise by their own craftiness, And the counsel of the twisted is quickly thwarted." 
Job5:14 By day they meet with darkness And grope at noon as in the night. 
Job5:15 But He saves from the sword of their mouth, And the needy from the hand of the strong." 
Job5:16 So the poor has hope, And unrighteousness must shut its mouth." 
Job5:17 “Behold, how blessed is the man whom God reproves, So do not reject the discipline of the Almighty." 
Job5:18 For He inflicts pain and gives relief; He wounds, and His hands also heal." 
Job5:19 From six distresses He will deliver you, Even in seven evil will not touch you." 
Job5:20 In famine He will redeem you from death, And in war from hands with swords." 
Job5:21 You will be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, And you will not be afraid of devastation when it comes." 
Job5:22 You will laugh at devastation and starvation, And you will not be afraid of the beasts of the earth." 
Job5:23 For your covenant will be with the stones of the field, And the beasts of the field will be at peace with you." 
Job5:24 You will know that your tent is at peace, For you will visit your abode and fear no loss." 
Job5:25 You will know also that your seed will be many, And your offspring as the vegetation of the land." 
Job5:26 You will come to the grave in full vigor, Like the stacking of grain in its season." 
Job5:27 Behold this; we have investigated it, and so it is. Hear it, and know for yourself.”" 
Job6:1 Then Job answered and said," 
Job6:2 “Oh that my vexation were actually weighed And laid in the balances together with my destruction! 
Job6:3 For then it would be heavier than the sand of the seas; Therefore my words have been rash. 
Job6:4 For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, Their poison my spirit drinks; The horrors of God are arranged against me." 
Job6:5 Does the wild donkey bray over his grass, Or does the ox low over his fodder?" 
Job6:6 Can something tasteless be eaten without salt, Or is there any taste in the slime of a yolk?" 
Job6:7 My soul refuses to touch them; They are like loathsome food to me. 
Job6:8 “Oh that my request might come to pass, And that God would grant my hope!" 
Job6:9 Would that God were willing to crush me, That He would release His hand and cut me off!" 
Job6:10 But it is still my comfort, And I rejoice in unsparing pain, That I have not at all hidden away the words of the Holy One." 
Job6:11 What is my strength, that I should wait? And what is my end, that I should endure?" 
Job6:12 Is my strength the strength of stones, Or is my flesh bronze?" 
Job6:13 Is it that there is no help within me, And that the success of sound wisdom is driven from me?" 
Job6:14 “For the despairing man lovingkindness should be from his friend; But he forsakes the fear of the Almighty. 
Job6:15 My brothers have betrayed me like a wadi, Like the torrents of wadis which pass away," 
Job6:16 Which grow dark because of ice And upon which the snow hides itself. 
Job6:17 When they become waterless, they are silent; When it is hot, they vanish from their place." 
Job6:18 The paths of their course wind along; They go up into a formless place and perish. 
Job6:19 The caravans of Tema looked; The travelers of Sheba hoped for them. 
Job6:20 They were ashamed for they had trusted; They came there and were humiliated. 
Job6:21 Indeed, you have now become such; You see a terror and are afraid." 
Job6:22 Have I said, ‘Give me something,’ Or, ‘Offer a bribe for me from your wealth,’" 
Job6:23 Or, ‘Give me escape from the hand of the adversary,’ Or, ‘Redeem me from the hand of the ruthless men’?" 
Job6:24 “Instruct me, and I will be silent; And cause me to understand how I have erred." 
Job6:25 How painful are upright words! But what does your reproof prove? 
Job6:26 Do you think to reprove my words, Or think of the words of one in despair as wind?" 
Job6:27 You would even cast lots for the orphans And bargain over your friend. 
Job6:28 So now be willing to face me, And see if I lie to your face." 
Job6:29 Now turn from this, let there be no unrighteousness; Even turn from this, my righteousness is yet in it." 
Job6:30 Is there unrighteousness on my tongue? Cannot my palate discern destruction? 
Job7:1 “Is not man conscripted to labor on earth, And are not his days like the days of a hired man?" 
Job7:2 As a slave who pants for the shade, And as a hired man who eagerly hopes for his wages," 
Job7:3 So am I apportioned months of worthlessness, And nights of trouble are appointed me." 
Job7:4 If I lie down I say, ‘When shall I arise?’ But the twilight continues, And I am saturated with tossing until dawn." 
Job7:5 My flesh is clothed with worms and a crust of dirt; My skin scabs over and flows out again. 
Job7:6 My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle, And come to an end without hope." 
Job7:7 “Remember that my life is but wind; My eye will not again see good. 
Job7:8 The eye of him who sees me will behold me no longer; Your eyes will be on me, but I will not be." 
Job7:9 A cloud vanishes, and it is gone, So he who goes down to Sheol does not come up." 
Job7:10 He will not return again to his house, Nor will his place recognize him anymore." 
Job7:11 “Indeed I will not hold back my mouth; I will speak in the distress of my spirit; I will muse on the bitterness of my soul. 
Job7:12 Am I the sea or the sea monster, That You set a guard over me?" 
Job7:13 If I say, ‘My bed will comfort me; My couch will ease my bitter musing,’" 
Job7:14 Then You frighten me with dreams And terrify me by visions," 
Job7:15 So that my soul would choose suffocation, Death rather than my pains." 
Job7:16 I have rejected everything; I will not live forever. Leave me alone, for my days are but a breath." 
Job7:17 What is man that You magnify him, And that You set Your heart on him," 
Job7:18 That You examine him every morning And test him every moment? 
Job7:19 Will You never turn Your gaze away from me, Nor let me alone until I swallow my spit?" 
Job7:20 Have I sinned? What have I done to You, O watcher of men? Why have You set me as Your target, So that I am a burden to myself?" 
Job7:21 Why then do You not forgive my transgression And take away my iniquity? For now I will lie down in the dust; And You will seek me earnestly, but I will not be.”" 
Job8:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said," 
Job8:2 “How long will you say these things, And the words of your mouth be a mighty wind?" 
Job8:3 Does God pervert justice? Or does the Almighty pervert what is right? 
Job8:4 If your sons sinned against Him, Then He sent them into the power of their transgression." 
Job8:5 If you would seek God earnestly And plead for the grace of the Almighty," 
Job8:6 If you are pure and upright, Indeed now He would rouse Himself for you And make your righteous abode at peace." 
Job8:7 Though your beginning was insignificant, Yet your end will increase greatly." 
Job8:8 “Please ask of past generations, And establish the things searched out by their fathers." 
Job8:9 For we are only of yesterday and know nothing, Because our days on earth are but a shadow." 
Job8:10 Will they not instruct you and tell you, And bring forth words from their hearts?" 
Job8:11 “Can the papyrus grow up without a marsh? Can the rushes grow without water? 
Job8:12 While it is still green and not cut down, Yet it dries up before any other plant." 
Job8:13 So are the paths of all who forget God; And the hope of the godless will perish," 
Job8:14 Whose confidence is fragile, And whose trust a spider’s web." 
Job8:15 He relies on his house, but it does not stand; He holds fast to it, but it is not established." 
Job8:16 He thrives before the sun, And his shoots go forth over his garden." 
Job8:17 His roots wrap around a rock pile; He looks upon a house of stones. 
Job8:18 If He swallows him up from his place, Then it will deny him, saying, ‘I never saw you.’" 
Job8:19 Behold, this is the joy of His way; And out of the dust others will spring." 
Job8:20 Behold, God will not reject a blameless man, Nor will He strengthen the hand of the evildoers." 
Job8:21 He will yet fill your mouth with laughter And your lips with shouting. 
Job8:22 Those who hate you will be clothed with shame, And the tent of the wicked will be no longer.”" 
Job9:1 Then Job answered and said," 
Job9:2 “In truth I know that this is so; But how can a man be in the right before God? 
Job9:3 If one desired to contend with Him, He could not answer Him once in a thousand times." 
Job9:4 Wise in heart and mighty in power, Who has stiffened his neck against Him and been at peace?" 
Job9:5 God is the One who removes the mountains, they know not how, When He overturns them in His anger;" 
Job9:6 The One who shakes the earth out of its place, And its pillars tremble;" 
Job9:7 The One who says for the sun not to shine, And sets a seal upon the stars;" 
Job9:8 Who alone stretches out the heavens, And tramples down the waves of the sea;" 
Job9:9 Who makes the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades, And the chambers of the south;" 
Job9:10 Who does great things, unsearchable, And wondrous works, innumerable." 
Job9:11 Were He to sweep by me, I would not see Him; Were He to move past me, I would not perceive Him." 
Job9:12 Were He to snatch away, who could turn Him back? Who could say to Him, ‘What are You doing?’" 
Job9:13 “God will not turn back His anger; Beneath Him crouch the helpers of Rahab. 
Job9:14 How then can I answer Him, And choose my words before Him?" 
Job9:15 For though I were right, I could not answer; I would have to plead for the grace of my judge." 
Job9:16 If I called and He answered me, I could not believe that He was giving ear to my voice." 
Job9:17 For He bruises me with a tempest And multiplies my wounds without cause. 
Job9:18 He will not allow me to get my breath, But saturates me with bitterness." 
Job9:19 If it is a matter of power, behold, He is the mighty one! And if it is a matter of justice, who can make Him testify?" 
Job9:20 Though I am righteous, my mouth will condemn me; Though I am blameless, He will declare me perverse." 
Job9:21 I am blameless; I do not know my soul; I reject my life. 
Job9:22 It is all one; therefore I say, ‘He consumes the blameless and the wicked.’" 
Job9:23 If the scourge puts to death suddenly, He mocks the despair of the innocent." 
Job9:24 The earth is given into the hand of the wicked; He covers the faces of its judges. If it is not He, then who is it?" 
Job9:25 “Now my days are swifter than a runner; They flee away; they do not see good. 
Job9:26 They sweep by like reed boats, Like an eagle that swoops on its food." 
Job9:27 Though I say, ‘I will forget my musing, I will forsake my sad countenance and be cheerful,’" 
Job9:28 I am afraid of all my pains; I know that You will not acquit me. 
Job9:29 I am accounted wicked; Why then should I toil in vain? 
Job9:30 If I should wash myself with snow And cleanse my hands with lye," 
Job9:31 Yet You would plunge me into the pit, And my own clothes would abhor me." 
Job9:32 For He is not a man as I am that I may answer Him, That we may go to court for judgment together." 
Job9:33 There is no adjudicator between us, Who may lay his hand upon us both." 
Job9:34 Let Him remove His rod from me, And let not dread of Him terrify me." 
Job9:35 Then I would speak and not fear Him; But I am not like that in myself. 
Job10:1 “My soul is loathed by my life; I will abandon all restraint in myself to my complaint; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. 
Job10:2 I will say to God, ‘Do not account me as wicked; Let me know why You contend with me." 
Job10:3 Is it good to You that You oppress, That You reject the labor of Your hands, And cause the counsel of the wicked to shine forth?" 
Job10:4 Have You eyes of flesh? Or do You see as a mortal man sees? 
Job10:5 Are Your days as the days of a mortal man, Or Your years as man’s years," 
Job10:6 That You should seek for my guilt And search after my sin? 
Job10:7 According to Your knowledge I am indeed not wicked, Yet there is no deliverer from Your hand." 
Job10:8 ‘Your hands fashioned and made me altogether, And would You swallow me up?" 
Job10:9 Remember now, that You have made me as clay; And would You turn me into dust again?" 
Job10:10 Did You not pour me out like milk And curdle me like cheese," 
Job10:11 Clothe me with skin and flesh, And knit me together with bones and sinews?" 
Job10:12 You have made alongside me life and lovingkindness; And Your care has kept my spirit. 
Job10:13 Yet these things You have concealed in Your heart; I know that this is within You: 
Job10:14 If I sin, then You would take note of me And would not acquit me of my guilt." 
Job10:15 If I am wicked, woe to me! And if I am righteous, I dare not lift up my head. I am sated with disgrace—so see my misery!" 
Job10:16 Should my head be set on high, You would hunt me like a lion; And again You would show Your wonders against me." 
Job10:17 You renew Your witnesses against me And increase Your vexation toward me; Hardship after hardship is with me. 
Job10:18 ‘Why then have You brought me out of the womb? Would that I had breathed my last and no eye had seen me! 
Job10:19 I should have been as though I had not been, Carried from womb to tomb.’" 
Job10:20 Would He not cease for a few of my days? Withdraw from me that I may have a little cheer 
Job10:21 Before I go—and I shall not return— To the land of darkness and shadow of death," 
Job10:22 The land of utter gloom as the thick darkness itself, Of the shadow of death, without order, And which shines as the thick darkness.”" 
Job11:1 Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said," 
Job11:2 “Shall a multitude of words go unanswered, And a man of lips be in the right?" 
Job11:3 Shall your boasts silence men? And shall you mock and none rebuke? 
Job11:4 You have said, ‘My learning is pure, And I am innocent in your eyes.’" 
Job11:5 But would that God might speak, And open His lips against you," 
Job11:6 And tell you the secrets of wisdom! For sound wisdom has two sides. Know then that God forgets a part of your iniquity. 
Job11:7 “Can you find the depths of God? Can you find the limits of the Almighty? 
Job11:8 They are high as the heavens, what can you do? Deeper than Sheol, what can you know?" 
Job11:9 Its measure is longer than the earth And broader than the sea. 
Job11:10 If He sweeps by or shuts up, Or calls an assembly, who can turn Him around?" 
Job11:11 For He knows worthless men, And He sees wickedness, so will He not carefully consider it?" 
Job11:12 Yet an empty headed man will obtain a heart of wisdom, And the foal of a wild donkey is born a man." 
Job11:13 “If you would set your heart right And spread out your hand to Him," 
Job11:14 If wickedness is in your hand, put it far away, And do not let unrighteousness dwell in your tents;" 
Job11:15 Then, indeed, you could lift up your face without moral defect, And you would be steadfast and not fear." 
Job11:16 For you would forget your trouble, As waters that pass by, so you would remember it." 
Job11:17 And your lifetime would arise brighter than noonday; Darkness would be like the morning. 
Job11:18 Then you would trust, because there is hope; And you would search around and rest securely." 
Job11:19 You would lie down and none would make you tremble, And many would entreat your favor." 
Job11:20 But the eyes of the wicked will come to an end, And escape will perish from them; And their hope is the expiring of their soul.”" 
Job12:1 Then Job answered and said," 
Job12:2 “Truly then you are the people, And with you wisdom will die!" 
Job12:3 But I have a heart of wisdom as well as you; I do not fall short of you. And who does not know such things as these? 
Job12:4 I am a laughingstock to my friends, The one who called on God and He answered him; The righteous and blameless man is a laughingstock." 
Job12:5 As for upheaval, there is only contempt by the one who acts at ease, But it is prepared for those whose feet slip." 
Job12:6 The tents of the destroyers are complacent, And those who provoke God are secure, Whom God brings into their power." 
Job12:7 “But now ask the beasts, and let them instruct you; And the birds of the sky, and let them tell you." 
Job12:8 Or muse to the earth, and let it instruct you; And let the fish of the sea recount it to you." 
Job12:9 Who among all these does not know That the hand of Yahweh has done this," 
Job12:10 In whose hand is the life of every living thing, And the breath of all the flesh of man?" 
Job12:11 Does not the ear test words, As the palate tastes its food?" 
Job12:12 Wisdom is with aged men, With long life is discernment." 
Job12:13 “With Him are wisdom and might; To Him belong counsel and discernment. 
Job12:14 Behold, He pulls down, and it cannot be rebuilt; He closes a man in, and it cannot be opened." 
Job12:15 Behold, He restrains the waters, and they dry up; And He sends them out, and they overturn the earth." 
Job12:16 With Him are strength and sound wisdom; The misled and the misleader belong to Him. 
Job12:17 He makes counselors walk barefoot And makes fools of judges. 
Job12:18 He opens the bond of kings And binds their loins with a belt. 
Job12:19 He makes priests walk barefoot And subverts the enduring ones. 
Job12:20 He removes speech from the faithful And takes away the discerning taste of the elders. 
Job12:21 He pours contempt on nobles And loosens the belt of the strong. 
Job12:22 He reveals mysteries from the darkness And brings out the shadows of death into light. 
Job12:23 He makes the nations great, then makes them perish; He enlarges the nations, then leads them away." 
Job12:24 He removes the heart of wisdom from the heads of the earth’s people And makes them wander in a pathless waste. 
Job12:25 They grope in darkness with no light, And He makes them wander about like a drunken man." 
Job13:1 “Behold, my eye has seen all this; My ear has heard and understood it." 
Job13:2 What you know I also know; I have not fallen short of you. 
Job13:3 “But I would speak to the Almighty, And I desire to argue with God." 
Job13:4 But you cover me with lies; You are all worthless physicians. 
Job13:5 O that you would be completely silent, And that it would become your wisdom!" 
Job13:6 Please hear my argument And give heed to the contentions of my lips. 
Job13:7 Will you speak what is unrighteous for God, And speak what is deceitful for Him?" 
Job13:8 Will you show partiality for Him? Will you contend for God? 
Job13:9 Will it be well when He examines you? Or will you deceive Him as one deceives a man? 
Job13:10 He will surely reprove you If you secretly show partiality. 
Job13:11 Will not His exaltedness terrify you, And the dread of Him fall on you?" 
Job13:12 Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes; Your defenses are defenses of clay. 
Job13:13 “Be silent before me so that I may speak; Then let come on me what may. 
Job13:14 Why should I take my flesh in my teeth And put my life in my hands? 
Job13:15 Though He slay me, I will hope in Him. Nevertheless I will argue my ways before Him." 
Job13:16 This also will be my salvation, For a godless man may not come before His presence." 
Job13:17 Listen carefully to my words, And let my declaration fill your ears." 
Job13:18 Behold now, I have arranged my case for justice; I know that I will be declared righteous." 
Job13:19 Who will contend with me? For now I am silent and will breathe my last. 
Job13:20 “Only two things do not do to me, Then I will not hide from Your face:" 
Job13:21 Move Your hand far from me, And let not the dread of You terrify me." 
Job13:22 Then call, and I will answer; Or let me speak, then respond to me." 
Job13:23 How many are my iniquities and sins? Make known to me my transgression and my sin. 
Job13:24 Why do You hide Your face And think of me as Your enemy? 
Job13:25 Will You cause a driven leaf to tremble? Or will You pursue the dry chaff? 
Job13:26 For You write bitter things against me And make me to possess the iniquities of my youth. 
Job13:27 You put my feet in the stocks And kept watch over all my paths; You set a limit for the soles of my feet," 
Job13:28 While I am decaying like a rotten thing, Like a garment that is moth‑eaten." 
Job14:1 “Man, who is born of woman, Is short‑lived and full of turmoil." 
Job14:2 Like a flower he comes forth and withers. He also flees like a shadow and does not stand. 
Job14:3 You also open Your eyes on him And bring me into judgment with Yourself. 
Job14:4 Who can make the clean out of the unclean? No one! 
Job14:5 Since his days are determined, The number of his months is with You; And his limits You have set so that he cannot pass." 
Job14:6 Turn Your gaze from him that he may cease from toil, Until he accepts his day like a hired man." 
Job14:7 “For there is hope for a tree, When it is cut down, that it will change back sprouting again, And its shoots will not cease." 
Job14:8 Though its roots grow old in the ground And its stump dies in the dry soil," 
Job14:9 At the scent of water it will flourish And put forth sprigs like a plant. 
Job14:10 But man dies and lies prostrate. Man breathes his last, and where is he?" 
Job14:11 As water evaporates from the sea, And a river becomes parched and dried up," 
Job14:12 So man lies down and does not rise. Until the heavens are no longer, He will not awake nor be aroused out of his sleep." 
Job14:13 “Oh that You would conceal me in Sheol, That You would hide me until Your anger returns to You, That You would set a limit for me and remember me!" 
Job14:14 If a man dies, will he live again? All the days of my labor I will wait Until my change comes." 
Job14:15 You will call, and I will answer You; You will long for the work of Your hands." 
Job14:16 For now You number my steps, You do not keep watch over my sin." 
Job14:17 My transgression is sealed up in a bag, And You cover up my iniquity." 
Job14:18 “But the falling mountain crumbles away, And the rock moves from its place;" 
Job14:19 Water wears away stones; Its torrents wash away the dust of the earth; So You make man’s hope perish. 
Job14:20 You forever overpower him and he goes away; You alter his appearance and send him away. 
Job14:21 His sons achieve honor, but he does not know it; Or they become insignificant, but he does not perceive it." 
Job14:22 But his flesh pains him, And he mourns only for himself.”" 
Job15:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said," 
Job15:2 “Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge And fill his belly with the east wind? 
Job15:3 Should he argue with a word that cannot be used, Or with speech which is not profitable?" 
Job15:4 Indeed, you annul reverent fear And cut off musing before God." 
Job15:5 For your iniquity teaches your mouth, And you choose the tongue of the crafty." 
Job15:6 Your own mouth condemns you, and not I; And your own lips answer against you." 
Job15:7 “Were you the first man to be born, Or were you brought forth before the hills?" 
Job15:8 Do you hear the secret counsel of God, And cut down wisdom only unto yourself?" 
Job15:9 What do you know that we do not know? What do you understand that is not with us? 
Job15:10 Both the gray‑haired and the aged are among us, Older than your father." 
Job15:11 Are the consolations of God too small for you, Even the word spoken gently with you?" 
Job15:12 Why does your heart take you away? And why do your eyes flash," 
Job15:13 That you should turn your spirit against God And allow such words to go out of your mouth? 
Job15:14 What is man, that he should be pure, Or he who is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?" 
Job15:15 Behold, He puts no faith in His holy ones, And the heavens are not pure in His sight;" 
Job15:16 How much less one who is abominable and corrupt, Man, who drinks unrighteousness like water!" 
Job15:17 “I will tell you, listen to me; And what I have beheld I will also recount;" 
Job15:18 What wise men have told, And have not concealed from their fathers," 
Job15:19 To whom alone the land was given, And no stranger passed among them." 
Job15:20 The wicked man writhes in pain all his days, And numbered are the years stored up for the ruthless." 
Job15:21 Sounds of dread are in his ears; While at peace the destroyer comes upon him. 
Job15:22 He does not believe that he will return from darkness, And he is destined for the sword." 
Job15:23 He wanders about for food, saying, ‘Where is it?’ He knows that a day of darkness is ready at his hand." 
Job15:24 Distress and anguish terrify him; They overpower him like a king ready for the attack," 
Job15:25 Because he has stretched out his hand against God And magnifies himself against the Almighty. 
Job15:26 He rushes headlong at Him With his massive shield. 
Job15:27 For he has covered his face with his fat And made his thighs heavy with flesh. 
Job15:28 He has dwelt in desolate cities, In houses no one would inhabit, Which are destined to become ruins." 
Job15:29 He will not become rich, nor will his wealth endure; And his grain will not stretch out over the land." 
Job15:30 He will not be able to depart from darkness; The flame will wither his shoots, And by the breath of His mouth he will depart." 
Job15:31 Let him not believe in emptiness, deceiving himself; For emptiness will be his reward," 
Job15:32 When his days are not yet fulfilled, And his palm branch is not green." 
Job15:33 He will drop off his unripe grape like the vine, And will cast off his flower like the olive tree." 
Job15:34 For the company of the godless is barren, And fire consumes the tents of the corrupt." 
Job15:35 They conceive trouble and give birth to wickedness, And their belly prepares deception.”" 
Job16:1 Then Job answered and said," 
Job16:2 “I have heard many such things; Troublesome comforters are you all. 
Job16:3 Is there no end to windy words? Or what pains you that you answer? 
Job16:4 I too could speak like you, If your soul were in the place of my soul. I could compose words against you And shake my head at you." 
Job16:5 I could encourage you with my mouth, And the solace of my lips could lessen your pain." 
Job16:6 “If I speak, my pain is not lessened, And if I cease, what will go forth from me?" 
Job16:7 But now He has exhausted me; You have made desolate all my company. 
Job16:8 You have shriveled me up, It has become a witness; And my leanness rises up against me, It answers to my face." 
Job16:9 His anger has torn me and hunted me down; He has gnashed at me with His teeth; My adversary sharpens his eyes to look at me. 
Job16:10 They have opened their mouth wide at me; They have struck me on the cheek in reproach; They have massed themselves against me. 
Job16:11 God hands me over to ruffians And tosses me into the hands of the wicked. 
Job16:12 I was at ease, but He shattered me, And He has grasped me by the neck and shaken me to pieces; He has also set me up as His target." 
Job16:13 His arrows surround me. Without mercy He splits my kidneys open; He pours out my gall on the ground. 
Job16:14 He breaks through me with breach after breach; He runs at me like a warrior. 
Job16:15 I have sewed sackcloth over my skin And thrust my horn in the dust. 
Job16:16 My face is flushed from weeping, And the shadow of death is on my eyelids," 
Job16:17 Why?—because there is no violence in my hands, And my prayer is pure." 
Job16:18 “O earth, do not cover my blood, And let there be no resting place for my cry." 
Job16:19 Even now, behold, my witness is in heaven, And my advocate is on high." 
Job16:20 My friends are my scoffers; My eye weeps to God. 
Job16:21 O that a man might argue with God As a man with his neighbor! 
Job16:22 For when a few years are past, I shall go the way of no return." 
Job17:1 “My spirit is broken; my days are extinguished; The grave is ready for me. 
Job17:2 Surely mockers are with me, And my eye gazes on their provocation." 
Job17:3 “Establish, now, a pledge for me with Yourself; Who is there that will clap my hand in pledge?" 
Job17:4 For You have hidden their heart from insight, Therefore You will not exalt them." 
Job17:5 He who informs against friends for a share of the spoil, The eyes of his children also will come to an end." 
Job17:6 “But He has made me a byword of the people, And I am one at whom men spit." 
Job17:7 My eye has also grown dim because of grief, And all my members are as a shadow." 
Job17:8 The upright will be appalled at this, And the innocent will stir up himself against the godless." 
Job17:9 Nevertheless the righteous will hold to his way, And he who has clean hands will grow mightier and mightier." 
Job17:10 But come again all of you now, For I do not find a wise man among you." 
Job17:11 My days are past; my plans are torn apart, Even the wishes of my heart." 
Job17:12 They make night into day, saying, ‘The light is near,’ in the presence of darkness." 
Job17:13 If I hope for Sheol as my home, I make my bed in the darkness;" 
Job17:14 If I call to the pit, ‘You are my father’; To the worm, ‘my mother and my sister’;" 
Job17:15 Where now is my hope? And who beholds my hope? 
Job17:16 Will it go down with me to Sheol? Shall we together go down into the dust?” 
Job18:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said," 
Job18:2 “How long until you put an end to your words? Show understanding and then we can talk. 
Job18:3 Why are we regarded as beasts, As dense in your eyes?" 
Job18:4 O you who tear yourself in your anger— For your sake is the earth to be forsaken, Or the rock to be moved from its place?" 
Job18:5 “Indeed, the light of the wicked goes out, And the flame of his fire gives no light." 
Job18:6 The light in his tent is darkened, And his lamp goes out above him." 
Job18:7 His vigorous stride is shortened, And his own counsel brings him down." 
Job18:8 For he is thrown into the net by his own feet, And he steps on the netting." 
Job18:9 A snare seizes him by the heel, And a device snaps shut on him." 
Job18:10 A rope for him is hidden in the ground, And a trap for him on the path." 
Job18:11 All around terrors frighten him, And harass him at every step." 
Job18:12 His vigor is famished, And disaster is ready at his side." 
Job18:13 The firstborn of death eats parts of his skin; It eats parts of him. 
Job18:14 He is torn from the security of his tent, And they march him in step before the king of terrors." 
Job18:15 There dwells in his tent nothing of his; Brimstone is scattered on his abode. 
Job18:16 His roots are dried below, And his branch is cut off above." 
Job18:17 Memory of him perishes from the earth, And he has no name abroad." 
Job18:18 He is driven from light into darkness, And chased from the inhabited world." 
Job18:19 He has neither offspring nor posterity among his people, Nor any survivor where he sojourned." 
Job18:20 Those in the west are appalled at his fate, And those in the east are seized with horror." 
Job18:21 Surely such are the dwellings of the unjust, And this is the place of him who does not know God.”" 
Job19:1 Then Job answered and said," 
Job19:2 “How long will you torment my soul And crush me with words? 
Job19:3 These ten times you have dishonored me; You are not ashamed that you wrong me. 
Job19:4 Even if I have truly erred, My error lodges with me." 
Job19:5 If truly you magnify yourselves against me And argue my disgrace to me," 
Job19:6 Know then that God has wronged me And has closed His net around me. 
Job19:7 “Behold, I cry, ‘Violence!’ but I get no answer; I shout for help, but there is no justice." 
Job19:8 He has walled up my way so that I cannot pass, And He has put darkness on my paths." 
Job19:9 He has stripped my honor from me And removed the crown from my head. 
Job19:10 He breaks me down on every side, and I am gone; And He has uprooted my hope like a tree." 
Job19:11 He has also kindled His anger against me And counted me as His adversary. 
Job19:12 His troops come together, And build up their way against me And camp around my tent." 
Job19:13 “He has removed my brothers far from me, And my acquaintances are completely estranged from me." 
Job19:14 My relatives have failed, And my familiar friends have forgotten me." 
Job19:15 Those who sojourn in my house and my maidservants count me a stranger. I am a foreigner in their sight. 
Job19:16 I call to my servant, but he does not answer; I have to implore him with my mouth." 
Job19:17 My breath is offensive to my wife, And I am loathsome to my own brothers." 
Job19:18 Even young children reject me; I rise up, and they speak against me." 
Job19:19 All the men of my counsel abhor me, And those I love have turned against me." 
Job19:20 My bone clings to my skin and my flesh, And I have escaped only by the skin of my teeth." 
Job19:21 Pity me, pity me, O you my friends, For the hand of God has smitten me." 
Job19:22 Why do you persecute me as God does, And are not satisfied with my flesh?" 
Job19:23 “Oh that my words were written! Oh that they were inscribed in a book! 
Job19:24 That with an iron stylus and lead They were engraved in the rock forever! 
Job19:25 As for me, I know that my Redeemer lives, And at the last He will rise up over the dust of this world." 
Job19:26 Even after my skin is destroyed, Yet from my flesh I shall behold God," 
Job19:27 Whom I myself shall behold, And whom my eyes will see and not another. My heart faints within me!" 
Job19:28 If you say, ‘How shall we persecute him?’ ‘And the root of the matter is found in him?’" 
Job19:29 Then be afraid of the sword for yourselves, For wrath brings the punishment of the sword, So that you may know there is judgment.”" 
Job20:1 Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said," 
Job20:2 “Therefore my disquieting thoughts make me respond, Even because of my haste within me." 
Job20:3 I listened to the discipline which dishonors me, And the spirit of my understanding makes me answer." 
Job20:4 Do you know this from of old, From the establishment of man on earth," 
Job20:5 That the shouts of joy of the wicked are short, And the gladness of the godless momentary?" 
Job20:6 Though his loftiness goes up to the heavens, And his head touches the clouds," 
Job20:7 He perishes forever like his refuse; Those who have seen him will say, ‘Where is he?’" 
Job20:8 He flies away like a dream, and they cannot find him; Even like a vision of the night he is chased away." 
Job20:9 The eye which saw him sees him no longer, And his place no longer beholds him." 
Job20:10 His sons seek the favor of the poor, And his hands give back his wealth." 
Job20:11 His bones are full of his youthful vigor, But it lies down with him in the dust." 
Job20:12 “Though evil is sweet in his mouth And he hides it under his tongue," 
Job20:13 Though he desires it and will not forsake it, And holds it to his palate," 
Job20:14 Yet his food in his stomach is changed To the venom of cobras within him. 
Job20:15 He swallows up wealth, But will vomit it up; God will expel it from his belly." 
Job20:16 He sucks the poison of cobras; The viper’s tongue kills him. 
Job20:17 He does not look at the streams, The rivers flowing with honey and curds." 
Job20:18 He returns what he has attained And cannot swallow it; As to the wealth of his trading, He cannot even enjoy it." 
Job20:19 For he has crushed and forsaken the poor; He has seized a house which he has not built. 
Job20:20 “Because he knew no ease within his belly, In his covetousness, he does not let anything escape." 
Job20:21 Nothing remains for him to devour; Therefore his prosperity does not endure. 
Job20:22 In the fullness of his plenty he will be confined; The hand of everyone who is troubled will come against him. 
Job20:23 So it will be that he fills his belly, And God will send His burning anger on him And will rain it on him while he is eating." 
Job20:24 He may flee from the iron weapon, But the bronze bow will pierce him." 
Job20:25 It is drawn forth and comes out of his back, Even the glittering point from his gall; Bouts of dread come upon him." 
Job20:26 Complete darkness is held in reserve for his treasures; A fire unfanned will devour him; It will consume the survivor in his tent. 
Job20:27 The heavens will reveal his iniquity, And the earth will rise up against him." 
Job20:28 The increase of his house will depart; His possessions will flow away in the day of His anger. 
Job20:29 This is the wicked man’s portion from God, Even the inheritance decreed to him by God.”" 
Job21:1 Then Job answered and said," 
Job21:2 “Listen carefully to my speech, And let this be your way of consolation." 
Job21:3 Bear with me that I may speak; Then after I have spoken, you may mock." 
Job21:4 As for me, is my musing to man? And why should I not be impatient?" 
Job21:5 Look at me, and be appalled, And put your hand over your mouth." 
Job21:6 Even when I remember, I am dismayed, And horror seizes my flesh." 
Job21:7 Why do the wicked still live, Continue on, also become very powerful?" 
Job21:8 Their seed is established with them in their presence, And their offspring before their eyes," 
Job21:9 Their houses are safe from dread, And the rod of God is not on them." 
Job21:10 His ox mates and does not fail; His cow calves and does not miscarry. 
Job21:11 They send forth their little ones like the flock, And their children skip about." 
Job21:12 They lift up the tambourine and harp And are glad at the sound of the pipe. 
Job21:13 They spend their days in prosperity, And suddenly they go down to Sheol." 
Job21:14 They say to God, ‘Depart from us! We do not even desire the knowledge of Your ways." 
Job21:15 Who is the Almighty, that we should serve Him, And what would we profit if we entreat Him?’" 
Job21:16 Behold, their prosperity is not in their hand; The counsel of the wicked is far from me." 
Job21:17 “How often is the lamp of the wicked put out, Or does their disaster fall on them? Does God apportion destruction in His anger?" 
Job21:18 Are they as straw before the wind, And like chaff which the storm steals away?" 
Job21:19 You say, ‘God stores away a man’s wickedness for his sons.’ Let God repay him so that he may know it." 
Job21:20 Let his own eyes see his decay, And let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty." 
Job21:21 For what desire does he have for his household after him, When the number of his months is cut off?" 
Job21:22 Can anyone teach God knowledge, In that He judges those on high?" 
Job21:23 One dies in his full strength, Being wholly carefree and at ease;" 
Job21:24 His sides are filled out with fat, And the marrow of his bones is moist," 
Job21:25 But another dies with a bitter soul, Never even eats anything good." 
Job21:26 Together they lie down in the dust, And worms cover them." 
Job21:27 “Behold, I know your thoughts, And the plans by which you do violence against me." 
Job21:28 For you say, ‘Where is the house of the nobleman, And where is the tent, the dwelling places of the wicked?’" 
Job21:29 Have you not asked those who pass by along the way, And do you not recognize their witness?" 
Job21:30 That the wicked is reserved for the day of disaster; They will be led forth at the day of fury. 
Job21:31 Who will declare to his face about his actions, And who will repay him for what he has done?" 
Job21:32 While he is led forth to the grave, Men will keep watch over his tomb." 
Job21:33 The clods of the valley will gently cover him; Moreover, all men will draw up after him, While countless ones go before him." 
Job21:34 How then will you vainly comfort me, Indeed when your answers remain full of falsehood?”" 
Job22:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said," 
Job22:2 “Can a mighty man be of use to God, Or an insightful man be useful to himself?" 
Job22:3 Is there any pleasure to the Almighty if you are righteous, Or profit if you make your ways perfect?" 
Job22:4 Is it because of your reverent fear that He reproves you, That He enters into judgment against you?" 
Job22:5 Is not your evil great, And your iniquities without end?" 
Job22:6 For you have taken pledges of your brothers without cause, And stripped the clothing of the naked." 
Job22:7 To the weary you have given no water to drink, And from the hungry you have withheld bread." 
Job22:8 But the earth belongs to the mighty man, And the highly respected man inhabits it." 
Job22:9 You have sent widows away empty, And the might of the orphans has been crushed." 
Job22:10 Therefore snares surround you, And sudden dread terrifies you," 
Job22:11 Or darkness, so that you cannot see, And an abundance of water covers you." 
Job22:12 “Is not God in the height of heaven? Look also at the distant stars, how high they are!" 
Job22:13 You say, ‘What does God know? Can He judge through the dense gloom?" 
Job22:14 Clouds are a hiding place for Him, so that He cannot see; And He walks on the vault of heaven.’" 
Job22:15 Will you keep to the ancient path Which wicked men have trod," 
Job22:16 Who were snatched away before their time, Whose foundations were washed away by a river?" 
Job22:17 They said to God, ‘Depart from us!’ And ‘What can the Almighty do to them?’" 
Job22:18 Yet He filled their houses with good things, But the counsel of the wicked is far from me." 
Job22:19 The righteous see and are glad, And the innocent mock them," 
Job22:20 Saying, ‘Truly those who rise against us are wiped out, And their abundance the fire has consumed.’" 
Job22:21 “Yield now and be at peace with Him; Thereby good will come to you. 
Job22:22 Please receive instruction from His mouth And set His words in your heart. 
Job22:23 If you return to the Almighty, you will be restored; If you remove unrighteousness far from your tent," 
Job22:24 And put your gold in the dust, And the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks," 
Job22:25 Then the Almighty will be your gold And choice silver to you. 
Job22:26 For then you will delight in the Almighty And lift up your face to God. 
Job22:27 You will entreat Him, and He will hear you; And you will pay your vows." 
Job22:28 You will also decree a thing, and it will be established for you; And light will shine on your ways." 
Job22:29 When some are cast down, you will speak with confidence, And the humble person He will save." 
Job22:30 He will provide escape for one who is not innocent, And he will escape through the cleanness of your hands.”" 
Job23:1 Then Job answered and said," 
Job23:2 “Even today my musing is rebellion; His hand is heavy despite my groaning. 
Job23:3 Oh that I knew where I might find Him, That I might come to His seat!" 
Job23:4 I would arrange my case for justice before Him And fill my mouth with arguments. 
Job23:5 I would know the words which He would answer, And discern what He would say to me." 
Job23:6 Would He contend with me by the greatness of His power? No, surely He would pay attention to me." 
Job23:7 There the upright would argue with Him; And I would have escaped forever from my Judge. 
Job23:8 “Behold, I go forward but He is not there, And backward, but I cannot discern Him;" 
Job23:9 When He acts on the left, I cannot behold Him; He turns on the right, I cannot see Him." 
Job23:10 But He knows the way I take; When He has tested me, I shall come forth as gold." 
Job23:11 My foot has held fast to His path; I have kept His way and not turned aside. 
Job23:12 I have not departed from the command of His lips; I have treasured the words of His mouth more than my portion of food. 
Job23:13 But He is unique and who can turn Him? And what His soul desires, that He does." 
Job23:14 For He performs what is apportioned for me, And many such decrees are with Him." 
Job23:15 Therefore, I would be dismayed at His presence; I carefully consider, and I am in dread of Him." 
Job23:16 It is God who has made my heart faint, And the Almighty who has dismayed me," 
Job23:17 But I am not silenced by the darkness, Nor thick darkness which covers me." 
Job24:1 “Why are times not stored up by the Almighty, And why do those who know Him not behold His days?" 
Job24:2 Some move the boundaries; They seize and devour flocks. 
Job24:3 They drive away the donkeys of the orphans; They take the widow’s ox for a pledge. 
Job24:4 They push the needy aside from the road; The afflicted of the land are made to hide themselves altogether. 
Job24:5 Behold, as wild donkeys in the wilderness They go forth seeking food earnestly in their work, The desert becomes for him a place of bread for his young ones." 
Job24:6 They harvest their fodder in the field And glean the vineyard of the wicked. 
Job24:7 They spend the night naked, without clothing, And have no covering against the cold." 
Job24:8 They are wet with the mountain rains And hug the rock for want of a shelter. 
Job24:9 Others snatch the orphan from the breast, And against the afflicted they take a pledge." 
Job24:10 Those poor ones walk about naked without clothing, And hungry ones carry the sheaves." 
Job24:11 Within the walls they produce oil; They tread wine presses but thirst. 
Job24:12 From the city men groan, And the souls of the wounded cry out; Yet God does not pay attention to such offense." 
Job24:13 “Others have been with those who rebel against the light; They do not want to recognize its ways Nor abide in its paths. 
Job24:14 The murderer arises at dawn; He kills the afflicted and the needy, And at night he is as a thief." 
Job24:15 The eye of the adulterer keeps watch for the twilight, Saying, ‘No eye will see me.’ And he keeps his face hidden." 
Job24:16 In the dark they dig into houses; They shut themselves up by day; They do not know the light. 
Job24:17 For the morning is the same to him as the shadow of death, For he recognizes the terrors of the shadow of death." 
Job24:18 “They are insignificant on the surface of the water; Their portion is cursed on the earth. They do not turn toward the vineyards. 
Job24:19 Drought and heat seize the snow waters, So does Sheol those who have sinned." 
Job24:20 A mother will forget him; The worm feasts sweetly till he is no longer remembered. And unrighteousness will be broken like a tree. 
Job24:21 He feeds on the barren woman who does not give birth And does no good for the widow. 
Job24:22 But He drags off the mighty by His power; He rises, but no one believes in his life." 
Job24:23 He provides them with security, and they are supported; And His eyes are on their ways." 
Job24:24 They are exalted a little while, then they are gone; Moreover, they are brought low and like everything gathered up; Even like the heads of grain they are cut off." 
Job24:25 Now if it is not so, who can prove me a liar, And make my speech worthless?”" 
Job25:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said," 
Job25:2 “Rule and dread belong to Him Who makes peace in His heights. 
Job25:3 Is there any number to His troops? And upon whom does His light not rise? 
Job25:4 How then can mortal man be right with God? Or how can he be pure who is born of woman? 
Job25:5 Behold even the moon has no brightness, And the stars are not pure in His sight;" 
Job25:6 How much less mortal man, that maggot, And the son of man, that worm!”" 
Job26:1 Then Job answered and said," 
Job26:2 “What a help you are to the one without power! How you have saved the arm without strength! 
Job26:3 What counsel you have given to one without wisdom! What sound wisdom you have abundantly made known! 
Job26:4 To whom have you declared words? And whose breath comes out from you? 
Job26:5 “The departed spirits tremble Under the waters and their inhabitants. 
Job26:6 Naked is Sheol before Him, And Abaddon has no covering." 
Job26:7 He stretches out the north over what is formless And hangs the earth on nothing. 
Job26:8 He wraps up the waters in His clouds, And the cloud does not break out under them." 
Job26:9 He obscures the face of His throne And spreads His cloud over it. 
Job26:10 He has marked a circle on the surface of the waters At the boundary of light and darkness. 
Job26:11 The pillars of heaven tremble And are astonished at His rebuke. 
Job26:12 He quieted the sea with His power, And by His understanding He crushed Rahab." 
Job26:13 By His breath the heavens are made beautiful; His hand has pierced the fleeing serpent. 
Job26:14 Behold, these are the fringes of His ways; And how only with a whisper of a word do we hear of Him! But His mighty thunder, who can understand?”" 
Job27:1 Then Job continued to lift up his discourse and said," 
Job27:2 “As God lives, who has removed my justice, And the Almighty, who has embittered my soul," 
Job27:3 For as long as breath is in me, And the spirit from God is in my nostrils," 
Job27:4 My lips certainly will not speak unrighteousness, Nor will my tongue utter deceit." 
Job27:5 Far be it from me that I should declare you right; Till I breathe my last I will not remove my integrity from me. 
Job27:6 I hold fast my righteousness and will not let it go. My heart does not reproach any of my days. 
Job27:7 “May my enemy be as the wicked And the one who rises against me as the unjust. 
Job27:8 For what is the hope of the godless when he is cut off, When God requires his soul?" 
Job27:9 Will God hear his cry When distress comes upon him? 
Job27:10 Will he take delight in the Almighty? Will he call on God at all times? 
Job27:11 I will instruct you in the power of God; What is with the Almighty I will not conceal. 
Job27:12 Behold, all of you have seen it; Why then do you speak with utter vanity?" 
Job27:13 “This is the portion of a wicked man from God, And the inheritance which the ruthless receive from the Almighty." 
Job27:14 Though his sons are many, they are destined for the sword; And his offspring will not be satisfied with bread." 
Job27:15 His survivors will be buried because of the plague, And their widows will not be able to weep." 
Job27:16 Though he piles up silver like dust And prepares garments as plentiful as the clay," 
Job27:17 He may prepare it, but the righteous will wear it, And the innocent will divide the silver." 
Job27:18 He has built his house like the moth, Or as a hut which the watchman has made." 
Job27:19 He lies down rich, but never again; He opens his eyes, and it is no longer." 
Job27:20 Terrors overtake him like many waters; A tempest steals him away in the night. 
Job27:21 The east wind carries him away, and he goes, And it whirls him away from his place." 
Job27:22 For it will hurl at him without sparing; He will surely try to flee from its power. 
Job27:23 Men will clap their hands at him And will hiss him from his place. 
Job28:1 “Surely there is a mine for silver, And a place where they refine for gold." 
Job28:2 Iron is taken from the dust, And copper is smelted from rock." 
Job28:3 Man puts an end to darkness, And to the farthest limit he searches out The rock in thick darkness and shadow of death." 
Job28:4 He sinks a shaft far from habitation, Forgotten by the foot; They hang and swing to and fro far from men." 
Job28:5 The earth, from it comes food, And underneath it is overturned as fire." 
Job28:6 Its rocks are the source of sapphires, And its dust contains gold." 
Job28:7 The path no bird of prey knows, Nor has the falcon’s eye caught sight of it." 
Job28:8 The proud beasts have not trodden it, Nor has the fierce lion passed over it." 
Job28:9 He sends his hand forth to the flint; He overturns the mountains at the base. 
Job28:10 He breaks out channels through the rocks, And his eye sees anything precious." 
Job28:11 He dams up the streams from flowing, And what is hidden he brings out to the light." 
Job28:12 “But where can wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding? 
Job28:13 Man does not know its worth, And it is not found in the land of the living." 
Job28:14 The deep says, ‘It is not in me’; And the sea says, ‘It is not with me.’" 
Job28:15 Pure gold cannot be given in place of it, Nor can silver be weighed as its price." 
Job28:16 It cannot be valued in the gold of Ophir, In precious onyx or sapphire." 
Job28:17 Gold or glass cannot meet its worth, Nor can it be exchanged for articles of fine gold." 
Job28:18 Coral and crystal are not to be mentioned; And the acquisition of wisdom is above that of pearls. 
Job28:19 The topaz of Ethiopia cannot meet its worth, Nor can it be valued in pure gold." 
Job28:20 Where then does wisdom come from? And where is the place of understanding? 
Job28:21 Thus it is hidden from the eyes of all living And concealed from the birds of the sky. 
Job28:22 Abaddon and Death say, ‘With our ears we have heard a report of it.’" 
Job28:23 “God understands its way, And He knows its place." 
Job28:24 For He looks to the ends of the earth And sees everything under the heavens. 
Job28:25 When He set weight to the wind And meted out the waters by measure," 
Job28:26 When He set a limit for the rain And a course for the thunderbolt," 
Job28:27 Then He saw it and recounted it; He established it and also searched it out. 
Job28:28 So He said to man, ‘Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom; And to turn away from evil is understanding.’”" 
Job29:1 And Job continued to lift up his discourse and said," 
Job29:2 “Oh that I were as in months gone by, As in the days when God kept me," 
Job29:3 When His lamp shone over my head, And by His light I walked through darkness," 
Job29:4 As I was in the prime of my days, When the intimate counsel with God was over my tent," 
Job29:5 When the Almighty was yet with me, And my children were around me," 
Job29:6 When my steps were bathed in butter, And the rock poured out for me streams of oil!" 
Job29:7 When I went out to the gate of the city, When I took my seat in the square," 
Job29:8 The young men saw me and hid, And the old men arose and stood." 
Job29:9 The princes stopped talking And put their hands on their mouths; 
Job29:10 The voice of the nobles was hidden away, And their tongue clung to their palate." 
Job29:11 For the ear heard, and it called me blessed, And the eye saw, and it gave witness of me," 
Job29:12 Because I provided escape for the afflicted who cried for help, And the orphan who had no helper." 
Job29:13 The blessing of the one ready to perish came upon me, And I made the widow’s heart sing for joy." 
Job29:14 I clothed myself with righteousness, and it clothed me; My justice was like a robe and a turban." 
Job29:15 I was eyes to the blind And feet to the lame. 
Job29:16 I was a father to the needy, And I searched out the case which I did not know." 
Job29:17 I broke the fangs of the unjust And snatched the prey from his teeth. 
Job29:18 Then I said, ‘I will breathe my last in my nest, And I shall multiply my days as the sand." 
Job29:19 My root is spread out to the waters, And dew lies all night on my branch." 
Job29:20 My glory is ever new with me, And my bow is renewed in my hand.’" 
Job29:21 “To me they listened and waited, And kept silent for my counsel." 
Job29:22 After my words they did not speak again, And my speech dropped on them." 
Job29:23 They waited for me as for the rain, And opened their mouth as for the late rain." 
Job29:24 I laughed with them as they could not believe it, And the light of my face they did not cast down." 
Job29:25 I chose a way for them and sat as chief, And dwelt as their head among the troops, As one who comforted the mourners." 
Job30:1 “But now those younger than I laugh at me, Whose fathers I rejected even to put with the dogs of my flock." 
Job30:2 Indeed, what good was the strength of their hands to me? Vigor had perished from them." 
Job30:3 From want and famine they are gaunt, Who gnaw the dry ground by night in destruction and desolation," 
Job30:4 Who pluck mallow by the bushes, And whose food is the root of the broom tree." 
Job30:5 They are driven from the community; They shout against them as against a thief," 
Job30:6 So that they dwell in the slopes of the valleys, In holes of the dust and of the rocks." 
Job30:7 Among the bushes they cry out; Under the nettles they are gathered together. 
Job30:8 Wicked fools, even those without a name, They were scourged from the land." 
Job30:9 “And now I have become their mocking song; I have even become a taunting word to them. 
Job30:10 They abhor me and keep a distance from me, And they do not hold back from spitting at my face." 
Job30:11 Because He has loosed His bowstring and afflicted me, They have thrust aside their bridle before me." 
Job30:12 On the right hand their brood arises; They thrust aside my feet and build up against me their ways to disaster. 
Job30:13 They break up my path; They profit from my destruction; They have no helper. 
Job30:14 As through a wide breach they come, Amid the storm they roll on." 
Job30:15 Terrors are turned against me; They pursue my nobility as the wind, And my hope for salvation has passed away like a cloud." 
Job30:16 “And now my soul is poured out within me; Days of affliction have seized me. 
Job30:17 At night it pierces my bones within me, And my gnawing pains take no rest." 
Job30:18 By a great force my garment is distorted; It seizes me about as the collar of my tunic. 
Job30:19 He has cast me into the mire, And I have become like dust and ashes." 
Job30:20 I cry out to You for help, but You do not answer me; I stand up, and You carefully consider how to be against me." 
Job30:21 You have become cruel to me; With the might of Your hand You hunted me down. 
Job30:22 You lift me up to the wind and cause me to ride; And You melt me away in a storm. 
Job30:23 For I know that You will bring me to death And to the house of meeting for all living. 
Job30:24 “Yet does not one in a heap of ruins stretch out his hand, Or, in his upheaval, is there a cry for help because of them?" 
Job30:25 Have I not wept for the one whose life is hard? Was not my soul grieved for the needy? 
Job30:26 When I hoped for good, then evil came; When I waited for light, then thick darkness came." 
Job30:27 I am boiling within and cannot be silent; Days of affliction confront me. 
Job30:28 I go about darkened but not by the sun; I stand up in the assembly and cry out for help. 
Job30:29 I have become a brother to jackals And a companion of ostriches. 
Job30:30 My skin turns black on me, And my bones burn with fever." 
Job30:31 Therefore my harp is turned to mourning, And my flute to the sound of those who weep." 
Job31:1 “I have cut a covenant with my eyes; How then could I gaze at a virgin? 
Job31:2 And what is the portion of God from above Or the inheritance of the Almighty from on high? 
Job31:3 Is it not disaster to the unjust And misfortune to those who work iniquity? 
Job31:4 Does He not see my ways And number all my steps? 
Job31:5 “If I have walked with worthlessness, And my foot has hastened after deceit," 
Job31:6 Let Him weigh me with just scales, And let God know my integrity." 
Job31:7 If my step has turned from the way, Or my heart followed my eyes, Or if any spot has stuck to my hands," 
Job31:8 Let me sow and another eat, And let my crops be uprooted." 
Job31:9 “If my heart has been enticed by a woman, Or I have lied in wait at my neighbor’s doorway," 
Job31:10 May my wife grind for another, And let others kneel down over her." 
Job31:11 For that would be lewdness; Moreover, it would be an iniquity punishable by judges." 
Job31:12 For it would be fire that consumes to Abaddon, And would uproot all my produce." 
Job31:13 “If I have rejected the justice of my male or female slaves When they filed a complaint against me," 
Job31:14 What then could I do when God arises? And when He calls me to account, with what will I respond to Him?" 
Job31:15 Did not He who made me in the womb make him, And the same one fashion us in the womb?" 
Job31:16 “If I have held back the poor from their desire, Or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail," 
Job31:17 Or have eaten my morsel alone, And the orphan has not eaten from it" 
Job31:18 (But from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, And from the womb of my mother I guided her)," 
Job31:19 If I have seen anyone perish for lack of clothing, Or that the needy had no covering," 
Job31:20 If his loins have not blessed me, And if he has not been warmed with the fleece of my sheep," 
Job31:21 If I have waved my hand against the orphan Because I saw my help in the gate," 
Job31:22 Let my shoulder fall from the socket, And my arm be broken off at the elbow." 
Job31:23 For disaster from God is a dread to me, And because of His exaltedness I can do nothing." 
Job31:24 “If I have put my confidence in gold, And called fine gold my trust," 
Job31:25 If I have been glad because my wealth was great, And because my hand had found so much," 
Job31:26 If I have looked at the sun when it shone Or the moon going in splendor," 
Job31:27 And my heart became secretly enticed, And my hand threw a kiss from my mouth," 
Job31:28 That too would have been an iniquity calling for judgment, For I would have denied God above." 
Job31:29 “If I have been glad at the upheaval of the one who hated me, Or exulted when evil found him—" 
Job31:30 But I have not given over my mouth to sin By asking for his life in a curse— 
Job31:31 If the men of my tent have not said, ‘Who can find one who has not been satisfied with his meat’—" 
Job31:32 The sojourner has not lodged outside, For I have opened my doors to the traveler—" 
Job31:33 If I have covered my transgressions like Adam, By hiding my iniquity in my bosom," 
Job31:34 Because I feared the great multitude, And the contempt of families terrified me, And I kept silent and did not go out of doors—" 
Job31:35 Oh that I had one to hear me! Behold, here is my signature; Let the Almighty answer me! And the indictment which my accuser has written," 
Job31:36 Surely I would carry it on my shoulder; I would bind it to myself like a crown. 
Job31:37 I would declare to Him the number of my steps; Like a prince I would approach Him— 
Job31:38 “If my land cries out against me, And its furrows weep together," 
Job31:39 If I have eaten its fruit without money, Or have caused its owners to lose their lives," 
Job31:40 Let briars come out instead of wheat, And stinkweed instead of barley.” The words of Job are ended." 
Job32:1 Then these three men ceased answering Job because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
Job32:2 But the anger of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, burned; against Job his anger burned because he was proving himself righteous before God." 
Job32:3 And his anger burned against his three friends because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job." 
Job32:4 Now Elihu had waited with his words for Job because they were years older than he. 
Job32:5 Then Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of the three men, so his anger burned." 
Job32:6 So Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, “I am young in years and you are old; Therefore I was shy and afraid to tell you my knowledge." 
Job32:7 I thought age should speak, And increased years should make wisdom known." 
Job32:8 But it is a spirit in man, And the breath of the Almighty gives them understanding." 
Job32:9 The abundant in years may not be wise, Nor may elders understand justice." 
Job32:10 So I say, ‘Listen to me, I too will tell my knowledge.’" 
Job32:11 “Behold, I waited for your words, I gave ear to your reasonings, While you searched out what to say." 
Job32:12 I even carefully considered you; And behold, there was no one who reproved Job, Not one of you who answered his words." 
Job32:13 Lest you say, ‘We have found wisdom; God will drive him away, not man.’" 
Job32:14 Now he has not arranged his words against me, Nor will I respond to him with your words." 
Job32:15 “They are dismayed; they no longer answer; Words have moved away from them. 
Job32:16 Shall I wait, because they do not speak, Because they stand still and no longer answer?" 
Job32:17 I myself will also answer my share; I also will tell my knowledge. 
Job32:18 For I am full of words; The spirit within my belly presses me. 
Job32:19 Behold, my belly is like unvented wine, not opened; Like new wineskins it is about to burst." 
Job32:20 Let me speak that I may get relief; Let me open my lips and answer. 
Job32:21 Let me now be partial to no one, Nor flatter any man." 
Job32:22 For I do not know how to flatter, Else my Maker would soon carry me away." 
Job33:1 “However now, Job, please hear my speech, And give ear to all my words." 
Job33:2 Behold now, I open my mouth; My tongue in my mouth speaks." 
Job33:3 My words are from the uprightness of my heart, And my lips speak knowledge sincerely." 
Job33:4 The Spirit of God has made me, And the breath of the Almighty gives me life." 
Job33:5 Respond to me if you can; Arrange yourselves before me, take your stand." 
Job33:6 Behold, I belong to God like you; I too have been formed out of the clay." 
Job33:7 Behold, no dread of me should terrify you, Nor should my pressure weigh heavily on you." 
Job33:8 “Surely you have spoken in my hearing, And I have heard the sound of your speech:" 
Job33:9 ‘I am pure, without transgression; I am innocent, and there is no guilt in me." 
Job33:10 Behold, He finds reasons for opposition against me; He counts me as His enemy." 
Job33:11 He puts my feet in the stocks; He keeps watch over all my paths.’ 
Job33:12 Behold, let me answer you; you are not right in this, For God is greater than mortal man." 
Job33:13 “Why do you contend against Him? For He does not give an answer for all His doings. 
Job33:14 Indeed God speaks once, Or twice, yet no one perceives it." 
Job33:15 In a dream, a vision of the night, When deep sleep falls on men, While they slumber in their beds," 
Job33:16 Then He opens the ears of men, And seals in their discipline," 
Job33:17 That He may turn man aside from his conduct, And keep man from pride;" 
Job33:18 He holds back his soul from the pit, And his life from passing over to death by a weapon." 
Job33:19 “Man is also reproved with pain on his bed, And with unceasing contention in his bones," 
Job33:20 So that his life loathes bread, And his soul favorite food." 
Job33:21 His flesh wastes away from sight, And his bones which were not seen stick out." 
Job33:22 Then his soul draws near to the pit, And his life to those who bring death." 
Job33:23 “If there is an angel as mediator for him, One out of a thousand, To declare to a man what is right for him," 
Job33:24 Then let him be gracious to him, and say, ‘Deliver him from going down to the pit; I have found atonement’;" 
Job33:25 Let his flesh become fresher than in youth, Let him return to the days of his youthful vigor;" 
Job33:26 Then he will entreat God, and He will accept him, And he will see His face with joyful shouts, And He may restore His righteousness to man." 
Job33:27 He will sing to men and say, ‘I have sinned and perverted what is right, But He has not done what is due to me." 
Job33:28 He has redeemed my soul from passing into the pit, And my life shall see the light.’" 
Job33:29 “Behold, God does all these things twice, three times with men," 
Job33:30 To bring back his soul from the pit, That he may be enlightened with the light of life." 
Job33:31 Pay attention, O Job, listen to me; Keep silent, and I will speak." 
Job33:32 Then if you have any speech, respond to me; Speak, for I desire to prove you righteous." 
Job33:33 If not, listen to me; Keep silent, and I will teach you wisdom.”" 
Job34:1 Then Elihu answered and said," 
Job34:2 “Hear my speech, you wise men, And give ear to me, you who know." 
Job34:3 For the ear tests words As the palate tastes food. 
Job34:4 Let us choose for ourselves what is just; Let us know among ourselves what is good. 
Job34:5 For Job has said, ‘I am righteous, But God has removed my justice;" 
Job34:6 Should I lie concerning my justice? My wound is incurable, though I am without transgression.’" 
Job34:7 What man is like Job, Who drinks up mocking like water," 
Job34:8 But he travels in company with the workers of iniquity, And walks with wicked men?" 
Job34:9 For he has said, ‘It is of no use to a man When he is pleased with God.’" 
Job34:10 “Therefore, listen to me, you men with a heart of wisdom. Far be it from God to do injustice, And from the Almighty to do wrong." 
Job34:11 For He pays a man according to his work, And makes him find it according to his way." 
Job34:12 Truly, God will not act wickedly, And the Almighty will not pervert justice." 
Job34:13 Who appointed Him with authority over the earth? And who has laid on Him the whole world? 
Job34:14 If He should set His heart on it, If He should gather to Himself His spirit and His breath," 
Job34:15 All flesh would breathe its last together, And man would return to dust." 
Job34:16 “But if you have understanding, hear this; Give ear to the sound of my speech." 
Job34:17 Shall one who hates justice rule? And will you condemn the righteous mighty One," 
Job34:18 Who says to a king, ‘Vile one,’ To nobles, ‘Wicked ones’;" 
Job34:19 Who shows no partiality to princes Nor recognizes the rich above the poor, For they all are the work of His hands?" 
Job34:20 In a moment they die, and at midnight People are shaken and pass away, And the mighty are taken away without a hand." 
Job34:21 “For His eyes are upon the ways of a man, And He sees all his steps." 
Job34:22 There is no darkness or shadow of death Where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves. 
Job34:23 For He does not need to consider a man further, That he should go before God in judgment." 
Job34:24 He breaks in pieces mighty men without searching anything out, And sets others in their place." 
Job34:25 Therefore He recognizes their labors, And He overthrows them in the night, And they are crushed." 
Job34:26 He strikes them like the wicked In a public place," 
Job34:27 Because they turned aside from following Him, And had no insight from any of His ways;" 
Job34:28 So that they caused the cry of the poor to come to Him, And that He might hear the cry of the afflicted." 
Job34:29 So if He keeps quiet, who then can condemn? So if He hides His face, who then can perceive Him? He is above both nation and man altogether," 
Job34:30 So that godless men would not rule Nor be snares of the people. 
Job34:31 “For has anyone said to God, ‘I have borne chastisement; I will not work destructively anymore;" 
Job34:32 Instruct me what I do not behold; If I have done injustice, I will not do it again’?" 
Job34:33 Shall He repay on your terms, because you have rejected it? For you must choose, and not I; Therefore say what you know." 
Job34:34 Men with a heart of wisdom will say to me, And a wise man who hears me," 
Job34:35 ‘Job speaks without knowledge, And his words are without insight." 
Job34:36 Job ought to be tested to the limit Because he answers like wicked men. 
Job34:37 For he adds transgression to his sin; He strikes his hands together among us, And multiplies his words against God.’”" 
Job35:1 Then Elihu answered and said," 
Job35:2 “Do you think this is according to justice? Do you say, ‘My righteousness is more than God’s’?" 
Job35:3 For you say, ‘What use will it be to You? What profit will I have, more than if I had sinned?’" 
Job35:4 I will respond to you, And your friends with you." 
Job35:5 Look at the heavens and see; And perceive the clouds—they are higher than you. 
Job35:6 If you have sinned, what do you accomplish against Him? And if your transgressions are many, what do you do to Him?" 
Job35:7 If you are righteous, what do you give to Him, Or what does He receive from your hand?" 
Job35:8 Your wickedness is for a man like yourself, And your righteousness is for a son of man." 
Job35:9 “Because of many oppressions they cry out; They cry for help because of the arm of many oppressors. 
Job35:10 But no one says, ‘Where is God my Maker, Who gives songs of praise in the night," 
Job35:11 Who teaches us more than the beasts of the earth And makes us wiser than the birds of the heavens?’ 
Job35:12 There they cry out, but He does not answer Because of the pride of evil men." 
Job35:13 Surely God will not listen to an empty cry, Nor will the Almighty perceive it." 
Job35:14 How much less when you say you do not perceive Him, The case is before Him, and you must wait for Him!" 
Job35:15 And now, because He has not visited in His anger, Nor has He acknowledged transgression well," 
Job35:16 So Job opens his mouth vainly; He multiplies words without knowledge.” 
Job36:1 Then Elihu continued and said," 
Job36:2 “Wait for me a little, and I will show you That there is yet more to be said in God’s behalf." 
Job36:3 I will take up my knowledge from afar, And I will ascribe righteousness to my Maker." 
Job36:4 For truly my words are not a lie; One who is perfect in knowledge is with you. 
Job36:5 Behold, God is mighty but does not reject; He is mighty in the power of His heart." 
Job36:6 He does not keep the wicked alive, But gives justice to the afflicted." 
Job36:7 He does not withdraw His eyes from the righteous; But with kings on the throne He has seated them forever, and they are exalted." 
Job36:8 And if they are bound in fetters, And are caught in the cords of affliction," 
Job36:9 Then He declares to them their work And their transgressions, that they have magnified themselves." 
Job36:10 He opens their ear to discipline, And says that they return from wickedness." 
Job36:11 If they hear and serve Him, They will end their days in prosperity And their years in pleasures." 
Job36:12 But if they do not hear, they shall pass away by a weapon And they will breathe their last without knowledge." 
Job36:13 But the godless in heart lay up anger; They do not cry for help when He binds them. 
Job36:14 They die in youth, And their life perishes among the cult prostitutes." 
Job36:15 He delivers the afflicted in their affliction, And opens their ear in time of oppression." 
Job36:16 Then indeed, He enticed you from the mouth of distress, Instead of it, a broad place with no constraint; And the comfort of your table full of fatness." 
Job36:17 “But you were full of judgment on the wicked; Judgment and justice take hold of you. 
Job36:18 Beware lest wrath entice you to scoffing; And do not let the greatness of the atonement turn you aside. 
Job36:19 Will your cries keep you from distress, Or all the forces of your power?" 
Job36:20 Do not long for the night, When people vanish in their place." 
Job36:21 Be careful, do not turn to wickedness, For you have chosen this to affliction." 
Job36:22 Behold, God is exalted in His power; Who is a teacher like Him?" 
Job36:23 Who has appointed Him His way, And who has said, ‘You have worked out unrighteousness’?" 
Job36:24 “Remember that you should exalt His work, Of which men have sung." 
Job36:25 All men have beheld it; Man looks from afar. 
Job36:26 Behold, God is exalted, and we do not know Him; The number of His years is unsearchable." 
Job36:27 For He draws up the drops of water, They distill rain for His stream," 
Job36:28 Which the clouds pour down, They drip upon man abundantly." 
Job36:29 Can anyone discern the spreading of the clouds, The thundering of His pavilion?" 
Job36:30 Behold, He spreads His lightning about Him, And He covers the depths of the sea." 
Job36:31 For by these He judges peoples; He gives food in abundance. 
Job36:32 He covers His hands with the lightning, And commands it to strike the mark." 
Job36:33 Its thundering declares about Him; The cattle also, concerning what is coming up." 
Job37:1 “At this also my heart trembles, And leaps from its place." 
Job37:2 Listen closely to the thunder of His voice, And the rumbling that goes out from His mouth." 
Job37:3 Under the whole heaven He lets it loose, And His lightning to the ends of the earth." 
Job37:4 After it, a voice roars; He thunders with His majestic voice, And He does not restrain the lightnings when His voice is heard." 
Job37:5 God thunders with His voice marvelously, Doing great things which we do not know." 
Job37:6 For to the snow He says, ‘Fall on the earth,’ And to the downpour of rain and the downpour of rains, ‘Be strong.’" 
Job37:7 He seals the hand of every man, That all men may know His work." 
Job37:8 Then the beast goes into its lair And dwells in its den. 
Job37:9 Out of the south comes the storm, And out of the north the cold." 
Job37:10 From the breath of God ice is made, And the expanse of the waters is frozen." 
Job37:11 Also with moisture He loads the thick cloud; He scatters the cloud of His lightning. 
Job37:12 It changes direction, turning around by His guidance, That it may do whatever He commands it On the face of the inhabited earth." 
Job37:13 Whether for correction, or for His world, Or for lovingkindness, He causes it to happen." 
Job37:14 “Give ear to this, O Job, Stand and carefully consider the wondrous deeds of God." 
Job37:15 Do you know how God establishes them, And makes the lightning of His cloud to shine?" 
Job37:16 Do you know about the layers of the thick clouds, The wonders of one perfect in knowledge," 
Job37:17 You whose garments are hot, When the land is quiet because of the south wind?" 
Job37:18 Can you, with Him, spread out the skies, Strong as a molten mirror?" 
Job37:19 Make us know what we shall say to Him; We cannot arrange our case because of darkness. 
Job37:20 Shall it be recounted to Him that I would speak? If a man says a word, will He indeed be swallowed up?" 
Job37:21 “So now men do not see the light which is bright in the skies; But the wind has passed and cleared them. 
Job37:22 Out of the north comes golden splendor; Around God is fearsome majesty. 
Job37:23 The Almighty—we cannot find Him; He is exalted in power And He will not afflict justice and abundant righteousness. 
Job37:24 Therefore men fear Him; He does not regard any who are wise of heart.” 
Job38:1 Then Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind and said," 
Job38:2 “Who is this that darkens counsel By words without knowledge? 
Job38:3 Now gird up your loins like a man, And I will ask you, and you make Me know!" 
Job38:4 Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell Me, if you know understanding," 
Job38:5 Who set its measurements? Since you know. Or who stretched the line on it? 
Job38:6 On what were its bases sunk? Or who laid its cornerstone," 
Job38:7 When the morning stars sang together And all the sons of God shouted for joy? 
Job38:8 “Or who enclosed the sea with doors When, bursting forth, it went out from the womb," 
Job38:9 When I made a cloud its garment And dense gloom its swaddling band," 
Job38:10 And I placed boundaries on it And set a bolt and doors," 
Job38:11 And I said, ‘Thus far you shall come, but no farther; And here shall your proud waves stop’?" 
Job38:12 “Have you ever in your life commanded the morning, And caused the dawn to know its place," 
Job38:13 That it might seize the ends of the earth, And the wicked be shaken out of it?" 
Job38:14 It is changed like clay under the seal; And they stand forth like clothing. 
Job38:15 From the wicked their light is withheld, And the arm raised high is broken." 
Job38:16 “Have you entered into the springs of the sea Or walked in the recesses of the deep? 
Job38:17 Have the gates of death been revealed to you, Or have you seen the gates of the shadow of death?" 
Job38:18 Have you carefully considered the expanse of the earth? Tell Me, if you know all this." 
Job38:19 “Where is the way to where the light dwells? And darkness, where is its place," 
Job38:20 That you may take it to its territory And that you may discern the paths to its home? 
Job38:21 You know, for you were born then, And the number of your days is great!" 
Job38:22 Have you entered the storehouses of the snow, Or have you seen the storehouses of the hail," 
Job38:23 Which I have reserved for the time of distress, For the day of war and battle?" 
Job38:24 Where is the way that the light is divided, Or the east wind scattered on the earth?" 
Job38:25 “Who has cleft a conduit for the flood, Or a way for the thunderbolt," 
Job38:26 To bring rain on a land without people, On a desert without a man in it," 
Job38:27 To satisfy the waste and desolate land And to make the growth of grass to sprout? 
Job38:28 Has the rain a father? Or who has begotten the drops of dew? 
Job38:29 From whose womb has come the ice? And the frost of heaven, who has given it birth?" 
Job38:30 Water becomes hard like stone, And the surface of the deep is interlocked." 
Job38:31 “Can you bind the chains of the Pleiades, Or loose the cords of Orion?" 
Job38:32 Can you lead forth a constellation in its season, And guide the Bear with her satellites?" 
Job38:33 Do you know the statutes of the heavens, Or fix their rule over the earth?" 
Job38:34 “Can you raise your voice up to the clouds, So that an abundance of water will cover you?" 
Job38:35 Can you send forth lightnings that they may go And say to you, ‘Here we are’?" 
Job38:36 Who has given wisdom in the innermost being Or given understanding to the mind? 
Job38:37 Who can count the clouds by wisdom, Or tip the water jars of the heavens," 
Job38:38 When the dust hardens into a mass And the clods stick together? 
Job38:39 “Can you hunt the prey for the lion, Or fulfill the appetite of the young lions," 
Job38:40 When they crouch in their dens And lie in wait in their lair? 
Job38:41 Who prepares for the raven its provision When its young cry for help to God And wander about without food? 
Job39:1 “Do you know the time the mountain goats give birth? Do you keep watch over the calving of the deer? 
Job39:2 Can you count the months they fulfill, Or do you know the time they give birth?" 
Job39:3 They kneel down; they bring forth their young; They send out their labor pains. 
Job39:4 Their children become strong; they grow up in the open field; They leave and do not return to them. 
Job39:5 “Who sent out the wild donkey free? And who loosed the bonds of the swift donkey," 
Job39:6 For whom I have set the desert plain as a home And the salt land as his dwelling place? 
Job39:7 He laughs at the tumult of the city; The shoutings of the driver he does not hear. 
Job39:8 He explores the mountains for his pasture And searches after every green thing. 
Job39:9 Will the wild ox consent to serve you, Or will he spend the night at your manger?" 
Job39:10 Can you bind the wild ox in a furrow with ropes, Or will he harrow the valleys after you?" 
Job39:11 Will you trust him because his power is great And leave your labor to him? 
Job39:12 Will you believe him that he will return your seed of grain And gather it from your threshing floor? 
Job39:13 “The ostriches’ wings flap joyously But are they the pinion and plumage of a stork? 
Job39:14 For she leaves her eggs to the earth And warms them in the dust," 
Job39:15 And she forgets that a foot may crush them, Or that a beast of the field may trample them." 
Job39:16 She treats her children cruelly, as if they were not hers; Though her labor be empty, she is without dread," 
Job39:17 Because God has made her forget wisdom, And has not given her a share of understanding." 
Job39:18 When she raises herself up high, She laughs at the horse and his rider." 
Job39:19 “Do you give the horse his might? Do you clothe his neck with a mane? 
Job39:20 Do you make him leap like the locust? His splendid snorting is terrible. 
Job39:21 He paws in the valley and rejoices in his power; He goes out to meet the weapons. 
Job39:22 He laughs at dread and is not dismayed; And he does not turn back from the sword. 
Job39:23 The quiver rattles against him, The flashing spear and javelin." 
Job39:24 With shaking and rage he races over the ground, And he does not stand still at the sound of the trumpet." 
Job39:25 As often as the trumpet sounds he says, ‘Aha!’ And he scents the battle from afar, And the thunder of the commanders and the shout of war." 
Job39:26 “Is it by your understanding that the hawk soars, Stretching his wings toward the south?" 
Job39:27 Is it at your command that the eagle goes on high And raises his nest high? 
Job39:28 On the cliff he dwells and lodges, Upon the rocky crag, a fortress." 
Job39:29 From there he spies out food; His eyes see it from afar. 
Job39:30 His young ones also suck up blood; And where the slain are, there is he.”" 
Job40:1 Then Yahweh answered Job and said," 
Job40:2 “Will the faultfinder contend with the Almighty? Let him who reproves God answer it.” 
Job40:3 Then Job answered Yahweh and said," 
Job40:4 “Behold, I am insignificant; what can I respond to You? I place my hand over my mouth." 
Job40:5 Once I have spoken, and I will not answer; Even twice, and I will add nothing more.”" 
Job40:6 Then Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind and said," 
Job40:7 “Now gird up your loins like a man; I will ask you, and you make Me know." 
Job40:8 Will you really annul My judgment? Will you condemn Me that you may be justified? 
Job40:9 Or do you have an arm like God, And can you thunder with a voice like His?" 
Job40:10 “Adorn yourself with exaltation and loftiness, And clothe yourself with splendor and majesty." 
Job40:11 Pour out the overflowings of your anger, And look on everyone who is proud, and make him low." 
Job40:12 Look on everyone who is proud, and humble him, And tread down the wicked in their place." 
Job40:13 Hide them in the dust together; Bind their faces in the hidden place. 
Job40:14 Then I will also praise you, That your own right hand can save you." 
Job40:15 “Behold now, Behemoth, which I made along with you; It eats grass like an ox." 
Job40:16 Behold now, its power in its loins And its vigor in the muscles of its belly." 
Job40:17 It hangs its tail like a cedar; The sinews of its thighs are knit together. 
Job40:18 Its bones are tubes of bronze; Its limbs are like bars of iron. 
Job40:19 “It is the first of the ways of God; Let its Maker bring near its sword. 
Job40:20 Surely the mountains bring it food, And all the beasts of the field play there." 
Job40:21 Under the lotus plants it lies down, In the hidden place of the reeds and the marsh." 
Job40:22 The lotus plants cover it with shade; The willows of the brook surround it. 
Job40:23 If a river oppresses, it is not alarmed; It is secure, though the Jordan bursts forth to its mouth." 
Job40:24 Can anyone capture it before its eyes, With snares can anyone pierce its nose?" 
Job41:1 “Can you draw out Leviathan with a fishhook? Or press down its tongue with a cord? 
Job41:2 Can you put a rope in its nose Or pierce its jaw with a hook? 
Job41:3 Will it make many supplications to you, Or will he speak to you soft words?" 
Job41:4 Will it cut a covenant with you? Will you take it for a slave forever? 
Job41:5 Will you play with it as with a bird, Or will you bind it for your young women?" 
Job41:6 Will the traders bargain over it? Will they divide it among the merchants? 
Job41:7 Can you fill its skin with harpoons, Or its head with fishing spears?" 
Job41:8 Place your hand on it; Remember the battle; you will not do that again! 
Job41:9 Behold, his expectation is a lie; Will he be laid low even at the sight of it?" 
Job41:10 No one is so fierce that he dares to arouse it; Who then is he that can stand before Me? 
Job41:11 Who has given to Me that I should repay him? Whatever is under the whole heaven is Mine. 
Job41:12 “I will not keep silence concerning its limbs, Or its mighty strength or its graceful frame." 
Job41:13 Who can strip off its outer armor? Who can come with its doubled bridle? 
Job41:14 Who can open the doors of its face? Around its teeth there is dreadful terror. 
Job41:15 Its strong scales are its pride, Shut up as with a tight seal." 
Job41:16 One is so near to another That no air can come between them. 
Job41:17 They cling one to another; They are interlocked and cannot be separated. 
Job41:18 Its sneezes flash forth light, And its eyes are like the eyelids of the morning." 
Job41:19 Out of its mouth go burning torches; Sparks of fire leap forth. 
Job41:20 Out of its nostrils smoke goes forth As from a boiling pot and burning reeds. 
Job41:21 Its breath kindles coals, And a flame goes forth from its mouth." 
Job41:22 In its neck lodges strength, And dismay leaps before it." 
Job41:23 The folds of its flesh cling together, Hardened upon it and is not shaken." 
Job41:24 Its heart is as hard as a stone, Even as hard as a lower millstone." 
Job41:25 When it raises itself up, the mighty fear, Because of the crashing they are bewildered." 
Job41:26 The sword that reaches it cannot avail, Nor the spear, the dart, or the javelin." 
Job41:27 It regards iron as straw, Bronze as rotten wood." 
Job41:28 The arrow cannot make it flee; Slingstones are turned into stubble for it. 
Job41:29 Clubs are regarded as stubble; It laughs at the rattling of the javelin. 
Job41:30 Its underparts are like sharp potsherds; It spreads out like a threshing sledge on the mire. 
Job41:31 It makes the depths boil like a pot; It makes the sea like a jar of ointment. 
Job41:32 Behind it, it makes a wake to shine; One would think the deep to be gray‑haired." 
Job41:33 There is nothing upon the dust like it, One made without terror." 
Job41:34 It looks on everything that is high; It is king over all the sons of pride.” 
Job42:1 Then Job answered Yahweh and said," 
Job42:2 “I know that You can do all things, And that no purpose of Yours can be thwarted." 
Job42:3 ‘Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge?’ Therefore I have declared that which I did not understand, Things too marvelous for me, which I did not know." 
Job42:4 ‘Hear, now, and I will speak; I will ask You, and You make me know.’" 
Job42:5 I have heard of You by the hearing of the ear; But now my eye sees You; 
Job42:6 Therefore I reject myself, And I repent in dust and ashes.”" 
Job42:7 Now it happened after Yahweh had spoken these words to Job, that Yahweh said to Eliphaz the Temanite, “My anger burns against you and against your two friends because you have not spoken of Me what is right as My servant Job has." 
Job42:8 So now, take for yourselves seven bulls and seven rams, and go to My servant Job, and offer up a burnt offering for yourselves, and My servant Job will pray for you. For I will accept him so that I may not do with you according to your folly, because you have not spoken of Me what is right, as My servant Job has.”" 
Job42:9 So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did as Yahweh told them; and Yahweh accepted Job. 
Job42:10 And Yahweh restored the fortunes of Job when he prayed for his friends, and Yahweh increased all that Job had twofold." 
Job42:11 Then all his brothers and all his sisters and all who had known him before came to him, and they ate bread with him in his house; and they consoled him and comforted him for all the calamity that Yahweh had brought on him. And each one gave him one qesitah, and each a ring of gold." 
Job42:12 And Yahweh blessed the latter days of Job more than his beginning; and he had 14,000 sheep and 6,000 camels and 1,000 pairs of oxen and 1,000 female donkeys." 
Job42:13 He also had seven sons and three daughters. 
Job42:14 And he named the first Jemimah and the second Keziah and the third Keren-happuch. 
Job42:15 Now in all the land no women were found so beautiful as Job’s daughters; and their father gave them inheritance among their brothers. 
Job42:16 And after this, Job lived 140 years and saw his sons and his grandsons, four generations." 
Job42:17 Then Job died, an old man and full of days." 
Psalms1:1 How blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, Nor stand in the way of sinners, Nor sit in the seat of scoffers!" 
Psalms1:2 But his delight is in the law of Yahweh, And in His law he meditates day and night." 
Psalms1:3 And he will be like a tree firmly planted by streams of water, Which yields its fruit in its season And its leaf does not wither; And in whatever he does, he prospers." 
Psalms1:4 The wicked are not so, But they are like chaff which the wind drives away." 
Psalms1:5 Therefore the wicked will not rise in the judgment, Nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous." 
Psalms1:6 For Yahweh knows the way of the righteous, But the way of the wicked will perish." 
Psalms2:1 Why do the nations rage And the peoples meditate on a vain thing? 
Psalms2:2 The kings of the earth take their stand And the rulers take counsel together Against Yahweh and against His Anointed, saying," 
Psalms2:3 “Let us tear their fetters apart And cast away their cords from us!” 
Psalms2:4 He who sits in the heavens laughs, The Lord mocks them." 
Psalms2:5 Then He speaks to them in His anger And terrifies them in His fury, saying," 
Psalms2:6 “But as for Me, I have installed My King Upon Zion, My holy mountain.”" 
Psalms2:7 “I will surely tell of the decree of Yahweh: He said to Me, ‘You are My Son, Today I have begotten You." 
Psalms2:8 Ask of Me, and I will surely give the nations as Your inheritance, And the ends of the earth as Your possession." 
Psalms2:9 You shall break them with a rod of iron, You shall shatter them like a potter’s vessel.’”" 
Psalms2:10 So now, O kings, show insight; Take warning, O judges of the earth." 
Psalms2:11 Serve Yahweh with fear And rejoice with trembling. 
Psalms2:12 Kiss the Son, lest He become angry, and you perish in the way, For His wrath may soon be kindled. How blessed are all who take refuge in Him!" 
Psalms3:1 A Psalm of David. When he fled from Absalom his son. O Yahweh, how my adversaries have become many! Many are rising up against me." 
Psalms3:2 Many are saying of my soul, “There is no salvation for him in God.” Selah." 
Psalms3:3 But You, O Yahweh, are a shield about me, My glory, and the One who lifts my head." 
Psalms3:4 I was calling to Yahweh with my voice, And He answered me from His holy mountain. Selah." 
Psalms3:5 I lay down and slept; I awoke, for Yahweh sustains me." 
Psalms3:6 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people Who all around have set themselves against me. 
Psalms3:7 Arise, O Yahweh; save me, O my God! For You have struck all my enemies on the cheek; You have shattered the teeth of the wicked." 
Psalms3:8 Salvation belongs to Yahweh; Your blessing be upon Your people! Selah. 
Psalms4:1 For the choir director. With stringed instruments. A Psalm of David. Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness! You have relieved me in my distress; Be gracious to me and hear my prayer." 
Psalms4:2 O sons of men, how long will my glory become a reproach? How long will you love what is worthless and seek falsehood? Selah." 
Psalms4:3 But know that Yahweh has set apart the holy one for Himself; Yahweh hears when I call to Him. 
Psalms4:4 Tremble, and do not sin; Ponder in your heart upon your bed, and be still. Selah." 
Psalms4:5 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, And trust in Yahweh." 
Psalms4:6 Many are saying, “Who will show us good?” Lift up the light of Your face upon us, O Yahweh!" 
Psalms4:7 You have put gladness in my heart, More than when their grain and new wine abound." 
Psalms4:8 In peace I will both lie down and sleep, For You alone, O Yahweh, make me to abide in safety." 
Psalms5:1 For the choir director. For the flutes. A Psalm of David. Give ear to my words, O Yahweh, Consider my meditation." 
Psalms5:2 Give heed to the sound of my cry for help, my King and my God, For to You I pray." 
Psalms5:3 O Yahweh, in the morning, You will hear my voice; In the morning I will order my prayer to You and eagerly watch." 
Psalms5:4 For You are not a God who delights in wickedness; Evil does not sojourn with You. 
Psalms5:5 The boastful shall not stand before Your eyes; You hate all workers of iniquity. 
Psalms5:6 You destroy those who speak falsehood; Yahweh abhors the man of bloodshed and deceit. 
Psalms5:7 But as for me, in the abundance of Your lovingkindness I will enter Your house, At Your holy temple I will worship in fear of You." 
Psalms5:8 O Yahweh, lead me in Your righteousness because of my foes; Make Your way straight before me." 
Psalms5:9 There is nothing reliable in their mouth; Their inward part is destruction itself. Their throat is an open grave; They flatter with their tongue. 
Psalms5:10 Hold them guilty, O God; By their own devices let them fall! In the abundance of their transgressions thrust them out, For they are rebellious against You." 
Psalms5:11 But let all who take refuge in You be glad, Let them ever sing for joy; And may You shelter them, That those who love Your name may exult in You." 
Psalms5:12 For it is You who blesses the righteous one, O Yahweh, You surround him with favor as with a large shield." 
Psalms6:1 For the choir director. With stringed instruments. According to the Sheminith. A Psalm of David. O Yahweh, do not reprove me in Your anger, Nor discipline me in Your wrath." 
Psalms6:2 Be gracious to me, O Yahweh, for I am pining away; Heal me, O Yahweh, for my bones are dismayed." 
Psalms6:3 And my soul is greatly dismayed; But You, O Yahweh—how long?" 
Psalms6:4 Return, O Yahweh, rescue my soul; Save me because of Your lovingkindness." 
Psalms6:5 For there is no remembrance of You in death; In Sheol who will give You thanks? 
Psalms6:6 I am weary with my sighing; Every night I make my bed swim, I flood my couch with my tears." 
Psalms6:7 My eye has wasted away with grief; It has become old because of all my adversaries. 
Psalms6:8 Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity, For Yahweh has heard the sound of my weeping." 
Psalms6:9 Yahweh has heard my supplication, Yahweh receives my prayer." 
Psalms6:10 All my enemies will be ashamed and greatly dismayed; They shall turn back, they will suddenly be ashamed." 
Psalms7:1 A Shiggaion of David, which he sang to Yahweh concerning the words of Cush, a Benjamite. O Yahweh my God, in You I have taken refuge; Save me from all those who pursue me, and deliver me," 
Psalms7:2 Lest he tear my soul like a lion, Rending me in pieces, while there is none to deliver." 
Psalms7:3 O Yahweh my God, if I have done this, If there is injustice in my hands," 
Psalms7:4 If I have rewarded evil to him who is at peace with me, Or have plundered my adversary without cause," 
Psalms7:5 Let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it; And let him trample my life down to the ground And cause my glory to dwell in the dust. Selah. 
Psalms7:6 Arise, O Yahweh, in Your anger; Lift up Yourself against the fury of my adversaries, And arouse Yourself for me; You have appointed judgment." 
Psalms7:7 Let the congregation of the peoples encompass You, And over them return on high." 
Psalms7:8 Yahweh judges the peoples; Give justice to me, O Yahweh, according to my righteousness and my integrity that is in me." 
Psalms7:9 O let the evil of the wicked come to an end, but establish the righteous; For the righteous God tests the hearts and minds." 
Psalms7:10 My shield is with God, Who saves the upright in heart." 
Psalms7:11 God is a righteous judge, And a God who has indignation every day." 
Psalms7:12 If a man does not repent, He will sharpen His sword; He has bent His bow and prepared it." 
Psalms7:13 He has also prepared for Himself deadly weapons; He makes His arrows fiery shafts. 
Psalms7:14 Behold, he travails with wickedness, And he conceives mischief and gives birth to falsehood." 
Psalms7:15 He has dug a pit and hollowed it out, And has fallen into the hole which he made." 
Psalms7:16 His mischief will return upon his own head, And his violence will descend upon his own skull." 
Psalms7:17 I will give thanks to Yahweh according to His righteousness And will sing praise to the name of Yahweh Most High. 
Psalms8:1 For the choir director. According to the Gittith. A Psalm of David. O Yahweh, our Lord, How majestic is Your name in all the earth, Who displays Your splendor above the heavens!" 
Psalms8:2 From the mouth of infants and nursing babies You have established strength Because of Your adversaries, To make the enemy and the revengeful cease." 
Psalms8:3 When I see Your heavens, the work of Your fingers, The moon and the stars, which You have established;" 
Psalms8:4 What is man that You remember him, And the son of man that You care for him?" 
Psalms8:5 Yet You have made him a little lower than the angels, And You crown him with glory and majesty!" 
Psalms8:6 You make him to rule over the works of Your hands; You have put all things under his feet," 
Psalms8:7 All sheep and oxen, And also the animals of the field," 
Psalms8:8 The birds of the heavens and the fish of the sea, Whatever passes through the paths of the seas." 
Psalms8:9 O Yahweh, our Lord, How majestic is Your name in all the earth!" 
Psalms9:1 For the choir director. Almuth-labben. A Psalm of David. I will give thanks to Yahweh with all my heart; I will recount all Your wondrous deeds. 
Psalms9:2 I will be glad and exult in You; I will sing praise to Your name, O Most High." 
Psalms9:3 When my enemies turn back, They stumble and perish before You." 
Psalms9:4 For You have maintained my justice and my cause; You have sat on the throne judging righteously. 
Psalms9:5 You have rebuked the nations, You have made the wicked perish; You have blotted out their name forever and ever." 
Psalms9:6 The enemy has come to an end in perpetual ruins, And You have uprooted the cities; The very memory of them has perished." 
Psalms9:7 But Yahweh abides forever; He has established His throne for judgment," 
Psalms9:8 And He will judge the world in righteousness; He will render justice for the peoples with equity. 
Psalms9:9 Yahweh also will be a stronghold for the oppressed, A stronghold in times of distress;" 
Psalms9:10 And those who know Your name will put their trust in You, For You, O Yahweh, have not forsaken those who seek You." 
Psalms9:11 Sing praises to Yahweh, who abides in Zion; Declare among the peoples His acts." 
Psalms9:12 For He who requires blood remembers them; He does not forget the cry of the afflicted. 
Psalms9:13 Be gracious to me, O Yahweh; See my affliction from those who hate me, You who lift me up from the gates of death," 
Psalms9:14 That I may recount all Your praises, That in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in Your salvation." 
Psalms9:15 The nations have sunk down in the pit which they have made; In the net which they hid, their own foot has been caught." 
Psalms9:16 Yahweh has made Himself known; He has executed judgment. In the work of his own hands the wicked is snared. Higgaion Selah. 
Psalms9:17 The wicked will return to Sheol, Even all the nations who forget God." 
Psalms9:18 For the needy will not always be forgotten, Nor the hope of the afflicted perish forever." 
Psalms9:19 Arise, O Yahweh, do not let man prevail; Let the nations be judged before You." 
Psalms9:20 Put them in fear, O Yahweh; Let the nations know that they are but men. Selah." 
Psalms10:1 Why do You stand afar off, O Yahweh? Why do You hide Yourself in times of distress?" 
Psalms10:2 In his lofty pride the wicked hotly pursues the afflicted; Let them be caught in the thoughts which they have devised. 
Psalms10:3 For the wicked boasts of his soul’s desire, And the greedy man curses and spurns Yahweh." 
Psalms10:4 The wicked, in the haughtiness of his countenance, does not seek Him. All his thoughts are, “There is no God.”" 
Psalms10:5 His ways prosper at all times; Your judgments are on high, out of his sight; As for all his adversaries, he snorts at them." 
Psalms10:6 He says in his heart, “I will not be shaken; From generation to generation I will not be in adversity.”" 
Psalms10:7 His mouth is full of curses and deceit and oppression; Under his tongue is mischief and wickedness. 
Psalms10:8 He sits in the places of the villages where one lies in wait; In the hiding places he kills the innocent; His eyes stealthily watch for the unfortunate. 
Psalms10:9 He lies in wait in a hiding place as a lion in his lair; He lies in wait to catch the afflicted; He catches the afflicted when he draws him into his net. 
Psalms10:10 He crouches, he bows down, And the unfortunate fall by his mighty ones." 
Psalms10:11 He says in his heart, “God has forgotten; He has hidden His face; He will never see it.”" 
Psalms10:12 Arise, O Yahweh; O God, lift up Your hand. Do not forget the afflicted." 
Psalms10:13 Why has the wicked spurned God? He has said in his heart, “You will not require it.”" 
Psalms10:14 You have seen it, for You have beheld mischief and vexation to take it into Your hand. The unfortunate commits himself to You; You have been the helper of the orphan." 
Psalms10:15 Break the arm of the wicked and the evildoer, Seek out his wickedness until You find none." 
Psalms10:16 Yahweh is King forever and ever; Nations have perished from His land. 
Psalms10:17 O Yahweh, You have heard the desire of the humble; You will strengthen their heart, You will cause Your ear to give heed" 
Psalms10:18 To give justice to the orphan and the oppressed, So that man who is of the earth will no longer cause terror." 
Psalms11:1 For the choir director. Of David. In Yahweh I take refuge; How can you say to my soul, “Flee as a bird to your mountain;" 
Psalms11:2 For, behold, the wicked bend the bow, They make ready their arrow upon the string To shoot in darkness at the upright in heart." 
Psalms11:3 If the foundations are destroyed, What can the righteous do?”" 
Psalms11:4 Yahweh is in His holy temple; Yahweh’s throne is in heaven; His eyes behold, His eyelids test the sons of men." 
Psalms11:5 Yahweh tests the righteous, But the wicked and the one who loves violence His soul hates." 
Psalms11:6 May He rain snares upon the wicked; Fire and brimstone and burning wind will be the portion of their cup. 
Psalms11:7 For Yahweh is righteous, He loves righteousness; The upright will behold His face." 
Psalms12:1 For the choir director. According to the Sheminith. A Psalm of David. Save, O Yahweh, for the holy man ceases to be, For the faithful disappear from among the sons of men." 
Psalms12:2 They speak worthlessness to one another; With a flattering lip and with a double heart they speak. 
Psalms12:3 May Yahweh cut off all flattering lips, The tongue that speaks great things;" 
Psalms12:4 Who have said, “With our tongue we will prevail; Our lips are our own; who is lord over us?”" 
Psalms12:5 “Because of the devastation of the afflicted, because of the groaning of the needy, Now I will arise,” says Yahweh; “I will set him in the safety for which he longs.”" 
Psalms12:6 The words of Yahweh are pure words; As silver tried in a furnace on the ground, refined seven times." 
Psalms12:7 You, O Yahweh, will keep them; You will guard him from this generation forever." 
Psalms12:8 The wicked strut about on every side When vileness is exalted among the sons of men. 
Psalms13:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. How long, O Yahweh? Will You forget me forever? How long will You hide Your face from me?" 
Psalms13:2 How long shall I take counsel in my soul, Having sorrow in my heart all the day? How long will my enemy be exalted over me?" 
Psalms13:3 Look and answer me, O Yahweh my God; Give light to my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death," 
Psalms13:4 Lest my enemy says, “I have overcome him,” And my adversaries rejoice that I am shaken." 
Psalms13:5 But I have trusted in Your lovingkindness; My heart shall rejoice in Your salvation. 
Psalms13:6 I will sing to Yahweh, Because He has dealt bountifully with me." 
Psalms14:1 For the choir director. Of David. The wicked fool says in his heart, “There is no God.” They act corruptly, they commit abominable deeds; There is no one who does good." 
Psalms14:2 Yahweh looks down from heaven upon the sons of men To see if there is anyone who has insight, Anyone who seeks after God." 
Psalms14:3 They have all turned aside, altogether they have become worthless; There is no one who does good, not even one." 
Psalms14:4 Do all the workers of iniquity not know, Who eat up my people as they eat bread, And do not call upon Yahweh?" 
Psalms14:5 There they are in great dread, For God is with the righteous generation." 
Psalms14:6 You would put to shame the counsel of the afflicted, But Yahweh is his refuge." 
Psalms14:7 Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When Yahweh restores His captive people, May Jacob rejoice, may Israel be glad." 
Psalms15:1 A Psalm of David. O Yahweh, who may sojourn in Your tent? Who may dwell on Your holy mountain?" 
Psalms15:2 He who walks blamelessly, and works righteousness, And speaks truth in his heart." 
Psalms15:3 He does not slander with his tongue, Nor does evil to his neighbor, Nor takes up a reproach against his friend;" 
Psalms15:4 In whose eyes a reprobate is despised, But who honors those who fear Yahweh; He swears to his own hurt and does not change;" 
Psalms15:5 He does not put out his money at interest, Nor does he take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things will never be shaken." 
Psalms16:1 A Mikhtam of David. Keep me, O God, for I take refuge in You." 
Psalms16:2 O my soul, you have said to Yahweh, “You are my Lord; I have no good without You.”" 
Psalms16:3 As for the saints who are in the earth, They are the majestic ones in whom is all my delight." 
Psalms16:4 The pains of those who have bartered for another god will be multiplied; I shall not pour out their drink offerings of blood, Nor will I take their names upon my lips." 
Psalms16:5 Yahweh is the portion of my inheritance and my cup; You support my lot. 
Psalms16:6 The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places; Indeed, my inheritance is beautiful to me." 
Psalms16:7 I will bless Yahweh who has counseled me; Indeed, my mind instructs me in the night." 
Psalms16:8 I have set Yahweh continually before me; Because He is at my right hand, I will not be shaken." 
Psalms16:9 Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoices; My flesh also will dwell securely. 
Psalms16:10 For You will not forsake my soul to Sheol; You will not give Your Holy One over to see corruption. 
Psalms16:11 You will make known to me the path of life; In Your presence is fullness of joy; In Your right hand there are pleasures forever. 
Psalms17:1 A Prayer of David. Hear a righteous cause, O Yahweh, give heed to my cry of lamentation; Give ear to my prayer, which is not from deceitful lips." 
Psalms17:2 May my judgment come from Your presence; May Your eyes behold what is upright. 
Psalms17:3 You have tested my heart; You have visited me by night; You have tried me and You find nothing; I have purposed that my mouth will not transgress. 
Psalms17:4 As for the deeds of men, by the word of Your lips I have kept from the paths of the violent." 
Psalms17:5 My steps have held fast to Your paths. My footsteps have not stumbled. 
Psalms17:6 I have called upon You, for You will answer me, O God; Incline Your ear to me, hear my speech." 
Psalms17:7 Marvelously show Your lovingkindnesses, O Savior of those who take refuge at Your right hand From those who rise up against them." 
Psalms17:8 Keep me as the apple of the eye; Hide me in the shadow of Your wings 
Psalms17:9 From the wicked who devastate me, My deadly enemies who surround me." 
Psalms17:10 They have closed their unfeeling heart, With their mouth they speak proudly." 
Psalms17:11 They have now surrounded us in our steps; They set their eyes to cast us down to the ground. 
Psalms17:12 He is like a lion that is eager to tear, And as a young lion lurking in hiding places." 
Psalms17:13 Arise, O Yahweh, confront him, bring him low; Protect my soul from the wicked with Your sword," 
Psalms17:14 From men with Your hand, O Yahweh, From men of the world, whose portion is in this life, And whose belly You fill with Your treasure; They are satisfied with children, And leave their excess to their infants." 
Psalms17:15 As for me, I shall behold Your face in righteousness; I will be satisfied with Your likeness when I awake." 
Psalms18:1 For the choir director. Of the servant of Yahweh, of David, who spoke to Yahweh the words of this song in the day that Yahweh delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. He said, “I love You, O Yahweh, my strength.”" 
Psalms18:2 Yahweh is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, My God, my rock, in whom I take refuge; My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold." 
Psalms18:3 I call upon Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised, And I am saved from my enemies." 
Psalms18:4 The cords of death encompassed me, And the torrents of vileness terrified me." 
Psalms18:5 The cords of Sheol surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me. 
Psalms18:6 In my distress I called upon Yahweh, And cried to my God for help; He heard my voice out of His temple, And my cry for help before Him came into His ears." 
Psalms18:7 Then the earth shook and quaked; And the foundations of the mountains were trembling And were shaken, because He was angry." 
Psalms18:8 Smoke went up out of His nostrils, And fire from His mouth devoured; Coals were kindled by it." 
Psalms18:9 He bowed the heavens and came down With thick darkness under His feet. 
Psalms18:10 He rode upon a cherub and flew; And He sped upon the wings of the wind. 
Psalms18:11 He made darkness His hiding place, His canopy around Him, Darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies." 
Psalms18:12 From the brightness before Him passed His thick clouds, Hailstones and coals of fire." 
Psalms18:13 Yahweh also thundered in the heavens, And the Most High gave forth His voice, Hailstones and coals of fire." 
Psalms18:14 He sent out His arrows, and scattered them, And lightning flashes in abundance, and threw them into confusion." 
Psalms18:15 Then the channels of water appeared, And the foundations of the world were laid bare At Your rebuke, O Yahweh, At the blast of the breath of Your nostrils." 
Psalms18:16 He sent from on high, He took me; He drew me out of many waters." 
Psalms18:17 He delivered me from my strong enemy, And from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me." 
Psalms18:18 They confronted me in the day of my disaster, But Yahweh was my support." 
Psalms18:19 He brought me forth also into a broad place; He rescued me, because He delighted in me." 
Psalms18:20 Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands He has recompensed me. 
Psalms18:21 For I have kept the ways of Yahweh, And have not wickedly departed from my God." 
Psalms18:22 For all His judgments were before me, And I did not put away His statutes from me." 
Psalms18:23 I was also blameless with Him, And I kept myself from my iniquity." 
Psalms18:24 Therefore Yahweh has recompensed me according to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands before His eyes." 
Psalms18:25 With the kind You show Yourself kind; With the blameless You show Yourself blameless; 
Psalms18:26 With the pure You show Yourself pure, And with the crooked You show Yourself astute." 
Psalms18:27 For You save an afflicted people, But eyes which are lifted up, You bring down." 
Psalms18:28 For You light my lamp; Yahweh my God illumines my darkness. 
Psalms18:29 For by You I can run upon a troop; And by my God I can leap over a wall. 
Psalms18:30 As for God, His way is blameless; The word of Yahweh is tried; He is a shield to all who take refuge in Him." 
Psalms18:31 For who is God, but Yahweh? And who is a rock, except our God," 
Psalms18:32 The God who girds me with strength And makes my way blameless? 
Psalms18:33 He makes my feet like hinds’ feet, And sets me upon my high places." 
Psalms18:34 He trains my hands for battle, So that my arms can bend a bow of bronze." 
Psalms18:35 You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, And Your right hand upholds me; And Your gentleness makes me great." 
Psalms18:36 You enlarge my steps under me, And my ankles have not given way." 
Psalms18:37 I pursued my enemies and overtook them, And I did not turn back until they were consumed." 
Psalms18:38 I crushed them, so that they were not able to rise; They fell under my feet." 
Psalms18:39 For You have girded me with strength for battle; You have subdued under me those who rose up against me. 
Psalms18:40 You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, And I destroyed those who hated me." 
Psalms18:41 They cried for help, but there was none to save, Even to Yahweh, but He did not answer them." 
Psalms18:42 Then I beat them fine as the dust before the wind; I emptied them out as the mire of the streets. 
Psalms18:43 You have delivered me from the contentions of the people; You have placed me as head of the nations; A people whom I have not known serve me. 
Psalms18:44 As soon as they hear, they obey me; Foreigners cower before me." 
Psalms18:45 Foreigners fade away, And come trembling out of their fortresses." 
Psalms18:46 Yahweh lives, and blessed be my rock; And let the God of my salvation be lifted high," 
Psalms18:47 The God who executes vengeance for me, And subdues peoples under me." 
Psalms18:48 Who delivers me from my enemies; Surely You lift me above those who rise up against me; You rescue me from the violent man. 
Psalms18:49 Therefore I will give thanks to You among the nations, O Yahweh, And I will sing praises to Your name." 
Psalms18:50 He gives great salvation to His king, And shows lovingkindness to His anointed, To David and his seed forever." 
Psalms19:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. The heavens are telling of the glory of God; And the expanse is declaring the work of His hands. 
Psalms19:2 Day to day pours forth speech, And night to night reveals knowledge." 
Psalms19:3 There is no speech, nor are there words; Their voice is not heard." 
Psalms19:4 Their line has gone out through all the earth, And their utterances to the end of the world. In them He has placed a tent for the sun," 
Psalms19:5 Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber; It rejoices as a strong man to run his course. 
Psalms19:6 Its rising is from one end of the heavens, And its circuit to the other end of them; And there is nothing hidden from its heat." 
Psalms19:7 The law of Yahweh is perfect, restoring the soul; The testimony of Yahweh is sure, making wise the simple." 
Psalms19:8 The precepts of Yahweh are right, rejoicing the heart; The commandment of Yahweh is pure, enlightening the eyes." 
Psalms19:9 The fear of Yahweh is clean, enduring forever; The judgments of Yahweh are true; they are righteous altogether." 
Psalms19:10 They are more desirable than gold, even more than much fine gold; Sweeter also than honey and the drippings of the honeycomb." 
Psalms19:11 Moreover, by them Your slave is warned; In keeping them there is great reward." 
Psalms19:12 Who can discern his errors? Acquit me of hidden faults. 
Psalms19:13 Also keep back Your slave from presumptuous sins; Let them not rule over me; Then I will be blameless, And I shall be acquitted of great transgression." 
Psalms19:14 Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in Your sight, O Yahweh, my rock and my Redeemer." 
Psalms20:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. May Yahweh answer you in the day of distress! May the name of the God of Jacob set you securely on high! 
Psalms20:2 May He send you help from the sanctuary And uphold you from Zion! 
Psalms20:3 May He remember all your meal offerings And find your burnt offering acceptable! Selah. 
Psalms20:4 May He grant you your heart’s desire And fulfill all your counsel! 
Psalms20:5 We will sing for joy over your salvation, And in the name of our God we will set up our banners. May Yahweh fulfill all your petitions." 
Psalms20:6 Now I know that Yahweh saves His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven With the saving might of His right hand. 
Psalms20:7 Some boast in chariots and some in horses, But we will boast in the name of Yahweh, our God." 
Psalms20:8 They have bowed down and fallen, But we have risen and stood upright." 
Psalms20:9 Save, O Yahweh; May the King answer us in the day we call." 
Psalms21:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. O Yahweh, in Your strength the king will be glad, And in Your salvation how greatly he will rejoice!" 
Psalms21:2 You have given him his heart’s desire, And You have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah." 
Psalms21:3 For You meet him with the blessings of good things; You set a crown of fine gold on his head. 
Psalms21:4 He asked life of You, You gave it to him, Length of days forever and ever." 
Psalms21:5 His glory is great through Your salvation, Splendor and majesty You bestow upon him." 
Psalms21:6 For You make him most blessed forever; You make him joyful with gladness in Your presence. 
Psalms21:7 For the king trusts in Yahweh, And through the lovingkindness of the Most High he will not be shaken." 
Psalms21:8 Your hand will find out all your enemies; Your right hand will find out those who hate you. 
Psalms21:9 You will make them as a fiery oven in the time of your anger; Yahweh will swallow them up in His wrath, And fire will devour them." 
Psalms21:10 Their offspring You will destroy from the earth, And their seed from among the sons of men." 
Psalms21:11 Though they intended evil against You And devised a scheme, They will not succeed." 
Psalms21:12 For You will make them turn their back; You will aim with Your bowstrings at their faces. 
Psalms21:13 Be exalted, O Yahweh, in Your strength; We will sing and praise Your might." 
Psalms22:1 For the choir director. According to Aijeleth Hashshahar. A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why have You forsaken me? Far from my salvation are the words of my groaning." 
Psalms22:2 O my God, I call by day, but You do not answer; And by night, but I have no rest." 
Psalms22:3 Yet You are holy, Enthroned upon the praises of Israel." 
Psalms22:4 In You our fathers trusted; They trusted and You rescued them. 
Psalms22:5 To You they cried out and were granted escape; In You they trusted and were not disappointed. 
Psalms22:6 But I am a worm and not a man, A reproach of men and despised by the people." 
Psalms22:7 All who see me mock me; They smack their lip, they wag their head, saying," 
Psalms22:8 “Commit yourself to Yahweh; let Him rescue him; Let Him deliver him, because He delights in him.”" 
Psalms22:9 Yet You are He who brought me out of the womb; You made me trust when upon my mother’s breasts. 
Psalms22:10 Upon You I was cast from birth; You have been my God from my mother’s womb. 
Psalms22:11 Be not far from me, for distress is near; For there is none to help." 
Psalms22:12 Many bulls have surrounded me; Strong bulls of Bashan have encircled me. 
Psalms22:13 They open wide their mouth at me, As a lion that tears and roars." 
Psalms22:14 I am poured out like water, And all my bones are out of joint; My heart is like wax; It is melted within me." 
Psalms22:15 My strength is dried up like a potsherd, And my tongue cleaves to my jaws; And You lay me in the dust of death." 
Psalms22:16 For dogs have surrounded me; A band of evildoers has encompassed me; They pierced my hands and my feet. 
Psalms22:17 I count all my bones. They look, they stare at me;" 
Psalms22:18 They divide my garments among them, And for my clothing they cast lots." 
Psalms22:19 But You, O Yahweh, be not far off; O my Strength, hasten to my help." 
Psalms22:20 Deliver my soul from the sword, My only life from the power of the dog." 
Psalms22:21 Save me from the mouth of the lion; From the horns of the wild oxen You have answered me. 
Psalms22:22 I will surely recount Your name to my brothers; In the midst of the assembly I will praise You. 
Psalms22:23 You who fear Yahweh, praise Him; All you seed of Jacob, glorify Him, And stand in awe of Him, all you seed of Israel." 
Psalms22:24 For He has not despised and He has not abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; And He has not hidden His face from him; But when he cried to Him for help, He heard." 
Psalms22:25 Of You is my praise in the great assembly; I shall pay my vows before those who fear Him. 
Psalms22:26 The afflicted will eat and be satisfied; Those who seek Him will praise Yahweh. May your heart live forever! 
Psalms22:27 All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to Yahweh, And all the families of the nations will worship before You." 
Psalms22:28 For the kingdom is Yahweh’s And He rules over the nations. 
Psalms22:29 All the prosperous of the earth will eat and worship, All those who go down to the dust will bow before Him, Even he who cannot keep his soul alive." 
Psalms22:30 Their seed will serve Him; It will be recounted about the Lord to the coming generation. 
Psalms22:31 They will come and will declare His righteousness To a people who will be born, that He has done it." 
Psalms23:1 A Psalm of David. Yahweh is my shepherd, I shall not want." 
Psalms23:2 He makes me lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside quiet waters. 
Psalms23:3 He restores my soul; He guides me in the paths of righteousness For His name’s sake. 
Psalms23:4 Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I fear no evil, for You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me." 
Psalms23:5 You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; You have anointed my head with oil; My cup overflows. 
Psalms23:6 Surely goodness and lovingkindness will pursue me all the days of my life, And I will dwell in the house of Yahweh forever." 
Psalms24:1 Of David. A Psalm. The earth is Yahweh’s, as well as its fullness, The world, and those who dwell in it." 
Psalms24:2 For He has founded it upon the seas And established it upon the rivers. 
Psalms24:3 Who may ascend into the mountain of Yahweh? And who may rise in His holy place? 
Psalms24:4 He who has innocent hands and a pure heart, Who has not lifted up his soul to worthlessness And has not sworn deceitfully." 
Psalms24:5 He shall lift up a blessing from Yahweh And righteousness from the God of his salvation. 
Psalms24:6 This is the generation of those who seek Him, Who seek Your face—pay heed O Jacob. Selah." 
Psalms24:7 Lift up your heads, O gates, And be lifted up, O ancient doors, That the King of glory may come in!" 
Psalms24:8 Who is this King of glory? Yahweh strong and mighty, Yahweh mighty in battle." 
Psalms24:9 Lift up your heads, O gates, And lift yourselves up, O ancient doors, That the King of glory may come in!" 
Psalms24:10 Who is He, this King of glory? Yahweh of hosts, He is the King of glory. Selah." 
Psalms25:1 Of David. To You, O Yahweh, I lift up my soul." 
Psalms25:2 O my God, in You I trust, Do not let me be ashamed; Do not let my enemies exult over me." 
Psalms25:3 Indeed, let none who hope in You be ashamed; Let those who deal treacherously without cause be ashamed." 
Psalms25:4 Make me know Your ways, O Yahweh; Teach me Your paths." 
Psalms25:5 Lead me in Your truth and teach me, For You are the God of my salvation; In You I hope all the day." 
Psalms25:6 Remember, O Yahweh, Your compassion and Your lovingkindnesses, For they have been from of old." 
Psalms25:7 Do not remember the sins of my youth or my transgressions; According to Your lovingkindness remember me, For the sake of Your goodness, O Yahweh." 
Psalms25:8 Good and upright is Yahweh; Therefore He instructs sinners in the way. 
Psalms25:9 May He lead the humble in justice, And may He teach the humble His way." 
Psalms25:10 All the paths of Yahweh are lovingkindness and truth To those who guard His covenant and His testimonies. 
Psalms25:11 For Your name’s sake, O Yahweh, Pardon my iniquity, for it is great." 
Psalms25:12 Who is the man who fears Yahweh? He will instruct him in the way he should choose. 
Psalms25:13 His soul will abide in goodness, And his seed will inherit the land." 
Psalms25:14 The secret of Yahweh is for those who fear Him, And He will make them know His covenant." 
Psalms25:15 My eyes are continually toward Yahweh, For He will bring my feet out of the net." 
Psalms25:16 Turn to me and be gracious to me, For I am alone and afflicted." 
Psalms25:17 The troubles of my heart are enlarged; Bring me out of my distresses. 
Psalms25:18 See my affliction and my trouble, And forgive all my sins." 
Psalms25:19 See my enemies, for they are many, And they hate me with violent hatred." 
Psalms25:20 Keep my soul and deliver me; Do not let me be ashamed, for I take refuge in You." 
Psalms25:21 Let integrity and uprightness guard me, For I hope in You." 
Psalms25:22 Redeem Israel, O God, Out of all his troubles." 
Psalms26:1 Of David. Give justice to me, O Yahweh, for I have walked in my integrity, And I have trusted in Yahweh; I will not waver." 
Psalms26:2 Test me, O Yahweh, and try me; Refine my mind and my heart." 
Psalms26:3 For Your lovingkindness is before my eyes, And I have walked in Your truth." 
Psalms26:4 I do not sit with worthless men, And I will not go with pretenders." 
Psalms26:5 I hate the assembly of evildoers, And I will not sit with the wicked." 
Psalms26:6 I shall wash my hands in innocence, So I will go around Your altar, O Yahweh," 
Psalms26:7 In order to proclaim with the voice of thanksgiving And to recount all Your wondrous deeds. 
Psalms26:8 O Yahweh, I love the habitation of Your house And the place where Your glory dwells." 
Psalms26:9 Do not take my soul away along with sinners, Nor my life with men of bloodshed," 
Psalms26:10 In whose hands is a wicked scheme, And whose right hand is full of bribes." 
Psalms26:11 But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity; Redeem me, and be gracious to me." 
Psalms26:12 My foot stands on level ground; In the congregations I shall bless Yahweh. 
Psalms27:1 Of David. Yahweh is my light and my salvation; Whom shall I fear? Yahweh is the strong defense of my life; Whom shall I dread? 
Psalms27:2 When evildoers came upon me to devour my flesh, My adversaries and my enemies, they stumbled and fell." 
Psalms27:3 Though a host encamp against me, My heart will not fear; Though war arise against me, In this I trust." 
Psalms27:4 One thing I have asked from Yahweh, that I shall seek: That I may dwell in the house of Yahweh all the days of my life, To behold the beauty of Yahweh And to inquire in His temple." 
Psalms27:5 For in the day of calamity He will conceal me in His shelter; In the secret place of His tent He will hide me; He will lift me up on a rock. 
Psalms27:6 And now my head will be lifted up above my enemies around me, And I will offer in His tent sacrifices with loud shouts of joy; I will sing, and I will sing praises to Yahweh." 
Psalms27:7 Hear, O Yahweh, when I call with my voice, And be gracious to me and answer me." 
Psalms27:8 On Your behalf my heart says, “Seek My face,” “Your face, O Yahweh, I shall seek.”" 
Psalms27:9 Do not hide Your face from me, Do not turn Your slave away in anger; You have been my help; Do not abandon me and do not forsake me, O God of my salvation!" 
Psalms27:10 For my father and my mother have forsaken me, But Yahweh will take me up." 
Psalms27:11 Instruct me in Your way, O Yahweh, And lead me in a level path Because of my foes." 
Psalms27:12 Do not give me over to the desire of my adversaries, For false witnesses have risen against me, And such as breathe out violence." 
Psalms27:13 I would have despaired unless I had believed that I would see the goodness of Yahweh In the land of the living. 
Psalms27:14 Hope in Yahweh; Be strong and let your heart take courage; Hope in Yahweh. 
Psalms28:1 Of David. To You, O Yahweh, I call; My rock, do not be silent to me, Lest if You are hesitant toward me, I will become like those who go down to the pit." 
Psalms28:2 Hear the voice of my supplications when I cry to You for help, When I lift up my hands toward Your holy sanctuary." 
Psalms28:3 Do not drag me away with the wicked And with workers of iniquity, Who speak peace with their neighbors, While evil is in their hearts." 
Psalms28:4 Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their actions; Give to them according to the deeds of their hands; Return their dealings upon them. 
Psalms28:5 Because they do not regard the works of Yahweh Nor the deeds of His hands, He will tear them down and not build them up." 
Psalms28:6 Blessed be Yahweh, Because He has heard the voice of my supplications." 
Psalms28:7 Yahweh is my strength and my shield; My heart trusts in Him, and I am helped; Therefore my heart exults, And with my song I shall thank Him." 
Psalms28:8 Yahweh is their strength, And He is a strong defense of salvation to His anointed." 
Psalms28:9 Save Your people and bless Your inheritance; Be their shepherd also, and carry them forever." 
Psalms29:1 A Psalm of David. Ascribe to Yahweh, O sons of the mighty, Ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength." 
Psalms29:2 Ascribe to Yahweh the glory of His name; Worship Yahweh in the splendor of holiness. 
Psalms29:3 The voice of Yahweh is upon the waters; The God of glory thunders, Yahweh is over many waters." 
Psalms29:4 The voice of Yahweh is powerful, The voice of Yahweh is full of splendor." 
Psalms29:5 The voice of Yahweh breaks the cedars; Indeed, Yahweh breaks in pieces the cedars of Lebanon." 
Psalms29:6 He makes Lebanon skip like a calf, And Sirion like a young wild ox." 
Psalms29:7 The voice of Yahweh hews out flames of fire. 
Psalms29:8 The voice of Yahweh causes the wilderness to tremble; Yahweh causes the wilderness of Kadesh to tremble. 
Psalms29:9 The voice of Yahweh makes the deer to calve And strips the forests bare; And in His temple everything says, “Glory!”" 
Psalms29:10 Yahweh sat enthroned over the flood; Indeed, Yahweh sits as King forever." 
Psalms29:11 Yahweh will give strength to His people; Yahweh will bless His people with peace. 
Psalms30:1 A Psalm. A Song at the Dedication of the House. Of David. I will exalt You, O Yahweh, for You have lifted me up, And have not let my enemies be glad over me." 
Psalms30:2 O Yahweh my God, I cried to You for help, and You healed me." 
Psalms30:3 O Yahweh, You have brought up my soul from Sheol; You have kept me alive, that I would not go down to the pit." 
Psalms30:4 Sing praise to Yahweh, you His holy ones, And give thanks for the remembrance of His holy name." 
Psalms30:5 For His anger is but for a moment, His favor is for a lifetime; Weeping may last for the night, But a shout of joy comes in the morning." 
Psalms30:6 Now as for me, I said in my prosperity, “I will never be shaken.”" 
Psalms30:7 O Yahweh, by Your favor You have made my mountain to stand strong; You hid Your face, I was dismayed." 
Psalms30:8 To You, O Yahweh, I called, And to the Lord I made supplication:" 
Psalms30:9 “What profit is there in my blood, if I go down to the pit? Will the dust praise You? Will it declare Your truth?" 
Psalms30:10 “Hear, O Yahweh, and be gracious to me; O Yahweh, be my helper.”" 
Psalms30:11 You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; You have loosed my sackcloth and girded me with gladness," 
Psalms30:12 That my glory may sing praise to You and not be silent. O Yahweh my God, I will give thanks to You forever." 
Psalms31:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. In You, O Yahweh, I have taken refuge; Let me never be ashamed; In Your righteousness protect me." 
Psalms31:2 Incline Your ear to me, deliver me quickly; Be to me a rock of strength, A fortress to save me." 
Psalms31:3 For You are my high rock and my fortress; For Your name’s sake You will lead me and guide me. 
Psalms31:4 You will bring me out of the net which they have secretly laid for me, For You are my strength." 
Psalms31:5 Into Your hand I commit my spirit; You have ransomed me, O Yahweh, God of truth." 
Psalms31:6 I hate those who regard worthless idols, But I trust in Yahweh." 
Psalms31:7 I will rejoice and be glad in Your lovingkindness, Because You have seen my affliction; You have known the troubles of my soul," 
Psalms31:8 And You have not given me over into the hand of the enemy; You have set my feet in a large place. 
Psalms31:9 Be gracious to me, O Yahweh, for I am in distress; My eye is wasted away from grief, my soul and my body also." 
Psalms31:10 For my life is worn down with sorrow And my years with sighing; My strength fails because of my iniquity, And my bones waste away." 
Psalms31:11 Among all my adversaries, I have become a reproach, Especially to my neighbors, And an object of dread to my acquaintances; Those who see me in the street flee from me." 
Psalms31:12 I am forgotten like a dead man—out of mind— I am like a broken vessel. 
Psalms31:13 For I have heard the bad report of many, Terror is on every side; While they took counsel together against me, They schemed to take my life." 
Psalms31:14 But as for me, I trust in You, O Yahweh, I say, “You are my God.”" 
Psalms31:15 My times are in Your hand; Deliver me from the hand of my enemies and from those who pursue me. 
Psalms31:16 Make Your face to shine upon Your slave; Save me in Your lovingkindness. 
Psalms31:17 O Yahweh, let me not be put to shame, for I call upon You; Let the wicked be put to shame, let them be silent in Sheol." 
Psalms31:18 Let the lying lips be mute, Which speak arrogantly against the righteous With lofty pride and contempt." 
Psalms31:19 How great is Your goodness, Which You have stored up for those who fear You, Which You have worked for those who take refuge in You, Before the sons of men!" 
Psalms31:20 You hide them in the secret place of Your presence from the conspiracies of man; You keep them secretly in a shelter from the strife of tongues. 
Psalms31:21 Blessed be Yahweh, For He has made marvelous His lovingkindness to me in a besieged city." 
Psalms31:22 As for me, I said in my alarm, “I am cut off from before Your eyes”; Nevertheless, You heard the voice of my supplications When I cried to You for help." 
Psalms31:23 Oh, love Yahweh, all you His holy ones! Yahweh guards the faithful But repays fully the one who acts in lofty pride." 
Psalms31:24 Be strong and let your heart take courage, All you who wait for Yahweh." 
Psalms32:1 Of David. A Maskil. How blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, Whose sin is covered!" 
Psalms32:2 How blessed is the man whose iniquity Yahweh will not take into account, And in whose spirit there is no deceit!" 
Psalms32:3 When I kept silent about my sin, my bones wasted away Through my groaning all day long." 
Psalms32:4 For day and night Your hand was heavy upon me; My vitality was drained away as with the heat of summer. Selah. 
Psalms32:5 I acknowledged my sin to You, And my iniquity I did not cover up; I said, “I will confess my transgressions to Yahweh;” And You forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah." 
Psalms32:6 Therefore, let every holy one pray to You at a time when You may be found; Surely in a flood of great waters they will not reach him." 
Psalms32:7 You are my hiding place; You guard me from trouble; You surround me with songs of deliverance. Selah. 
Psalms32:8 I will give you insight and teach you in the way which you should go; I will counsel you with My eye upon you. 
Psalms32:9 Do not be as the horse or as the mule which have no understanding, Whose harness are bit and bridle to control them, Otherwise they will not come near you." 
Psalms32:10 Many are the sorrows of the wicked, But he who trusts in Yahweh, lovingkindness shall surround him." 
Psalms32:11 Be glad in Yahweh and rejoice, you righteous ones; And shout for joy, all you who are upright in heart." 
Psalms33:1 Sing for joy in Yahweh, O righteous ones; Praise is becoming to the upright." 
Psalms33:2 Give thanks to Yahweh with the lyre; Sing praises to Him with a harp of ten strings. 
Psalms33:3 Sing to Him a new song; Play skillfully with a loud shout. 
Psalms33:4 For the word of Yahweh is upright, And all His work is done in faithfulness." 
Psalms33:5 He loves righteousness and justice; The earth is full of the lovingkindness of Yahweh. 
Psalms33:6 By the word of Yahweh the heavens were made, And by the breath of His mouth all their host." 
Psalms33:7 He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap; He lays up the deeps in storehouses. 
Psalms33:8 Let all the earth fear Yahweh; Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him. 
Psalms33:9 For He spoke, and it was; He commanded, and it stood." 
Psalms33:10 Yahweh nullifies the counsel of the nations; He frustrates the thoughts of the peoples. 
Psalms33:11 The counsel of Yahweh stands forever, The thoughts of His heart from generation to generation." 
Psalms33:12 Blessed is the nation whose God is Yahweh, The people whom He has chosen for His own inheritance." 
Psalms33:13 Yahweh looks from heaven; He sees all the sons of men; 
Psalms33:14 From the place of His habitation He gazes On all the inhabitants of the earth," 
Psalms33:15 He who forms the hearts of them all, He who understands all their works." 
Psalms33:16 The king is not saved by a mighty army; A warrior is not delivered by great strength. 
Psalms33:17 A horse is a false hope for salvation; Nor does it provide escape to anyone by its great strength. 
Psalms33:18 Behold, the eye of Yahweh is on those who fear Him, On those who wait for His lovingkindness," 
Psalms33:19 To deliver their soul from death And to keep them alive in famine. 
Psalms33:20 Our soul is patient for Yahweh; He is our help and our shield. 
Psalms33:21 For our heart is glad in Him, Because we trust in His holy name." 
Psalms33:22 Let Your lovingkindness, O Yahweh, be upon us, As we wait for You." 
Psalms34:1 Of David. When he feigned madness before Abimelech, so that he drove him away and he departed. I will bless Yahweh at all times; His praise shall continually be in my mouth." 
Psalms34:2 My soul will make its boast in Yahweh; The humble will hear it and rejoice. 
Psalms34:3 O magnify Yahweh with me, And let us exalt His name together." 
Psalms34:4 I inquired of Yahweh, and He answered me, And delivered me from all that I dread." 
Psalms34:5 They looked to Him and were radiant, And their faces will never be humiliated." 
Psalms34:6 This poor man called out, and Yahweh heard him And saved him out of all his troubles." 
Psalms34:7 The angel of Yahweh encamps around those who fear Him, And rescues them." 
Psalms34:8 O taste and see that Yahweh is good; How blessed is the man who takes refuge in Him! 
Psalms34:9 Oh, fear Yahweh, you His saints; For there is no want to those who fear Him." 
Psalms34:10 The young lions do lack and suffer hunger; But they who inquire of Yahweh shall not be in want of any good thing. 
Psalms34:11 Come, you children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of Yahweh." 
Psalms34:12 Who is the man who delights in life And loves many days that he may see good? 
Psalms34:13 Guard your tongue from evil And your lips from speaking deceit. 
Psalms34:14 Depart from evil and do good; Seek peace and pursue it. 
Psalms34:15 The eyes of Yahweh are toward the righteous And His ears are open to their cry for help. 
Psalms34:16 The face of Yahweh is against evildoers, To cut off the memory of them from the earth." 
Psalms34:17 The righteous cry, and Yahweh hears And delivers them out of all their troubles." 
Psalms34:18 Yahweh is near to the brokenhearted And saves those who are crushed in spirit. 
Psalms34:19 Many are the evils against the righteous, But Yahweh delivers him out of them all." 
Psalms34:20 He keeps all his bones, Not one of them is broken." 
Psalms34:21 Evil shall slay the wicked, And those who hate the righteous will be condemned." 
Psalms34:22 Yahweh redeems the soul of His slaves, And all those who take refuge in Him will not be condemned." 
Psalms35:1 Of David. Contend, O Yahweh, with those who contend with me; Fight against those who fight against me." 
Psalms35:2 Take hold of shield and large shield And rise up for my help. 
Psalms35:3 Draw also the spear and the battle‑axe to meet those who pursue me; Say to my soul, “I am your salvation.”" 
Psalms35:4 Let those be ashamed and dishonored who seek my life; Let those who devise evil against me be turned back and humiliated. 
Psalms35:5 Let them be like chaff before the wind, With the angel of Yahweh driving them on." 
Psalms35:6 Let their way be dark and slippery, With the angel of Yahweh pursuing them." 
Psalms35:7 For without cause they hid their net for me; Without cause they dug a pit for my soul. 
Psalms35:8 Let destruction, which he does not know, come upon him, And let the net, which he hid, catch him; Let him fall into it in destruction." 
Psalms35:9 And my soul shall rejoice in Yahweh; It shall be joyful in His salvation. 
Psalms35:10 All my bones will say, “Yahweh, who is like You, Who delivers the afflicted from him who is too strong for him, And the afflicted and the needy from him who robs him?”" 
Psalms35:11 Malicious witnesses rise up, Who ask me of things that I do not know." 
Psalms35:12 They repay me evil for good, It is bereavement to my soul." 
Psalms35:13 But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth; I humbled my soul with fasting, And my prayer kept returning to my bosom." 
Psalms35:14 I walked about as though it were my friend or brother; I bowed down mourning, as one who sorrows for a mother." 
Psalms35:15 But at my stumbling they were glad and gathered themselves together; The smiters whom I did not know gathered together against me, They tore at me and never were silent." 
Psalms35:16 Amongst the godless jesters at a feast, They gnashed at me with their teeth." 
Psalms35:17 Lord, how long will You look on? Bring back my soul from their ravages, My only life from the lions." 
Psalms35:18 I will give You thanks in the great assembly; I will praise You among a mighty people. 
Psalms35:19 Let those who are wrongfully my enemies not be glad over me; Nor let those who hate me without cause wink maliciously. 
Psalms35:20 For they do not speak peace, But they devise deceitful words against those who are quiet in the land." 
Psalms35:21 They opened their mouth wide against me; They said, “Aha, aha, our eyes have seen it!”" 
Psalms35:22 You have seen it, O Yahweh, do not keep silent; O Lord, do not be far from me." 
Psalms35:23 Stir up Yourself, and awake to my justice And to my cause, my God and my Lord." 
Psalms35:24 Judge me, O Yahweh my God, according to Your righteousness, And do not let them be glad over me." 
Psalms35:25 Do not let them say in their heart, “Aha, our desire!” Do not let them say, “We have swallowed him up!”" 
Psalms35:26 Let those be ashamed and humiliated altogether who are glad at the evil done to me; Let those be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves over me. 
Psalms35:27 Let them shout for joy and be glad, who delight in my righteousness; And let them say continually, “Yahweh be magnified, Who delights in the peace of His slave.”" 
Psalms35:28 And my tongue shall utter Your righteousness And Your praise all day long. 
Psalms36:1 For the choir director. Of the servant of Yahweh, of David. Transgression declares to the ungodly within his heart; There is no dread of God before his eyes." 
Psalms36:2 For it flatters him in his eyes For one to discover his iniquity and hate it. 
Psalms36:3 The words of his mouth are wickedness and deceit; He has ceased to consider to do good. 
Psalms36:4 He devises wickedness upon his bed; He sets himself on a path that is not good; He does not despise evil. 
Psalms36:5 Your lovingkindness, O Yahweh, is in the heavens, Your faithfulness reaches to the skies." 
Psalms36:6 Your righteousness is like the mountains of God; Your judgments are like a great deep. O Yahweh, You save man and beast." 
Psalms36:7 How precious is Your lovingkindness, O God! And the sons of men take refuge in the shadow of Your wings." 
Psalms36:8 They are satisfied from the richness of Your house; And You give them to drink of the river of Your delights. 
Psalms36:9 For with You is the fountain of life; In Your light we see light. 
Psalms36:10 Continue Your lovingkindness to those who know You, And Your righteousness to the upright in heart." 
Psalms36:11 Let not the foot of pride come upon me, And let not the hand of the ungodly drive me away." 
Psalms36:12 There the workers of wickedness have fallen; They have been thrust down and cannot rise. 
Psalms37:1 Of David. Do not fret because of evildoers, Be not envious toward doers of unrighteousness." 
Psalms37:2 For they will wither quickly like the grass And fade like the green herb. 
Psalms37:3 Trust in Yahweh and do good; Dwell in the land and cultivate faithfulness. 
Psalms37:4 Delight yourself in Yahweh; And He will give you the desires of your heart. 
Psalms37:5 Commit your way to Yahweh, Trust in Him, and He will do it." 
Psalms37:6 He will bring forth your righteousness as the light And your judgment as the noonday. 
Psalms37:7 Be still in Yahweh and wait patiently for Him; Do not fret because of him who prospers in his way, Because of the man who carries out schemes of wickedness." 
Psalms37:8 Cease from anger and forsake wrath; Do not fret; it leads only to evildoing. 
Psalms37:9 For evildoers will be cut off, But those who hope for Yahweh, they will inherit the land." 
Psalms37:10 Yet a little while and the wicked man will be no more; You will look carefully at his place, and he will not be there." 
Psalms37:11 But the lowly will inherit the land And will delight themselves in abundant peace. 
Psalms37:12 The wicked schemes against the righteous And gnashes at him with his teeth. 
Psalms37:13 The Lord laughs at him, For He sees that his day is coming." 
Psalms37:14 The wicked have drawn the sword and bent their bow To cast down the afflicted and the needy, To slay those who are upright in conduct." 
Psalms37:15 Their sword will enter their own heart, And their bows will be broken." 
Psalms37:16 Better is the little of the righteous Than the abundance of many wicked. 
Psalms37:17 For the arms of the wicked will be broken, But Yahweh sustains the righteous." 
Psalms37:18 Yahweh knows the days of the blameless, And their inheritance will be forever." 
Psalms37:19 They will not be ashamed in the time of evil, And in the days of famine they will be satisfied." 
Psalms37:20 But the wicked will perish; And the enemies of Yahweh will be like the glory of the pastures, They vanish—in smoke they vanish away." 
Psalms37:21 The wicked borrows and does not pay back, But the righteous is gracious and gives." 
Psalms37:22 For those blessed by Him will inherit the land, But those cursed by Him will be cut off." 
Psalms37:23 The footsteps of a man are established by Yahweh, And He delights in his way." 
Psalms37:24 When he falls, he will not be hurled headlong, Because Yahweh is the One who sustains his hand." 
Psalms37:25 I was young and now I am old, Yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken Or his seed begging bread." 
Psalms37:26 All day long he is gracious and lends, And his seed is a blessing." 
Psalms37:27 Depart from evil and do good, So you will dwell forever." 
Psalms37:28 For Yahweh loves justice And will not forsake His holy ones; They are kept forever, But the seed of the wicked will be cut off." 
Psalms37:29 The righteous will inherit the land And dwell in it forever. 
Psalms37:30 The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, And his tongue speaks justice." 
Psalms37:31 The law of his God is in his heart; His steps do not slip. 
Psalms37:32 The wicked spies upon the righteous And seeks to put him to death. 
Psalms37:33 Yahweh will not forsake him in his hand; He will not condemn him when he is judged. 
Psalms37:34 Hope for Yahweh and keep His way, And He will exalt you to inherit the land; When the wicked are cut off, you will see it." 
Psalms37:35 I have seen a wicked, ruthless man Spreading himself like a luxuriant tree in its native soil." 
Psalms37:36 Then he passed away, and behold, he was no more; I sought for him, but he could not be found." 
Psalms37:37 Observe the blameless man, and behold the upright; For the man of peace will have a posterity." 
Psalms37:38 But transgressors will be altogether destroyed; The posterity of the wicked will be cut off. 
Psalms37:39 But the salvation of the righteous is from Yahweh; He is their strength in time of distress. 
Psalms37:40 Yahweh helps them and protects them; He protects them from the wicked and saves them, Because they take refuge in Him." 
Psalms38:1 A Psalm of David. To bring to remembrance. O Yahweh, reprove me not in Your wrath, And discipline me not in Your burning anger." 
Psalms38:2 For Your arrows have pressed deep into me, And Your hand has pressed down upon me." 
Psalms38:3 There is no soundness in my flesh because of Your indignation; There is no health in my bones because of my sin. 
Psalms38:4 For my iniquities go over my head; As a heavy burden they weigh too much for me. 
Psalms38:5 My wounds stink and rot Because of my folly. 
Psalms38:6 I am bent over and greatly bowed down; I go mourning all day long. 
Psalms38:7 For my loins are filled with burning, And there is no soundness in my flesh." 
Psalms38:8 I am faint and badly crushed; I groan because of the agitation of my heart. 
Psalms38:9 Lord, all my desire is before You; And my sighing is not hidden from You." 
Psalms38:10 My heart throbs, my strength forsakes me; And the light of my eyes, even that has gone from me." 
Psalms38:11 My loved ones and my friends stand aloof from my plague; And my kinsmen stand afar off. 
Psalms38:12 Those who search for my life lay snares for me; And those who seek to do me evil have threatened destruction, And they meditate on deception all day long." 
Psalms38:13 But I, like a deaf man, do not hear; And I am like a mute man who does not open his mouth." 
Psalms38:14 And I am like a man who does not hear, And in whose mouth are no reproofs." 
Psalms38:15 For I wait on You, O Yahweh; You will answer, O Lord my God." 
Psalms38:16 For I said, “Save, lest they be glad over me, Who, when my foot stumbles, magnify themselves against me.”" 
Psalms38:17 For I am ready to fall, And my sorrow is continually before me." 
Psalms38:18 For I confess my iniquity; I am full of anxiety because of my sin. 
Psalms38:19 But my enemies are vigorous and strong, And those who wrongfully hate me abound." 
Psalms38:20 And those who repay evil for good, They accuse me, for I pursue what is good." 
Psalms38:21 Do not forsake me, O Yahweh; O my God, do not be far from me!" 
Psalms38:22 Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation!" 
Psalms39:1 For the choir director. For Jeduthun. A Psalm of David. I said, “I will keep watch over my ways That I may not sin with my tongue; I will keep watch over my mouth as with a muzzle While the wicked are in my presence.”" 
Psalms39:2 I was mute with silence, I even kept silent from speaking good, And my anguish grew worse." 
Psalms39:3 My heart was hot within me, While I meditated the fire was burning; Then I spoke with my tongue:" 
Psalms39:4 “Yahweh, cause me to know my end And what is the extent of my days; Let me know how transient I am." 
Psalms39:5 Behold, You have made my days as handbreadths, And my lifetime as nothing before You; Surely every man, even standing firm, is altogether vanity. Selah." 
Psalms39:6 Surely every man walks about as a shadow; Surely they make an uproar in vain; He piles up riches and does not know who will gather them. 
Psalms39:7 “And now, Lord, what do I hope in? My expectation is in You." 
Psalms39:8 Deliver me from all my transgressions; Make me not the reproach of the wicked fool. 
Psalms39:9 I have become mute, I do not open my mouth, Because it is You who have done it." 
Psalms39:10 Remove Your plague from me; Because of the opposition of Your hand I am wasting away. 
Psalms39:11 With reproofs You chasten a man for iniquity; You consume as a moth what is precious to him; Surely every man is vanity. Selah. 
Psalms39:12 “Hear my prayer, O Yahweh, and give ear to my cry for help; Do not be silent at my tears; For I am a sojourner with You, A foreign resident like all my fathers." 
Psalms39:13 Turn Your gaze away from me, that I may smile again Before I go and am no more.”" 
Psalms40:1 For the choir director. Of David. A Psalm. I hoped earnestly for Yahweh; And He inclined to me and heard my cry for help. 
Psalms40:2 He brought me up out of the pit of destruction, out of the miry clay, And He set my feet upon a high rock, He established my steps." 
Psalms40:3 He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God; Many will see and fear And will trust in Yahweh." 
Psalms40:4 How blessed is the man who has made Yahweh his trust, And has not turned to the proud, nor to those who stray into falsehood." 
Psalms40:5 Many, O Yahweh my God, are the wondrous deeds You have done, And Your thoughts toward us; There is none to compare with You. I would declare and speak of them, But they are too numerous to recount." 
Psalms40:6 Sacrifice and meal offering You have not desired; My ears You have opened; Burnt offering and sin offering You have not required. 
Psalms40:7 Then I said, “Behold, I come; In the scroll of the book it is written of me." 
Psalms40:8 I desire to do Your will, O my God; Your law is within my inner being.”" 
Psalms40:9 I proclaim good news of righteousness in the great assembly; Behold, I do not restrain my lips, O Yahweh, You know." 
Psalms40:10 I do not conceal Your righteousness within my heart; I speak of Your faithfulness and Your salvation; I do not hide Your lovingkindness and Your truth from the great assembly. 
Psalms40:11 You, O Yahweh, will not withhold Your compassion from me; Your lovingkindness and Your truth will continually guard me." 
Psalms40:12 For evils beyond number have surrounded me; My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to see; They are more numerous than the hairs of my head, And my heart has failed me." 
Psalms40:13 Be pleased, O Yahweh, to deliver me; Make haste, O Yahweh, to help me." 
Psalms40:14 Let those be ashamed and humiliated together Who seek my life to sweep it away; Let those be turned back and dishonored Who delight in evil against me. 
Psalms40:15 Let those be appalled because of their shame Who say to me, “Aha, aha!”" 
Psalms40:16 Let all who seek You rejoice and be glad in You; Let those who love Your salvation say continually, “Yahweh be magnified!”" 
Psalms40:17 As for me, I am afflicted and needy, May the Lord think of me. You are my help and the One who rescues me; Do not delay, O my God." 
Psalms41:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. How blessed is he who considers the poor; Yahweh will provide him escape in a day of calamity. 
Psalms41:2 Yahweh will keep him and keep him alive, And he shall be blessed upon the earth; And do not give him over to the desire of his enemies." 
Psalms41:3 Yahweh will sustain him upon his sickbed; In his illness, You restore him to health." 
Psalms41:4 As for me, I said, “O Yahweh, be gracious to me; Heal my soul, for I have sinned against You.”" 
Psalms41:5 My enemies speak evil against me, “When will he die, and his name perish?”" 
Psalms41:6 And when he comes to see me, he speaks worthlessness; His heart gathers wickedness to itself; When he goes outside, he speaks it." 
Psalms41:7 All who hate me whisper together against me; Against me, they devise for me calamity, saying," 
Psalms41:8 “A vile thing is poured out upon him, That when he lies down, he will not rise up again.”" 
Psalms41:9 Even my close friend in whom I trusted, Who ate my bread, Has lifted up his heel against me." 
Psalms41:10 But You, O Yahweh, be gracious to me and raise me up, That I may repay them." 
Psalms41:11 By this I know that You delight in me, Because my enemy makes no shout in triumph over me." 
Psalms41:12 As for me, You uphold me in my integrity, And You make me stand firm in Your presence forever." 
Psalms41:13 Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, From everlasting to everlasting. Amen and Amen." 
Psalms42:1 For the choir director. A Maskil of the sons of Korah. As the deer pants for the water brooks, So my soul pants for You, O God." 
Psalms42:2 My soul thirsts for God, for the living God; When shall I come and appear before God?" 
Psalms42:3 My tears have been my food day and night, While they say to me all day long, “Where is your God?”" 
Psalms42:4 These things I remember and I pour out my soul within me. For I used to go along with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of God, With the sound of a shout of joy and thanksgiving, a multitude keeping festival." 
Psalms42:5 Why are you in despair, O my soul? And why are you disturbed within me? Wait for God, for I shall still praise Him, For the salvation of His presence." 
Psalms42:6 O my God, my soul is in despair within me; Therefore I remember You from the land of the Jordan And the peaks of Hermon, from Mount Mizar." 
Psalms42:7 Deep calls to deep at the sound of Your waterfalls; All Your breakers and Your waves have rolled over me. 
Psalms42:8 By day, Yahweh will command His lovingkindness; And by night, His song will be with me, A prayer to the God of my life." 
Psalms42:9 I say to God my rock, “Why have You forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?”" 
Psalms42:10 As a shattering of my bones, my adversaries reproach me, While they say to me all day long, “Where is your God?”" 
Psalms42:11 Why are you in despair, O my soul? And why are you disturbed within me? Wait for God, for I shall still praise Him, The salvation of my presence and my God." 
Psalms43:1 Give justice to me, O God, and plead my case against an unholy nation; Oh protect me from the deceitful and unrighteous man!" 
Psalms43:2 For You are the God of my strength; why have You rejected me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? 
Psalms43:3 Oh send out Your light and Your truth, let them lead me; Let them bring me to Your holy mountain And to Your dwelling places." 
Psalms43:4 Then I will go to the altar of God, To God my exceeding joy; And upon the lyre I shall praise You, O God, my God." 
Psalms43:5 Why are you in despair, O my soul? And why are you disturbed within me? Wait for God, for I shall still praise Him, The salvation of my presence and my God." 
Psalms44:1 For the choir director. Of the sons of Korah. A Maskil. O God, we have heard with our ears, Our fathers have recounted to us The work that You did in their days, In the days of old." 
Psalms44:2 You with Your own hand dispossessed the nations; Then You planted them; You afflicted the peoples, Then You cast them out." 
Psalms44:3 For by their own sword they did not possess the land, And their own arm did not save them, But Your right hand and Your arm and the light of Your presence, For You favored them." 
Psalms44:4 You are my King, O God; Command salvation for Jacob." 
Psalms44:5 Through You we will push back our adversaries; Through Your name we will tread down those who rise up against us. 
Psalms44:6 For I will not trust in my bow, And my sword will not save me." 
Psalms44:7 But You have saved us from our adversaries, And You have put to shame those who hate us." 
Psalms44:8 In God we have boasted all day long, And we will give thanks to Your name forever. Selah." 
Psalms44:9 Yet You have rejected us and brought us to dishonor, And do not go out with our armies." 
Psalms44:10 You cause us to turn back from the adversary; And those who hate us have plundered us for themselves. 
Psalms44:11 You give us as sheep to be eaten And have scattered us among the nations. 
Psalms44:12 You sell Your people for no amount, And You have not profited from their price." 
Psalms44:13 You make us a reproach to our neighbors, A mockery and a derision to those around us." 
Psalms44:14 You make us a byword among the nations, A laughingstock among the peoples." 
Psalms44:15 All day long my dishonor is before me And the shame of my face has covered me," 
Psalms44:16 Because of the voice of him who reproaches and reviles, Because of the presence of the enemy and the avenger." 
Psalms44:17 All this has come upon us, but we have not forgotten You, And we have not dealt falsely with Your covenant." 
Psalms44:18 Our heart has not turned back, Nor have our steps deviated from Your path," 
Psalms44:19 Yet You have crushed us in a place of jackals And covered us with the shadow of death. 
Psalms44:20 If we had forgotten the name of our God Or spread our hands to a strange god," 
Psalms44:21 Would not God find this out? For He knows the secrets of the heart. 
Psalms44:22 But for Your sake we are killed all day long; We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. 
Psalms44:23 Arouse Yourself, why do You sleep, O Lord? Awake, do not reject us forever." 
Psalms44:24 Why do You hide Your face And forget our affliction and our oppression? 
Psalms44:25 For our soul has sunk down into the dust; Our body cleaves to the earth. 
Psalms44:26 Rise up, be our help, And redeem us for the sake of Your lovingkindness." 
Psalms45:1 For the choir director. According to Shoshannim. Of the sons of Korah. A Maskil. A Song of Love. My heart overflows with a good theme; I address my verses to the King; My tongue is the pen of a skillful scribe. 
Psalms45:2 You are fairer than the sons of men; Grace is poured upon Your lips; Therefore God has blessed You forever. 
Psalms45:3 Gird Your sword on Your thigh, O Mighty One, In Your splendor and Your majesty!" 
Psalms45:4 And in Your majesty ride on victoriously, For the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness; Let Your right hand teach You awesome things." 
Psalms45:5 Your arrows are sharp; The peoples fall under You; Your arrows are in the heart of the King’s enemies. 
Psalms45:6 Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; A scepter of uprightness is the scepter of Your kingdom." 
Psalms45:7 You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; Therefore God, Your God, has anointed You With the oil of joy above Your companions." 
Psalms45:8 All Your garments are fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia; Out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made You glad. 
Psalms45:9 Kings’ daughters are among Your noble ladies; At Your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ophir. 
Psalms45:10 Listen, O daughter, give attention and incline your ear: Forget your people and your father’s house;" 
Psalms45:11 Then the King will desire your beauty. Because He is your Lord, bow down to Him." 
Psalms45:12 The daughter of Tyre will come with a present; The rich among the people will seek your favor. 
Psalms45:13 The King’s daughter is all glorious within her chamber; Her clothing is interwoven with gold. 
Psalms45:14 She will be led to the King in embroidered work; The virgins, her companions who follow her, Will be brought to You." 
Psalms45:15 They will be led forth with gladness and rejoicing; They will enter into the King’s palace. 
Psalms45:16 In place of your fathers will be your sons; You shall set them up as princes in all the earth. 
Psalms45:17 I will cause Your name to be remembered from generation to every generation; Therefore the peoples will give You thanks forever and ever. 
Psalms46:1 For the choir director. Of the sons of Korah. According to Alamoth. A Song. God is our refuge and strength, A very present help in trouble." 
Psalms46:2 Therefore we will not fear, though the earth should change And though the mountains shake into the heart of the sea;" 
Psalms46:3 Though its waters roar and foam, Though the mountains quake at its lofty pride. Selah." 
Psalms46:4 There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, The holy dwelling places of the Most High." 
Psalms46:5 God is in the midst of her, she will not be shaken; God will help her when morning dawns." 
Psalms46:6 The nations roar, the kingdoms shake; He gives His voice, the earth melts." 
Psalms46:7 Yahweh of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our stronghold. Selah. 
Psalms46:8 Come, behold the works of Yahweh, Who has appointed desolations in the earth." 
Psalms46:9 He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth; He breaks the bow and cuts up the spear; He burns the chariots with fire. 
Psalms46:10 “Cease striving and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth.”" 
Psalms46:11 Yahweh of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our stronghold. Selah. 
Psalms47:1 For the choir director. Of the sons of Korah. A Psalm. O clap your hands, all peoples; Make a loud shout to God with the sound of a shout of joy." 
Psalms47:2 For Yahweh Most High is fearsome, A great King over all the earth." 
Psalms47:3 He subdues peoples under us And nations under our feet. 
Psalms47:4 He chooses our inheritance for us, The pride of Jacob whom He loves. Selah." 
Psalms47:5 God has ascended with a loud shout, Yahweh, with the sound of a trumpet." 
Psalms47:6 Sing praises to God, sing praises; Sing praises to our King, sing praises." 
Psalms47:7 For God is the King of all the earth; Sing praises with a skillful psalm. 
Psalms47:8 God reigns over the nations, God sits on His holy throne." 
Psalms47:9 The nobles of the peoples have assembled themselves with the people of the God of Abraham, For the shields of the earth belong to God; He is highly exalted." 
Psalms48:1 A Song. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. Great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised, In the city of our God, His holy mountain." 
Psalms48:2 Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth, Is Mount Zion in the far north, The city of the great King." 
Psalms48:3 God, in her palaces, Has made Himself known as a stronghold." 
Psalms48:4 For, behold, the kings assembled themselves, They passed by together." 
Psalms48:5 They saw it, then they were astonished; They were dismayed, they fled in alarm." 
Psalms48:6 Panic seized them there, Anguish, as of a woman in childbirth." 
Psalms48:7 With the east wind You break the ships of Tarshish. 
Psalms48:8 As we have heard, so have we seen In the city of Yahweh of hosts, in the city of our God; God will establish her forever. Selah." 
Psalms48:9 We have thought on Your lovingkindness, O God, In the midst of Your temple." 
Psalms48:10 As is Your name, O God, So is Your praise to the ends of the earth; Your right hand is full of righteousness." 
Psalms48:11 Let Mount Zion be glad, Let the daughters of Judah rejoice Because of Your judgments." 
Psalms48:12 Walk about Zion and go around her; Count her towers; 
Psalms48:13 Consider her ramparts; Go through her palaces, That you may recount it to the next generation." 
Psalms48:14 For this is God, Our God forever and ever; He will guide us over death." 
Psalms49:1 For the choir director. Of the sons of Korah. A Psalm. Hear this, all peoples; Give ear, all inhabitants of the world," 
Psalms49:2 Both low and high, Rich and poor together." 
Psalms49:3 My mouth will speak wisdom, And the meditation of my heart will be discernment." 
Psalms49:4 I will incline my ear to a proverb; I will express my riddle on the harp. 
Psalms49:5 Why should I fear in days of evil, When the iniquity of my supplanters surrounds me," 
Psalms49:6 Even those who trust in their wealth And boast in the abundance of their riches? 
Psalms49:7 Truly, no man can redeem his brother; He cannot give to God a ransom for him—" 
Psalms49:8 For the redemption price for their soul is costly, And it ceases forever—" 
Psalms49:9 That he should live on eternally, That he should not see corruption." 
Psalms49:10 For he sees that even wise men die; The fool and the senseless alike perish And leave their wealth to others. 
Psalms49:11 Their inner thought is that their houses are forever And their dwelling places from generation to generation; They have called their lands after their own names. 
Psalms49:12 But man in his honor will not endure; He is like the animals that perish. 
Psalms49:13 This is the way of those who are foolish, And of those after them who are pleased with their words. Selah." 
Psalms49:14 As sheep they are appointed for Sheol; Death will shepherd them; And the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning, And their form shall be for Sheol to consume, Far away from his habitation." 
Psalms49:15 But God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol, For He will receive me. Selah." 
Psalms49:16 Do not be afraid when a man becomes rich, When the glory of his house increases;" 
Psalms49:17 For when he dies he will not take any of it; His glory will not descend after him. 
Psalms49:18 For while he lives he blesses his soul— And men will praise you when you do well for yourself— 
Psalms49:19 But his soul shall go to the generation of his fathers; They will eternally not see light. 
Psalms49:20 Man in his honor, but who does not understand, Is like the animals that perish." 
Psalms50:1 A Psalm of Asaph. The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, has spoken, And called the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting." 
Psalms50:2 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shone forth." 
Psalms50:3 May our God come and not be silent; Fire devours before Him, And a storm whirls around Him." 
Psalms50:4 He calls the heavens above, And the earth, to render justice to His people:" 
Psalms50:5 “Gather My holy ones to Me, Those who have cut a covenant with Me by sacrifice.”" 
Psalms50:6 And the heavens declare His righteousness, For God Himself is judge. Selah." 
Psalms50:7 “Hear, O My people, and I will speak; O Israel, I will testify against you; I am God, your God." 
Psalms50:8 I do not reprove you for your sacrifices, And your burnt offerings are continually before Me." 
Psalms50:9 I shall take no young bull out of your house Nor male goats out of your folds. 
Psalms50:10 For every beast of the forest is Mine, The cattle on a thousand hills." 
Psalms50:11 I know every bird of the mountains, And everything that moves in the field is Mine." 
Psalms50:12 If I were hungry I would not tell you, For the world is Mine, as well as its fullness." 
Psalms50:13 Shall I eat the flesh of bulls Or drink the blood of male goats? 
Psalms50:14 Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving And pay your vows to the Most High; 
Psalms50:15 Call upon Me in the day of distress; I shall rescue you, and you will glorify Me.”" 
Psalms50:16 But to the wicked God says, “What right have you to recount My statutes And to take My covenant in your mouth?" 
Psalms50:17 For you hate discipline, And you cast My words behind you." 
Psalms50:18 When you see a thief, you are pleased with him, And you associate with adulterers." 
Psalms50:19 You let your mouth loose in evil And you harness your tongue for deceit. 
Psalms50:20 You sit and speak against your brother; You slander your own mother’s son. 
Psalms50:21 These things you have done and I kept silent; You thought that I was just like you; I will reprove you and state the case in order before your eyes. 
Psalms50:22 “Now consider this, you who forget God, Lest I tear you in pieces, and there will be none to deliver." 
Psalms50:23 He who offers a sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifies Me; And he who orders his way, I shall show the salvation of God.”" 
Psalms51:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. When Nathan the prophet came to him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba. Be gracious to me, O God, according to Your lovingkindness; According to the abundance of Your compassion blot out my transgressions." 
Psalms51:2 Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity And cleanse me from my sin. 
Psalms51:3 For I know my transgressions, And my sin is ever before me." 
Psalms51:4 Against You, You only, I have sinned And done what is evil in Your sight, So that You are justified when You speak And pure when You judge." 
Psalms51:5 Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, And in sin my mother conceived me." 
Psalms51:6 Behold, You delight in truth in the innermost being, And in the hidden part You will make me know wisdom." 
Psalms51:7 Purify me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow." 
Psalms51:8 Make me to hear joy and gladness, Let the bones which You have crushed rejoice." 
Psalms51:9 Hide Your face from my sins And blot out all my iniquities. 
Psalms51:10 Create in me a clean heart, O God, And renew a steadfast spirit within me." 
Psalms51:11 Do not cast me away from Your presence And do not take Your Holy Spirit from me. 
Psalms51:12 Restore to me the joy of Your salvation And sustain me with a willing spirit. 
Psalms51:13 Then I will teach transgressors Your ways, And sinners will be converted to You." 
Psalms51:14 Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, the God of my salvation; Then my tongue will joyfully sing of Your righteousness." 
Psalms51:15 O Lord, open my lips, That my mouth may declare Your praise." 
Psalms51:16 For You do not delight in sacrifice, otherwise I would give it; You are not pleased with burnt offering." 
Psalms51:17 The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; A broken and a contrite heart, O God, You will not despise." 
Psalms51:18 By Your favor do good to Zion; Build the walls of Jerusalem. 
Psalms51:19 Then You will delight in righteous sacrifices, In burnt offering and whole burnt offering; Then young bulls will be offered on Your altar." 
Psalms52:1 For the choir director. A Maskil of David. When Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul and said to him, “David has come to the house of Ahimelech.” Why do you boast in evil, O mighty man? The lovingkindness of God endures all day long." 
Psalms52:2 Your tongue devises destruction, Like a sharp razor, O worker of deceit." 
Psalms52:3 You love evil more than good, Falsehood more than speaking what is right. Selah." 
Psalms52:4 You love all words that devour, O deceitful tongue." 
Psalms52:5 But God will break you down forever; He will snatch you up and tear you away from your tent, And uproot you from the land of the living, Selah." 
Psalms52:6 So that the righteous will see and fear, And will laugh at him, saying," 
Psalms52:7 “Behold, the man who would not set God as his strength, But trusted in the abundance of his riches And was strong in his destruction.”" 
Psalms52:8 But as for me, I am like a green olive tree in the house of God; I trust in the lovingkindness of God forever and ever." 
Psalms52:9 I will give You thanks forever, because You have done it, And I will hope on Your name, for it is good, in the presence of Your holy ones." 
Psalms53:1 For the choir director. According to Mahalath. A Maskil of David. The wicked fool says in his heart, “There is no God,” They act corruptly, and commit abominable injustice; There is no one who does good." 
Psalms53:2 God looks down from heaven upon the sons of men To see if there is anyone who has insight, Anyone who seeks after God." 
Psalms53:3 Every one of them has turned back; together they have become worthless; There is no one who does good, not even one." 
Psalms53:4 Do the workers of iniquity not know, Who eat up my people as they eat bread And do not call upon God?" 
Psalms53:5 There they were in great dread where no dread had been; For God scattered the bones of him who encamped against you; You put them to shame, because God had rejected them." 
Psalms53:6 Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When God restores His captive people, May Jacob rejoice, may Israel be glad." 
Psalms54:1 For the choir director. With stringed instruments. A Maskil of David. When the Ziphites came and said to Saul, “Is not David hiding himself among us?” O God, save me by Your name, And render justice to me by Your might." 
Psalms54:2 O God, hear my prayer; Give ear to the words of my mouth." 
Psalms54:3 For strangers have risen against me And ruthless men have sought my life; They have not set God before them. Selah. 
Psalms54:4 Behold, God is my helper; The Lord is among those who sustain my soul." 
Psalms54:5 He will return the evil to my foes; Destroy them in Your truth. 
Psalms54:6 With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to You; I will give thanks to Your name, O Yahweh, for it is good." 
Psalms54:7 For He has delivered me from all distress, And my eye has looked in triumph upon my enemies." 
Psalms55:1 For the choir director. With stringed instruments. A Maskil of David. Give ear to my prayer, O God; And do not hide Yourself from my supplication." 
Psalms55:2 Give heed to me and answer me; I am restless in my complaint and am surely distracted," 
Psalms55:3 Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the pressure of the wicked; For they shake wickedness down upon me And in anger they bear a grudge against me." 
Psalms55:4 My heart is in anguish within me, And the terrors of death have fallen upon me." 
Psalms55:5 Fear and trembling come upon me, And horror has covered me." 
Psalms55:6 I said, “Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest." 
Psalms55:7 Behold, I would wander far away, I would lodge in the wilderness. Selah." 
Psalms55:8 I would hasten to my place of refuge From the stormy wind and tempest.” 
Psalms55:9 Confuse, O Lord, divide their tongues, For I have seen violence and strife in the city." 
Psalms55:10 Day and night they go around her upon her walls, And wickedness and mischief are in her midst." 
Psalms55:11 Destruction is in her midst; Oppression and deceit do not depart from her streets. 
Psalms55:12 For it is not an enemy who reproaches me, Then I could bear it; Nor is it one who hates me who has magnified himself against me, Then I could hide myself from him." 
Psalms55:13 But it is you, a man my equal, My close companion and my familiar friend;" 
Psalms55:14 We who had sweet counsel together Walked in the house of God in the throng. 
Psalms55:15 Let death come deceitfully upon them; Let them go down alive to Sheol, For evil is in their dwelling, in their midst." 
Psalms55:16 As for me, I shall call upon God, And Yahweh will save me." 
Psalms55:17 Evening and morning and at noon, I will bring my complaint and moan, And He will hear my voice." 
Psalms55:18 He will redeem my soul in peace from the battle which is against me, For they are many who strive with me." 
Psalms55:19 God will hear and answer them— Even the one who sits enthroned from of old— Selah. Because they do not change, And do not fear God." 
Psalms55:20 My companion has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him; He has violated his covenant. 
Psalms55:21 His speech was smoother than butter, But his heart was war; His words were softer than oil, Yet they were drawn swords." 
Psalms55:22 Cast your burden upon Yahweh and He will sustain you; He will never allow the righteous to be shaken. 
Psalms55:23 But You, O God, will bring them down to the pit of corruption; Men of bloodshed and deceit will not live out half their days. But I will trust in You." 
Psalms56:1 For the choir director. According to Jonath Elem Rehokim. A Mikhtam of David. When the Philistines seized him in Gath. Be gracious to me, O God, for man has trampled upon me; All day long, an attacker oppresses me." 
Psalms56:2 My foes have trampled upon me all day long, For many attack me proudly." 
Psalms56:3 When I am afraid, I will trust in You." 
Psalms56:4 In God, whose word I praise, In God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can mere man do to me?" 
Psalms56:5 All day long they distort my words; All their thoughts are against me for evil. 
Psalms56:6 They attack, they lurk, They watch my heels, As they have hoped to take my life." 
Psalms56:7 On account of their wickedness, will they have an escape? In anger, bring down the peoples, O God!" 
Psalms56:8 You have taken account of my wanderings; Put my tears in Your bottle. Are they not in Your book? 
Psalms56:9 Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call; This I know, that God is for me." 
Psalms56:10 In God, whose word I praise, In Yahweh, whose word I praise," 
Psalms56:11 In God I trust, I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me?" 
Psalms56:12 Your vows are binding upon me, O God; I will fulfill thank offerings to You." 
Psalms56:13 For You have delivered my soul from death, Indeed my feet from stumbling, So that I may walk before God In the light of the living." 
Psalms57:1 For the choir director. Al-tashheth. Of David. A Mikhtam. When he fled from Saul in the cave. Be gracious to me, O God, be gracious to me, For my soul takes refuge in You; And in the shadow of Your wings I will take refuge Until destruction passes by." 
Psalms57:2 I will call to God Most High, To God who accomplishes all things for me." 
Psalms57:3 He will send from heaven and save me; He reproaches him who tramples upon me. Selah. God will send His lovingkindness and His truth. 
Psalms57:4 My soul is among lions; I am lying down among those who breathe forth fire, Sons of men whose teeth are spears and arrows And their tongue a sharp sword." 
Psalms57:5 Be exalted above the heavens, O God; Let Your glory be above all the earth." 
Psalms57:6 They have set a net for my steps; My soul is bowed down; They dug a pit before me; They themselves have fallen into the midst of it. Selah. 
Psalms57:7 My heart is set, O God, my heart is set; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises!" 
Psalms57:8 Awake, my glory! Awake, harp and lyre! I will awaken the dawn." 
Psalms57:9 I will give thanks to You, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to You among the nations." 
Psalms57:10 For Your lovingkindness is great to the heavens And Your truth to the skies. 
Psalms57:11 Be exalted above the heavens, O God; Let Your glory be above all the earth." 
Psalms58:1 For the choir director. Al-tashheth. Of David. A Mikhtam. Do you indeed speak righteousness, O gods? Do you judge with equity, O sons of men?" 
Psalms58:2 No, in heart you work unrighteousness; On earth you prepare a path for the violence of your hands." 
Psalms58:3 The wicked are estranged from the womb; These who speak falsehood wander in error from birth. 
Psalms58:4 They have venom like the venom of a serpent; Like a deaf cobra that stops up its ear," 
Psalms58:5 So that it does not hear the voice of charmers, Or a skillful caster of spells." 
Psalms58:6 O God, shatter their teeth in their mouth; Break out the fangs of the young lions, O Yahweh." 
Psalms58:7 Let them flow away like water that runs off; When he aims his arrows, let them be as headless shafts." 
Psalms58:8 Let them be as a snail which melts away as it goes along, Like the miscarriages of a woman which never behold the sun." 
Psalms58:9 Before your pots can feel the fire of thorns He will sweep them away with a whirlwind, the living and the burning alike." 
Psalms58:10 The righteous will be glad when he beholds the vengeance; He will wash his feet in the blood of the wicked. 
Psalms58:11 And men will say, “Surely there is a reward for the righteous; Surely there is a God who judges on earth!”" 
Psalms59:1 For the choir director. Al-tashheth. Of David. A Mikhtam. When Saul sent men and they watched the house in order to put him to death. Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; Set me securely on high away from those who rise up against me." 
Psalms59:2 Deliver me from workers of iniquity And save me from men of bloodshed. 
Psalms59:3 For behold, they have lain in wait for my soul; Fierce men launch an attack against me, Not for my transgression nor for my sin, O Yahweh," 
Psalms59:4 For no guilt of mine, they run and set themselves against me. Arouse Yourself to meet me, and see!" 
Psalms59:5 You, O Yahweh God of hosts, the God of Israel, Awake to punish all the nations; Do not be gracious to any who are treacherous in iniquity. Selah." 
Psalms59:6 They return at evening, they howl like a dog, And go around the city." 
Psalms59:7 Behold, they pour forth speech with their mouth; Swords are in their lips, For, they say, “Who hears?”" 
Psalms59:8 But You, O Yahweh, laugh at them; You mock all the nations." 
Psalms59:9 Because of his strength I will watch for You, For God is my stronghold." 
Psalms59:10 My God in His lovingkindness will approach me; God will let me look triumphantly upon my foes. 
Psalms59:11 Do not slay them, or my people will forget; Make them wander about by Your power, and bring them down, O Lord, our shield." 
Psalms59:12 On account of the sin of their mouth and the word of their lips, Let them even be caught in their pride, And on account of curses and lies which they utter." 
Psalms59:13 Destroy them in wrath, destroy them that they may be no more; That men may know that God rules in Jacob To the ends of the earth. Selah." 
Psalms59:14 They return at evening, they howl like a dog, And go around the city." 
Psalms59:15 They wander about for food And growl if they are not satisfied. 
Psalms59:16 But as for me, I shall sing of Your strength; And I shall joyfully sing of Your lovingkindness in the morning, For You have been my stronghold And a refuge in the day of my distress." 
Psalms59:17 O my strength, I will sing praises to You; For God is my stronghold, the God who shows me lovingkindness." 
Psalms60:1 For the choir director. According to Shushan Eduth. A Mikhtam of David. For teaching. When he struggled with Aram-naharaim and with Aram-zobah, and Joab returned, and smote twelve thousand of Edom in the Valley of Salt. O God, You have rejected us. You have broken us; You have been angry; Oh, restore us." 
Psalms60:2 You have made the land quake, You have split it open; Heal its breaches, for it shakes." 
Psalms60:3 You have caused Your people to see hardship; You have given us wine to drink that causes reeling. 
Psalms60:4 You have given a banner to those who fear You, In order to flee to it from the bow. Selah." 
Psalms60:5 That Your beloved may be rescued, Save with Your right hand, and answer us!" 
Psalms60:6 God has spoken in His holiness: “I will exult, I will portion out Shechem and measure out the valley of Succoth." 
Psalms60:7 Gilead is Mine, and Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is the helmet of My head; Judah is My scepter." 
Psalms60:8 Moab is My washbowl; Over Edom I shall throw My shoe; Make a loud shout, O Philistia, because of Me!”" 
Psalms60:9 Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? 
Psalms60:10 Have You Yourself, O God, not rejected us? And will You, O God, not go forth with our armies?" 
Psalms60:11 Oh give us help against the adversary, For salvation by man is worthless." 
Psalms60:12 Through God we shall do valiantly, And it is He who will tread down our adversaries." 
Psalms61:1 For the choir director. On a stringed instrument. Of David. Hear my cry of lamentation, O God; Give heed to my prayer." 
Psalms61:2 From the end of the earth I call to You when my heart is faint; Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. 
Psalms61:3 For You have been a refuge for me, A tower of strength before the enemy." 
Psalms61:4 Let me sojourn in Your tent forever; Let me take refuge in the shelter of Your wings. Selah. 
Psalms61:5 For You, O God, have heard my vows; You have given me the inheritance of those who fear Your name." 
Psalms61:6 You will add days to the king’s life; His years will be from generation to generation. 
Psalms61:7 He will sit enthroned before God forever; Appoint lovingkindness and truth that they may guard him. 
Psalms61:8 So I will sing praise to Your name forever, As I pay my vows day by day." 
Psalms62:1 For the choir director. According to Jeduthun. A Psalm of David. Surely my soul waits in silence for God; From Him is my salvation. 
Psalms62:2 Surely He is my rock and my salvation, My stronghold; I shall not be greatly shaken." 
Psalms62:3 How long will you assail a man, That you may murder him, all of you, Like a leaning wall, like a fence thrust down?" 
Psalms62:4 Surely they have counseled to thrust him down from his high position; They find pleasure in falsehood; They bless with their mouth, But inwardly they curse. Selah." 
Psalms62:5 Surely wait in silence for God, O my soul, For my hope is from Him." 
Psalms62:6 Surely He is my rock and my salvation, My stronghold; I shall not be shaken." 
Psalms62:7 On God my salvation and my glory rest; The rock of my strength, my refuge is in God." 
Psalms62:8 Trust in Him at all times, O people; Pour out your heart before Him; God is a refuge for us. Selah." 
Psalms62:9 Surely men of low degree are merely vanity and men of rank are a lie; In the balances they go up; They are together lighter than a breath of vanity. 
Psalms62:10 Do not trust in oppression And do not put vain hope in robbery; If riches increase, do not set your heart upon them." 
Psalms62:11 Once God has spoken; Twice I have heard this: That strength belongs to God; 
Psalms62:12 And that to You, O Lord, belongs lovingkindness, For You repay a man according to his work." 
Psalms63:1 A Psalm of David. When he was in the wilderness of Judah. O God, You are my God; I shall seek You earnestly; My soul thirsts for You, my flesh yearns for You, In a dry and weary land without water." 
Psalms63:2 Thus I have beheld You in the sanctuary, To see Your power and Your glory." 
Psalms63:3 Because Your lovingkindness is better than life, My lips will laud You." 
Psalms63:4 Thus I will bless You as long as I live; I will lift up my hands in Your name. 
Psalms63:5 My soul is satisfied as with fatness and richness, And my mouth offers praises with lips of joyful songs." 
Psalms63:6 When I remember You on my bed, I meditate on You in the night watches," 
Psalms63:7 For You have been my help, And in the shadow of Your wings I sing for joy." 
Psalms63:8 My soul clings to You; Your right hand upholds me. 
Psalms63:9 But those who seek my life to destroy it, Will go into the depths of the earth." 
Psalms63:10 They will be delivered over to the power of the sword; They will be a portion for foxes. 
Psalms63:11 But the king will be glad in God; Everyone who swears by Him will boast, For the mouths of those who speak lies will be closed." 
Psalms64:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint; Guard my life from dread of the enemy." 
Psalms64:2 Hide me from the secret counsel of evildoers, From the tumult of the workers of iniquity," 
Psalms64:3 Who have sharpened their tongue like a sword. They aimed bitter speech as their arrow," 
Psalms64:4 To shoot from places of hiding at the blameless; Suddenly they shoot at him, and do not fear." 
Psalms64:5 They hold fast to themselves an evil purpose; They talk of laying snares secretly; They say, “Who can see them?”" 
Psalms64:6 They searched out unrighteousness, saying, “We have completed a diligent search”; For the inward thought of a man and his heart are deep." 
Psalms64:7 But God will shoot them with an arrow; Suddenly they will be wounded. 
Psalms64:8 So they will cause their own tongue to turn against them; All who see them will shake their head. 
Psalms64:9 Then all men will fear, And they will declare the work of God, And will consider what He has done." 
Psalms64:10 The righteous man will be glad in Yahweh and will take refuge in Him; And all the upright in heart will boast. 
Psalms65:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. A Song. To You, there will be silence and praise in Zion, O God, And to You the vow will be paid." 
Psalms65:2 O You who hear prayer, To You all flesh comes." 
Psalms65:3 Words of iniquity prevail against me; As for our transgressions, You atone for them." 
Psalms65:4 How blessed is the one whom You choose and bring near to You That he would dwell in Your courts. We will be satisfied with the goodness of Your house, Your holy temple." 
Psalms65:5 By fearsome deeds You answer us in righteousness, O God of our salvation, You who are the trust of all the ends of the earth and of the farthest sea;" 
Psalms65:6 Who establishes the mountains by His strength, Being girded with might;" 
Psalms65:7 Who stills the rumbling of the seas, The rumbling of their waves, And the tumult of the peoples." 
Psalms65:8 They who inhabit the ends of the earth are in fear on account of Your signs; You make the dawn and the sunset shout for joy. 
Psalms65:9 You visit the earth and cause it to overflow; You greatly enrich it; The stream of God is full of water; You establish their grain, for thus You establish the earth." 
Psalms65:10 You water its furrows abundantly, You smooth its ridges, You soften it with showers, You bless its growth." 
Psalms65:11 You crown the year with Your goodness, And Your paths drip with richness." 
Psalms65:12 The pastures of the wilderness drip, And the hills gird themselves with rejoicing." 
Psalms65:13 The meadows are clothed with flocks And the valleys are covered with grain; They make a loud shout, indeed, they sing." 
Psalms66:1 For the choir director. A Song. A Psalm. Make a loud shout to God, all the earth;" 
Psalms66:2 Sing praise for the glory of His name; Establish His praise as glorious. 
Psalms66:3 Say to God, “How fearsome are Your works! Because of the abundance of Your strength Your enemies will cower before You." 
Psalms66:4 All the earth will worship You, And will sing praises to You; They will sing praises to Your name.” Selah." 
Psalms66:5 Come and see the works of God, Who is fearsome in His deeds toward the sons of men." 
Psalms66:6 He turned the sea into dry land; They passed through the river on foot; There let us be glad in Him! 
Psalms66:7 He rules by His might forever; His eyes keep watch on the nations; Let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah. 
Psalms66:8 Bless our God, O peoples, And make the sound of His praise heard," 
Psalms66:9 Who establishes us among the living And does not allow our feet to stumble. 
Psalms66:10 For You have tested us, O God; You have refined us as silver is refined." 
Psalms66:11 You brought us into the net; You established an oppressive burden upon our loins. 
Psalms66:12 You made men ride over our heads; We went through fire and through water, Yet You brought us out into a place of abundance." 
Psalms66:13 I shall come into Your house with burnt offerings; I shall pay You my vows," 
Psalms66:14 Which my lips uttered And my mouth spoke when I was in distress. 
Psalms66:15 I shall offer to You burnt offerings of fat beasts, With the smoke of rams; I shall make an offering of bulls with male goats. Selah." 
Psalms66:16 Come and hear, all who fear God, And I will recount what He has done for my soul." 
Psalms66:17 I called out to Him with my mouth, And He was exalted with my tongue." 
Psalms66:18 If I see wickedness in my heart, The Lord will not hear;" 
Psalms66:19 But certainly God has heard; He has given heed to the voice of my prayer. 
Psalms66:20 Blessed be God, Who has not turned away my prayer Nor His lovingkindness from me." 
Psalms67:1 For the choir director. With stringed instruments. A Psalm. A Song. God be gracious to us and bless us, And cause His face to shine upon us— Selah." 
Psalms67:2 That Your way may be known on the earth, Your salvation among all nations." 
Psalms67:3 Let the peoples praise You, O God; Let all the peoples praise You." 
Psalms67:4 Let the nations be glad and sing for joy; For You will judge the peoples with uprightness And lead the nations on the earth. Selah. 
Psalms67:5 Let the peoples praise You, O God; Let all the peoples praise You." 
Psalms67:6 The earth has yielded its produce; God, our God, blesses us." 
Psalms67:7 God blesses us, That all the ends of the earth may fear Him." 
Psalms68:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. A Song. Let God arise, let His enemies be scattered, And let those who hate Him flee before Him." 
Psalms68:2 As smoke is driven away, so drive them away; As wax melts before the fire, So let the wicked perish before God." 
Psalms68:3 But let the righteous be glad; let them exult before God; And let them rejoice with gladness. 
Psalms68:4 Sing to God, sing praises to His name; Lift up a song for Him who rides through the deserts, Whose name is Yah, and exult before Him." 
Psalms68:5 A father of the fatherless and a judge for the widows, Is God in His holy habitation." 
Psalms68:6 God causes the lonely to inhabit a home; He leads out the prisoners into prosperity, Only the rebellious dwell in a parched land." 
Psalms68:7 O God, when You went forth before Your people, When You marched through the wasteland, Selah." 
Psalms68:8 The earth quaked; The heavens also dripped rain at the presence of God; Sinai itself quaked at the presence of God, the God of Israel." 
Psalms68:9 You caused abundant rain to sprinkle down, O God; You established Your inheritance when it was parched." 
Psalms68:10 Your creatures inhabited it; You established it in Your goodness for the poor, O God." 
Psalms68:11 The Lord gives the word; The women who proclaim the good news are a great host: 
Psalms68:12 “Kings of armies retreat, they retreat, And she who remains at home will divide the spoil!”" 
Psalms68:13 If you men lie down among the sheepfolds, You all would be like the wings of a dove covered with silver, And its pinions with glistening gold." 
Psalms68:14 When the Almighty dispersed the kings there, It was snowing in Zalmon." 
Psalms68:15 A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan; A mountain of many peaks is the mountain of Bashan. 
Psalms68:16 Why do you look with envy, O mountains with many peaks, At the mountain which God has prized for His habitation? Surely Yahweh will dwell there forever." 
Psalms68:17 The chariots of God are myriads, thousands upon thousands; The Lord is among them as at Sinai, in holiness." 
Psalms68:18 You have ascended on high, You have led captive Your captives; You have received gifts among men, Even among the rebellious also, that Yah—God—may dwell there." 
Psalms68:19 Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears our burden, The God who is our salvation. Selah." 
Psalms68:20 God is to us a God of salvation; And to Yahweh the Lord belong escapes from death. 
Psalms68:21 Surely God will crush the head of His enemies, The hairy skull of him who goes on in his guilty deeds." 
Psalms68:22 The Lord said, “I will bring them back from Bashan. I will bring them back from the depths of the sea;" 
Psalms68:23 That your foot may crush them in blood, The tongue of your dogs may have its portion from your enemies.”" 
Psalms68:24 They have seen Your procession, O God, The procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary." 
Psalms68:25 The singers went on, the musicians after them, In the midst of the maidens beating tambourines." 
Psalms68:26 Bless God in the congregations, Yahweh, the fountain of Israel." 
Psalms68:27 There is Benjamin, the youngest, having dominion over them, The princes of Judah in their throng, The princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali." 
Psalms68:28 Your God has commanded your strength; Show Yourself strong, O God, who has worked on our behalf." 
Psalms68:29 Because of Your temple at Jerusalem Kings will bring gifts to You. 
Psalms68:30 Rebuke the beast in the reeds, The herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples, Trampling under foot the pieces of silver; He has cast out the peoples who delight in war." 
Psalms68:31 Envoys will come out of Egypt; Ethiopia will quickly stretch out her hands to God. 
Psalms68:32 Sing to God, O kingdoms of the earth, Sing praises to the Lord, Selah." 
Psalms68:33 To Him who rides upon the highest heavens, which are from ancient times; Behold, He gives forth His voice, a voice that is strong." 
Psalms68:34 Ascribe strength to God; His majesty is over Israel And His strength is in the skies. 
Psalms68:35 O God, You are awesome from Your sanctuary. The God of Israel Himself gives strength and might to the people. Blessed be God!" 
Psalms69:1 For the choir director. According to Shoshannim. Of David. Save me, O God, For the waters have threatened my life." 
Psalms69:2 I have sunk in deep clay, and there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, and a flood overflows me." 
Psalms69:3 I am weary with my calling out; my throat is parched; My eyes fail while I wait for my God. 
Psalms69:4 Those who hate me without cause are more than the hairs of my head; Those who would destroy me are powerful, being wrongfully my enemies; What I did not steal, I then have to restore." 
Psalms69:5 O God, it is You who knows my folly, And all my guilt is not hidden from You." 
Psalms69:6 May those who hope for You not be ashamed through me, O Lord Yahweh of hosts; May those who seek You not be dishonored through me, O God of Israel," 
Psalms69:7 Because for Your sake I have borne reproach; Dishonor has covered my face. 
Psalms69:8 I have become estranged from my brothers And a foreigner to my mother’s sons. 
Psalms69:9 For zeal for Your house has consumed me, And the reproaches of those who reproach You have fallen on me." 
Psalms69:10 When I wept in my soul with fasting, It became my reproach." 
Psalms69:11 When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them." 
Psalms69:12 Those who dwell at the gate moan about me, And I am the drunkards’ songs." 
Psalms69:13 But as for me, my prayer is to You, O Yahweh, at an acceptable time; O God, in the abundance of Your lovingkindness, Answer me with the truth of Your salvation." 
Psalms69:14 Deliver me from the mire and do not let me sink; May I be delivered from my foes and from the deep waters. 
Psalms69:15 May the flood of water not overflow me Nor the deep swallow me up, Nor the pit shut its mouth on me." 
Psalms69:16 Answer me, O Yahweh, for Your lovingkindness is good; According to the abundance of Your compassion, turn to me," 
Psalms69:17 And do not hide Your face from Your slave, For I am in distress; answer me quickly." 
Psalms69:18 Oh draw near to my soul and redeem it; Ransom me because of my enemies! 
Psalms69:19 You know my reproach and my shame and my dishonor; All my adversaries are before You. 
Psalms69:20 Reproach has broken my heart and I am so sick. And I hoped for sympathy, but there was none, And for comforters, but I found none." 
Psalms69:21 They also gave me gall for my food And for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. 
Psalms69:22 May their table before them become a snare; And when they are in peace, may it become a trap." 
Psalms69:23 May their eyes darken so that they cannot see, And make their loins quake continually." 
Psalms69:24 Pour out Your indignation on them, And may Your burning anger overtake them." 
Psalms69:25 May their camp be desolate; May none dwell in their tents. 
Psalms69:26 For they have persecuted him whom You Yourself have struck down, And they recount the pain of those whom You have wounded." 
Psalms69:27 Add iniquity to their iniquity, And may they not come into Your righteousness." 
Psalms69:28 May they be blotted out of the book of life And may they not be recorded with the righteous. 
Psalms69:29 But I am afflicted and in pain; May Your salvation, O God, set me securely on high." 
Psalms69:30 I will praise the name of God with song And magnify Him with thanksgiving. 
Psalms69:31 And this will please Yahweh better than an ox Or a young bull with horns and hoofs. 
Psalms69:32 The humble see it and are glad; You who seek God, let your heart revive." 
Psalms69:33 For Yahweh hears the needy And does not despise His who are prisoners. 
Psalms69:34 Let heaven and earth praise Him, The seas and everything that moves in them." 
Psalms69:35 For God will save Zion and build the cities of Judah, That they may dwell there and possess it." 
Psalms69:36 The seed of His slaves will inherit it, And those who love His name will dwell in it." 
Psalms70:1 For the choir director. Of David. To bring to remembrance. O God, hasten to deliver me; O Yahweh, hasten to my help!" 
Psalms70:2 Let those be ashamed and humiliated Who seek my life; Let those be turned back and dishonored Who delight in evil against me. 
Psalms70:3 Let those turn back because of their shame Who say, “Aha, aha!”" 
Psalms70:4 Let those be joyful and glad in You All who seek You And let them say continually, “Let God be magnified,” Those who love Your salvation." 
Psalms70:5 But I am afflicted and needy; Hasten to me, O God! You are my help and my protector; O Yahweh, do not delay." 
Psalms71:1 In You, O Yahweh, I have taken refuge; Let me never be ashamed." 
Psalms71:2 In Your righteousness deliver me and protect me; Incline Your ear to me and save me. 
Psalms71:3 Be to me a rock of habitation to which I may continually come; You have given the command to save me, For You are my rock and my fortress." 
Psalms71:4 Protect me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, Out of the grasp of the unrighteous and ruthless man," 
Psalms71:5 For You are my hope; O Lord Yahweh, You are my trust from my youth." 
Psalms71:6 By You I have been sustained from my birth; You are He who took me from my mother’s womb; My praise is continually of You. 
Psalms71:7 I have become a marvel to many, For You are my strong refuge." 
Psalms71:8 My mouth is filled with Your praise And with Your beauty all day long. 
Psalms71:9 Do not cast me off in the time of old age; Do not forsake me when my strength fails. 
Psalms71:10 For my enemies have spoken against me; And those who watch my life have counseled together," 
Psalms71:11 Saying, “God has forsaken him; Pursue and seize him, for there is no one to deliver.”" 
Psalms71:12 O God, do not be far from me; O my God, hasten to my help!" 
Psalms71:13 Let those who accuse my soul be ashamed and consumed; Let them be wrapped up with reproach and dishonor, who seek to do me evil." 
Psalms71:14 But as for me, I will wait continually, And will praise You yet more and more." 
Psalms71:15 My mouth shall recount Your righteousness And Your salvation all day long; For I do not know the sum of them. 
Psalms71:16 I will come with the mighty deeds of Lord Yahweh; I will bring to remembrance Your righteousness, Yours alone." 
Psalms71:17 O God, You have taught me from my youth, And I still declare Your wondrous deeds." 
Psalms71:18 And even when I am old and gray, O God, do not forsake me, Until I declare Your strength to this generation, Your might to all who are to come." 
Psalms71:19 For Your righteousness, O God, reaches to the heavens, You who have done great things; O God, who is like You?" 
Psalms71:20 You, who have shown me many troubles and evils, Will revive me again, And will bring me up again from the depths of the earth." 
Psalms71:21 May You increase my greatness And turn to comfort me. 
Psalms71:22 I will also praise You with a harp, Even Your truth, O my God; To You I will sing praises with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel." 
Psalms71:23 My lips will sing for joy when I sing praises to You; And my soul, which You have redeemed." 
Psalms71:24 My tongue also will utter Your righteousness all day long; For they are ashamed, for they are humiliated who seek to do me evil." 
Psalms72:1 Of Solomon. O God, give the king Your judgments, And Your righteousness to the king’s son." 
Psalms72:2 May he render judgment to Your people with righteousness And Your afflicted with justice. 
Psalms72:3 Let the mountains lift up peace to the people, And the hills, in righteousness." 
Psalms72:4 May he give justice to the afflicted of the people, Save the children of the needy, And crush the oppressor." 
Psalms72:5 Let them fear You while the sun endures, And as long as the moon, from generation to all generations." 
Psalms72:6 May he come down like rain upon the mown grass, Like showers that water the earth." 
Psalms72:7 May the righteous flourish in his days, And abundance of peace until the moon is no more." 
Psalms72:8 May he also have dominion from sea to sea And from the River to the ends of the earth. 
Psalms72:9 Let the desert creatures kneel before him, And his enemies lick the dust." 
Psalms72:10 Let the kings of Tarshish and of the coastlands bring a present; The kings of Sheba and Seba offer tribute. 
Psalms72:11 And let all kings bow down to him, All nations serve him." 
Psalms72:12 For he will deliver the needy when he cries for help, The afflicted also, and him who has no helper." 
Psalms72:13 He will have compassion on the poor and needy, And the lives of the needy he will save." 
Psalms72:14 He will redeem their life from oppression and violence, And their blood will be precious in his sight;" 
Psalms72:15 So may he live! And may they give to him the gold of Sheba; And let each pray for him continually; Let each bless him all day long. 
Psalms72:16 May there be abundance of grain in the earth on top of the mountains; May its fruit wave like the cedars of Lebanon; And may those from the city blossom like vegetation of the earth. 
Psalms72:17 May his name endure forever; May his name increase as long as the sun shines; Let all nations be blessed in him; Let all nations call him blessed. 
Psalms72:18 Blessed be Yahweh God, the God of Israel, Who alone works wondrous deeds." 
Psalms72:19 And blessed be His glorious name forever; And may the whole earth be filled with His glory. Amen, and Amen." 
Psalms72:20 The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are completed." 
Psalms73:1 A Psalm of Asaph. Surely God is good to Israel, To those who are pure in heart!" 
Psalms73:2 But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, My steps had almost slipped." 
Psalms73:3 For I was envious of the boastful, I saw the peace of the wicked." 
Psalms73:4 For there are no pains in their death, And their body is fat." 
Psalms73:5 They are not in trouble as other men, And they are not stricken along with the rest of mankind." 
Psalms73:6 Therefore lofty pride is their necklace; The garment of violence covers them. 
Psalms73:7 Their eye bulges from fatness; The delusions of their heart overflow. 
Psalms73:8 They scoff and wickedly speak of oppression; They speak from on high. 
Psalms73:9 They have set their mouth against the heavens, And their tongue goes through the earth." 
Psalms73:10 Therefore his people return here, to his place, And waters of fullness are drunk by them." 
Psalms73:11 They say, “How does God know? And is there knowledge with the Most High?”" 
Psalms73:12 Behold, these are the wicked; And always at ease, they have increased in wealth." 
Psalms73:13 Surely in vain I have kept my heart pure And washed my hands in innocence; 
Psalms73:14 For I have been stricken all day long And reproved every morning. 
Psalms73:15 If I had said, “I will recount thus,” Behold, I would have betrayed the generation of Your children." 
Psalms73:16 When I gave thought to know this, It was trouble in my sight" 
Psalms73:17 Until I came into the sanctuary of God; Then I understood their end. 
Psalms73:18 Surely You set them in slippery places; You cause them to fall to destruction. 
Psalms73:19 How they become desolate in a moment! They are completely swept away by terrors! 
Psalms73:20 Like a dream when one awakes, O Lord, when aroused, You will despise their form." 
Psalms73:21 When my heart was embittered And I was pierced within," 
Psalms73:22 Then I was senseless and ignorant; I was like an animal before You. 
Psalms73:23 Nevertheless I am continually with You; You have taken hold of my right hand. 
Psalms73:24 With Your counsel You will lead me, And afterward take me in glory." 
Psalms73:25 Whom have I in heaven but You? And besides You, I desire nothing on earth." 
Psalms73:26 My flesh and my heart fail, But God is the rock of my heart and my portion forever." 
Psalms73:27 For, behold, those who are far from You will perish; You have destroyed everyone who is unfaithful to You." 
Psalms73:28 But as for me, the nearness of God is my good; I have set Lord Yahweh as my refuge, That I may recount all Your works." 
Psalms74:1 A Maskil of Asaph. Why, O God? Have You rejected us forever? Why does Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your pasture?" 
Psalms74:2 Remember Your congregation, which You have purchased of old, Which You have redeemed to be the tribe of Your inheritance; And this Mount Zion, where You have dwelt." 
Psalms74:3 Lift up Your steps toward the perpetual ruins; The enemy has damaged everything within the sanctuary. 
Psalms74:4 Your adversaries have roared in the midst of Your meeting place; They have set up their own signs for signs. 
Psalms74:5 Each seems like one who lifts up An axe against the undergrowth of trees. 
Psalms74:6 And now its carved work altogether They smash with hatchet and hammers. 
Psalms74:7 They have set Your sanctuary on fire; By bringing it to the ground, they have defiled the dwelling place of Your name." 
Psalms74:8 They said in their heart, “Let us completely subdue them.” They have burned all the meeting places of God in the land." 
Psalms74:9 We do not see our signs; There is no longer any prophet, Nor is there any among us who knows how long." 
Psalms74:10 How long, O God, will the adversary reproach? Will the enemy spurn Your name forever?" 
Psalms74:11 Why do You turn back Your hand, even Your right hand? From within Your bosom, destroy them!" 
Psalms74:12 Yet God is my King from of old, Who works deeds of salvation in the midst of the earth." 
Psalms74:13 You divided the sea by Your strength; You broke the heads of the sea monsters in the waters. 
Psalms74:14 You crushed the heads of Leviathan; You gave him as food for the creatures of the desert. 
Psalms74:15 You split open spring and river; You dried up ever‑flowing rivers. 
Psalms74:16 Yours is the day, Yours also is the night; You have established the light and the sun." 
Psalms74:17 You have caused all the boundaries of the earth to stand firm; You have formed summer and winter. 
Psalms74:18 Remember this, O Yahweh, that the enemy has reproached, And a wickedly foolish people has spurned Your name." 
Psalms74:19 Do not deliver the soul of Your turtledove to the wild beast; Do not forget the life of Your afflicted forever. 
Psalms74:20 Look to the covenant; For the dark places of the land are full of the haunts of violence. 
Psalms74:21 Let not the oppressed return dishonored; Let the afflicted and needy praise Your name. 
Psalms74:22 Arise, O God, and plead Your own cause; Remember how the wicked fool reproaches You all day long." 
Psalms74:23 Do not forget the voice of Your adversaries, The rumbling of those who rise against You which ascends continually." 
Psalms75:1 For the choir director. Al-tashheth. A Psalm of Asaph. A Song. We give thanks to You, O God, we give thanks, For Your name is near; Men recount Your wondrous deeds." 
Psalms75:2 “For I select an appointed time, It is I who judge with equity." 
Psalms75:3 The earth and all who dwell in it melt; It is I who have firmly set its pillars. Selah. 
Psalms75:4 I said to the boastful, ‘Do not boast,’ And to the wicked, ‘Do not raise up the horn;" 
Psalms75:5 Do not raise up your horn on high, Nor speak with insolent pride.’”" 
Psalms75:6 For one’s rising up does not come from the east, nor from the west, And not from the desert;" 
Psalms75:7 But God is the Judge; He puts down one and raises up another. 
Psalms75:8 For a cup is in the hand of Yahweh, and the wine foams; It is full of His mixture, and He pours from this; Surely all the wicked of the earth must drain and drink down its dregs." 
Psalms75:9 But as for me, I will declare it forever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob." 
Psalms75:10 And all the horns of the wicked I will cut off, But the horns of the righteous will be raised up." 
Psalms76:1 For the choir director. With stringed instruments. A Psalm of Asaph. A Song. God is known in Judah; His name is great in Israel. 
Psalms76:2 So His tabernacle is in Salem; His dwelling place is in Zion. 
Psalms76:3 There He broke the flaming arrows, The shield and the sword and the battle. Selah." 
Psalms76:4 You are shining, Majestic from the mountains of prey." 
Psalms76:5 The stouthearted were plundered, They sank into sleep; And none of the warriors could use his hands." 
Psalms76:6 At Your rebuke, O God of Jacob, Both chariot rider and horse slumbered into a deep sleep." 
Psalms76:7 But You, You are fearsome; And who can stand in Your presence when once You are angry?" 
Psalms76:8 You made Your cause to be heard from heaven; The earth feared and was quiet 
Psalms76:9 When God arose to judgment, To save all the humble of the earth. Selah." 
Psalms76:10 For the wrath of man shall praise You; With a remnant of wrath You will gird Yourself. 
Psalms76:11 Make vows to Yahweh your God and pay them; Let all who are around Him bring gifts to the Fearsome One. 
Psalms76:12 He will cut off the spirit of princes; He is feared by the kings of the earth. 
Psalms77:1 For the choir director. According to Jeduthun. Of Asaph. A Psalm. My voice rises to God, and I must cry aloud; My voice rises to God, and He will hear me." 
Psalms77:2 In the day of my distress I sought the Lord; In the night my hand was stretched out without weariness; My soul refused to be comforted. 
Psalms77:3 I remember God and I am disturbed; I muse and my spirit faints. Selah. 
Psalms77:4 You have held my eyelids open; I am so troubled that I cannot speak. 
Psalms77:5 I give thought to the days of old, The years of long ago." 
Psalms77:6 I remember my music in the night; I am musing with my heart, And my spirit is searching:" 
Psalms77:7 Will the Lord reject evermore? And will He not be favorable again? 
Psalms77:8 Has His lovingkindness ceased forever? Has His word ended from generation to generation? 
Psalms77:9 Has God forgotten to be gracious, Or has He in anger shut up His compassion? Selah." 
Psalms77:10 Then I said, “It is my grief, That the right hand of the Most High has changed.”" 
Psalms77:11 I shall remember the deeds of Yah; Surely I will remember Your wonders of old. 
Psalms77:12 I will meditate on all Your work And muse on Your deeds. 
Psalms77:13 O God, Your way is holy; What god is great like God?" 
Psalms77:14 You are the God who works wonders; You have made known Your strength among the peoples. 
Psalms77:15 You have by Your arm redeemed Your people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah." 
Psalms77:16 The waters saw You, O God; The waters saw You, they were in anguish; The deeps also trembled." 
Psalms77:17 The clouds poured out water; The skies gave forth a sound; Your arrows went here and there. 
Psalms77:18 The sound of Your thunder was in the whirlwind; The lightnings lit up the world; The earth trembled and shook. 
Psalms77:19 Your way was in the sea And Your paths in the mighty waters, But Your footprints were not known." 
Psalms77:20 You led Your people like a flock By the hand of Moses and Aaron. 
Psalms78:1 A Maskil of Asaph. Give ear, O my people, to my instruction; Incline your ears to the words of my mouth." 
Psalms78:2 I will open my mouth in a parable; I will pour forth dark sayings of old," 
Psalms78:3 Which we have heard and known, And our fathers have recounted to us." 
Psalms78:4 We will not conceal them from their children, But recount to the generation to come the praises of Yahweh, And His strength and His wondrous deeds that He has done." 
Psalms78:5 For He established a testimony in Jacob And set a law in Israel, Which He commanded our fathers That they should teach them to their children," 
Psalms78:6 That the generation to come might know, even the children yet to be born, That they may arise and recount them to their children," 
Psalms78:7 That they should set their confidence in God And not forget the deeds of God, But observe His commandments," 
Psalms78:8 And not be like their fathers, A stubborn and rebellious generation, A generation that did not prepare its heart And whose spirit was not faithful to God." 
Psalms78:9 The sons of Ephraim were archers equipped with bows, Yet they turned back in the day of battle." 
Psalms78:10 They did not keep the covenant of God And refused to walk in His law; 
Psalms78:11 So they forgot His acts And His wondrous deeds that He had shown them. 
Psalms78:12 He did wonders before their fathers In the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan." 
Psalms78:13 He split the sea and caused them to pass through, And He made the waters stand up like a heap." 
Psalms78:14 Then He led them with the cloud by day And all the night with a light of fire. 
Psalms78:15 He was splitting the rocks in the wilderness And so gave them abundant drink like the ocean depths. 
Psalms78:16 He brought forth streams also from the cliff face And caused waters to run down like rivers. 
Psalms78:17 Yet they still continued to sin against Him, To rebel against the Most High in the desert." 
Psalms78:18 And in their heart they put God to the test By asking for food according to their desire. 
Psalms78:19 Then they spoke against God; They said, “Can God prepare a table in the wilderness?" 
Psalms78:20 Behold, He struck the rock so that waters gushed out, And streams were overflowing; Can He give bread also? Will He prepare meat for His people?”" 
Psalms78:21 Therefore Yahweh heard and was full of wrath; And a fire was kindled against Jacob And anger also mounted against Israel," 
Psalms78:22 Because they did not believe in God And did not trust in His salvation. 
Psalms78:23 Yet He commanded the skies above And opened the doors of heaven; 
Psalms78:24 He rained down manna upon them to eat And gave them grain from heaven. 
Psalms78:25 Man ate the bread of angels; He sent them provision to satisfy. 
Psalms78:26 He led forth the east wind in the heavens And by His strength He guided the south wind. 
Psalms78:27 Then He rained meat upon them like the dust, Even winged fowl like the sand of the seas," 
Psalms78:28 He caused them to fall in the midst of His camp, All around His dwelling places." 
Psalms78:29 So they ate and were very satisfied, And their desire He brought to them." 
Psalms78:30 Before they had satisfied their desire, While their food was in their mouths," 
Psalms78:31 The anger of God rose against them And killed some of their stoutest ones, And subdued the choice men of Israel." 
Psalms78:32 In spite of all this they still sinned And did not believe in His wondrous deeds. 
Psalms78:33 So He brought their days to an end in futility And their years in sudden terror. 
Psalms78:34 When He killed them, then they sought Him, And returned and sought earnestly for God;" 
Psalms78:35 And they remembered that God was their rock, And the Most High God their Redeemer." 
Psalms78:36 But they deceived Him with their mouth And lied to Him with their tongue. 
Psalms78:37 For their heart was not prepared to remain with Him, Nor were they faithful in His covenant." 
Psalms78:38 But He, being compassionate, atoned for their iniquity and did not destroy them; And He abounded in turning back His anger And did not arouse all His wrath." 
Psalms78:39 Thus He remembered that they were but flesh, A wind that goes and does not return." 
Psalms78:40 How often they rebelled against Him in the wilderness And grieved Him in the wasteland! 
Psalms78:41 Again and again they tested God, And pained the Holy One of Israel." 
Psalms78:42 They did not remember His power, The day when He redeemed them from the adversary," 
Psalms78:43 When He performed His signs in Egypt And His miracles in the field of Zoan," 
Psalms78:44 And turned their rivers to blood, And their streams, they could not drink." 
Psalms78:45 He sent among them swarms of flies which devoured them, And frogs which destroyed them." 
Psalms78:46 He gave also their crops to the grasshopper And the fruit of their labor to the locust. 
Psalms78:47 He killed their vines with hailstones And their sycamore trees with frost. 
Psalms78:48 He gave over their cattle also to the hailstones And their herds to bolts of lightning. 
Psalms78:49 He sent upon them His burning anger, Fury and indignation and distress, A band of destroying angels." 
Psalms78:50 He leveled a path for His anger; He did not hold back their soul from death, But gave over their life to the plague," 
Psalms78:51 So He struck all the firstborn in Egypt, The first of their vigor in the tents of Ham." 
Psalms78:52 But He led forth His own people like sheep And guided them in the wilderness like a flock; 
Psalms78:53 He led them safely, so that they did not fear; But the sea covered their enemies." 
Psalms78:54 So He brought them to His holy land, To this hill country which His right hand had acquired." 
Psalms78:55 He also drove out the nations before them And apportioned them for an inheritance by measurement, And made the tribes of Israel dwell in their tents." 
Psalms78:56 Yet they tested and rebelled against the Most High God And did not keep His testimonies," 
Psalms78:57 But turned back and acted treacherously like their fathers; They turned aside like a treacherous bow. 
Psalms78:58 For they provoked Him with their high places And aroused His jealousy with their graven images. 
Psalms78:59 God heard and was filled with wrath And greatly rejected Israel; 
Psalms78:60 So that He abandoned the dwelling place at Shiloh, The tent which He caused to dwell among men," 
Psalms78:61 And gave up His strength to captivity And His beauty into the hand of the adversary. 
Psalms78:62 He also gave over His people to the sword, And was filled with wrath at His inheritance." 
Psalms78:63 Fire devoured His choice men, And His virgins had no wedding songs." 
Psalms78:64 His priests fell by the sword, And His widows could not weep." 
Psalms78:65 Then the Lord awoke as if from sleep, As if He were a warrior overcome by wine." 
Psalms78:66 He struck His adversaries backward; He put on them an everlasting reproach. 
Psalms78:67 He also rejected the tent of Joseph, And did not choose the tribe of Ephraim," 
Psalms78:68 But chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion which He loved." 
Psalms78:69 And He built His sanctuary like the heights, Like the earth which He has founded forever." 
Psalms78:70 He also chose David His servant And took him from the sheepfolds; 
Psalms78:71 From following the nursing ewes He brought him To shepherd Jacob His people, And Israel His inheritance." 
Psalms78:72 So he shepherded them according to the integrity of his heart, And led them with his skillful hands." 
Psalms79:1 A Psalm of Asaph. O God, the nations have come into Your inheritance; They have defiled Your holy temple; They have laid Jerusalem in ruins." 
Psalms79:2 They have given the dead bodies of Your slaves for food to the birds of the heavens, The flesh of Your holy ones to the beasts of the earth." 
Psalms79:3 They have poured out their blood like water round about Jerusalem; And there was no one to bury them. 
Psalms79:4 We have become a reproach to our neighbors, A mockery and derision to those around us." 
Psalms79:5 How long, O Yahweh? Will You be angry forever? Will Your jealousy burn like fire?" 
Psalms79:6 Pour out Your wrath upon the nations which do not know You, And upon the kingdoms which do not call upon Your name." 
Psalms79:7 For they have devoured Jacob And laid waste his abode. 
Psalms79:8 Do not remember our former iniquities against us; Let Your compassion quickly approach us, For we are brought very low." 
Psalms79:9 Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of Your name; And deliver us and atone for our sins for Your name’s sake." 
Psalms79:10 Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?” Let it be known among the nations before our eyes: Vengeance for the blood of Your slaves which has been poured out." 
Psalms79:11 Let the groaning of the prisoner come before You; According to the greatness of Your power preserve those who are doomed to die. 
Psalms79:12 And return to our neighbors sevenfold into their bosom The reproach with which they have reproached You, O Lord." 
Psalms79:13 But as for us, as Your people and the sheep of Your pasture, We will give thanks to You forever; From generation to generation we will recount Your praise." 
Psalms80:1 For the choir director. El Shoshannim. Eduth. Of Asaph. A Psalm. O Shepherd of Israel, give ear, You who guide Joseph like a flock; You who are enthroned above the cherubim, shine forth!" 
Psalms80:2 Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up Your might And come to save us!" 
Psalms80:3 O God, restore us And cause Your face to shine upon us, that we would be saved." 
Psalms80:4 O Yahweh God of hosts, How long will You smolder against the prayer of Your people?" 
Psalms80:5 You have fed them with the bread of tears, And You have made them to drink tears in large measure." 
Psalms80:6 You set us as an object of strife to our neighbors, And our enemies mock us among themselves." 
Psalms80:7 O God of hosts, restore us And cause Your face to shine upon us, that we might be saved." 
Psalms80:8 You removed a vine from Egypt; You drove out the nations and then You planted it. 
Psalms80:9 You cleared the ground before it, And it took deep root and filled the land." 
Psalms80:10 The mountains were covered with its shadow, And the cedars of God with its boughs." 
Psalms80:11 It sent out its branches to the sea And its shoots to the River. 
Psalms80:12 Why have You broken down its hedges, So that all who pass that way pick its fruit?" 
Psalms80:13 A boar from the forest devours it And whatever moves in the field feeds on it. 
Psalms80:14 O God of hosts, return now, we beseech You; Look down from heaven and see, and visit this vine," 
Psalms80:15 Even the sapling which Your right hand has planted, And on the son whom You have strengthened for Yourself." 
Psalms80:16 It is burned with fire, it is cut down; They perish at the rebuke of Your face." 
Psalms80:17 Let Your hand be upon the man of Your right hand, Upon the son of man whom You made strong for Yourself." 
Psalms80:18 Then we shall not turn back from You; Revive us, and we will call upon Your name." 
Psalms80:19 O Yahweh God of hosts, restore us; Cause Your face to shine upon us, that we might be saved." 
Psalms81:1 For the choir director. According to the Gittith. Of Asaph. Sing for joy to God our strength; Make a loud shout to the God of Jacob. 
Psalms81:2 Lift up a song of praise, strike the tambourine, The sweet sounding lyre with the harp." 
Psalms81:3 Blow the trumpet at the new moon, At the full moon, on our feast day." 
Psalms81:4 For it is a statute for Israel, A judgment of the God of Jacob." 
Psalms81:5 He established it for a testimony in Joseph When he went forth over the land of Egypt. I heard a language that I did not know: 
Psalms81:6 “I relieved his shoulder of the burden, His hands were freed from the basket." 
Psalms81:7 You called in distress and I rescued you; I answered you in the hiding place of thunder; I tested you at the waters of Meribah. Selah. 
Psalms81:8 Hear, O My people, and I will testify against you; O Israel, if you would listen to Me!" 
Psalms81:9 Let there be no strange god among you; And you shall not worship a foreign god. 
Psalms81:10 I am Yahweh your God, Who brought you up from the land of Egypt; Open your mouth wide and I will fill it." 
Psalms81:11 “But My people did not listen to My voice, And Israel was not willing to obey Me." 
Psalms81:12 So I released them over to the stubbornness of their heart, That they would walk in their own devices." 
Psalms81:13 Oh that My people would listen to Me, That Israel would walk in My ways!" 
Psalms81:14 I would quickly subdue their enemies And I would turn My hand against their adversaries. 
Psalms81:15 Those who hate Yahweh would cower before Him, And their time of punishment would be forever." 
Psalms81:16 But I would feed you with the finest of the wheat, And with honey from the rock I would satisfy you.”" 
Psalms82:1 A Psalm of Asaph. God takes His stand in the congregation of God; He judges in the midst of gods. 
Psalms82:2 How long will you judge unrighteously And show partiality to the wicked? Selah. 
Psalms82:3 Give justice to the poor and the orphan; Justify the afflicted and destitute. 
Psalms82:4 Protect the poor and needy; Deliver them out of the hand of the wicked. 
Psalms82:5 They do not know and do not understand; They walk about in darkness; All the foundations of the earth are shaken. 
Psalms82:6 I said, “You are gods, And all of you are sons of the Most High." 
Psalms82:7 Nevertheless you will die like men And you will fall like any one of the princes.” 
Psalms82:8 Arise, O God, judge the earth! For it is You who will inherit all the nations." 
Psalms83:1 A Song. A Psalm of Asaph. O God, do not remain at rest; Do not be silent and, O God, do not be quiet." 
Psalms83:2 For behold, Your enemies roar, And those who hate You have lifted up their heads." 
Psalms83:3 They make shrewd plans against Your people, And conspire together against Your treasured ones." 
Psalms83:4 They have said, “Come, and let us wipe them out as a nation, That the name of Israel be remembered no more.”" 
Psalms83:5 For they have conspired together with one heart; Against You they cut a covenant: 
Psalms83:6 The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Hagrites;" 
Psalms83:7 Gebal and Ammon and Amalek, Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre;" 
Psalms83:8 Assyria also has joined with them; They have become the power of the children of Lot. Selah. 
Psalms83:9 Do to them as to Midian, As to Sisera, and Jabin at the river of Kishon," 
Psalms83:10 Who were destroyed at En‑dor, Who were as dung for the ground." 
Psalms83:11 Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb And all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna," 
Psalms83:12 Who said, “Let us possess for ourselves The pastures of God.”" 
Psalms83:13 O my God, make them like the whirling dust, Like chaff before the wind." 
Psalms83:14 Like fire that burns the forest And like a flame that burns up the mountains," 
Psalms83:15 So pursue them with Your tempest And dismay them with Your storm. 
Psalms83:16 Fill their faces with disgrace, That they may seek Your name, O Yahweh." 
Psalms83:17 Let them be ashamed and dismayed forever, And let them be humiliated and perish," 
Psalms83:18 That they may know that You alone—Your name is Yahweh— Are the Most High over all the earth. 
Psalms84:1 For the choir director. According to the Gittith. Of the sons of Korah. A Psalm. How lovely are Your dwelling places, O Yahweh of hosts!" 
Psalms84:2 My soul has longed and even fainted for the courts of Yahweh; My heart and my flesh sing for joy to the living God. 
Psalms84:3 Even the bird has found a home, And the swallow a nest for herself, where she sets her young, At Your altars, O Yahweh of hosts, My King and my God." 
Psalms84:4 How blessed are those who dwell in Your house! They are ever praising You. Selah. 
Psalms84:5 How blessed is the man whose strength is in You, In whose heart are the highways to Zion!" 
Psalms84:6 Passing through the valley of Baca they make it a spring; The early rain also wraps it up with blessings. 
Psalms84:7 They go from strength to strength, Each one of them appears before God in Zion." 
Psalms84:8 O Yahweh God of hosts, hear my prayer; Give ear, O God of Jacob! Selah." 
Psalms84:9 See our shield, O God, And look upon the face of Your anointed." 
Psalms84:10 For better is a day in Your courts than a thousand elsewhere. I would choose to stand at the threshold of the house of my God Than dwell in the tents of wickedness. 
Psalms84:11 For Yahweh God is a sun and shield; Yahweh gives grace and glory; No good thing does He withhold from those who walk blamelessly. 
Psalms84:12 O Yahweh of hosts, How blessed is the man who trusts in You!" 
Psalms85:1 For the choir director. Of the sons of Korah. A Psalm. O Yahweh, You showed favor to Your land; You returned the fortunes of Jacob." 
Psalms85:2 You forgave the iniquity of Your people; You covered all their sin. Selah. 
Psalms85:3 You withdrew all Your fury; You turned back from Your burning anger. 
Psalms85:4 Turn us back, O God of our salvation, And cause Your vexation toward us to cease." 
Psalms85:5 Will You be angry with us forever? Will You prolong Your anger from generation to generation? 
Psalms85:6 Will You not Yourself return to revive us, That Your people may be glad in You?" 
Psalms85:7 Show us, O Yahweh, Your lovingkindness, And give us Your salvation." 
Psalms85:8 Let me hear what the God, Yahweh, will speak; For He will speak peace to His people, to His holy ones; But let them not turn back to folly." 
Psalms85:9 Surely His salvation is near to those who fear Him, That glory may dwell in our land." 
Psalms85:10 Lovingkindness and truth have met together; Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. 
Psalms85:11 Truth springs up from the earth, And righteousness looks down from heaven." 
Psalms85:12 Indeed, Yahweh will give what is good, And our land will yield its produce." 
Psalms85:13 Righteousness will go before Him And will establish the way of His steps. 
Psalms86:1 A Prayer of David. Incline Your ear, O Yahweh, and answer me; For I am afflicted and needy." 
Psalms86:2 Keep my soul, for I am a holy one; O You my God, save Your slave who trusts in You." 
Psalms86:3 Be gracious to me, O Lord, For to You I call all day long." 
Psalms86:4 Make glad the soul of Your slave, For to You, O Lord, I lift up my soul." 
Psalms86:5 For You, Lord, are good, and by nature forgiving, And abundant in lovingkindness to all who call upon You." 
Psalms86:6 Give ear, O Yahweh, to my prayer; And give heed to the voice of my supplications!" 
Psalms86:7 In the day of my distress I shall call upon You, For You will answer me." 
Psalms86:8 There is no one like You among the gods, O Lord, Nor are there any works like Yours." 
Psalms86:9 All nations whom You have made shall come and worship before You, O Lord, And they shall glorify Your name." 
Psalms86:10 For You are great and do wondrous deeds; You alone are God. 
Psalms86:11 Teach me Your way, O Yahweh; I will walk in Your truth; Unite my heart to fear Your name." 
Psalms86:12 I will give thanks to You, O Lord my God, with all my heart, And will glorify Your name forever." 
Psalms86:13 For Your lovingkindness toward me is great, And You have delivered my soul from Sheol below." 
Psalms86:14 O God, arrogant men have risen up against me, And a band of ruthless men have sought my life, And they have not set You before them." 
Psalms86:15 But You, O Lord, are a God compassionate and gracious, Slow to anger and abundant in lovingkindness and truth." 
Psalms86:16 Turn to me, and be gracious to me; Oh grant Your strength to Your slave, And save the son of Your maidservant." 
Psalms86:17 Show me a sign for good, That those who hate me may see it and be ashamed, Because You, O Yahweh, have helped me and comforted me." 
Psalms87:1 Of the sons of Korah. A Psalm. A Song. His foundation is in the holy mountains. 
Psalms87:2 Yahweh loves the gates of Zion More than all the dwelling places of Jacob. 
Psalms87:3 Glorious things are spoken of you, O city of God. Selah." 
Psalms87:4 “I shall mention Rahab and Babylon among those who know Me; Behold, Philistia and Tyre with Ethiopia: ‘This one was born there.’”" 
Psalms87:5 But of Zion it shall be said, “This one and that one were born in her”; And the Most High Himself will establish her." 
Psalms87:6 Yahweh will count when He registers the peoples, “This one was born there.” Selah." 
Psalms87:7 And singers, just like the dancers, will all say, “All my springs are in you.”" 
Psalms88:1 A Song. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. For the choir director. According to Mahalath Leannoth. A Maskil of Heman the Ezrahite. O Yahweh, the God of my salvation, I have cried out by day and throughout the night before You." 
Psalms88:1 A Song. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. For the choir director. According to Mahalath Leannoth. A Maskil of Heman the Ezrahite. O Yahweh, the God of my salvation, I have cried out by day and throughout the night before You." 
Psalms88:2 Let my prayer come before You; Incline Your ear to my cry of lamentation! 
Psalms88:3 For my soul has been saturated with calamities, And my life has reached Sheol." 
Psalms88:4 I am counted among those who go down to the pit; I am like a man without strength," 
Psalms88:5 Released among the dead, Like the slain who lie in the grave, Whom You remember no more, And they are cut off from Your hand." 
Psalms88:6 You have put me in the pit far below, In dark places, in the depths." 
Psalms88:7 Your wrath lies upon me, And You afflict me with all Your breaking waves. Selah." 
Psalms88:8 You have removed my acquaintances far from me; You have set me as an abomination to them; I am shut up and cannot go out. 
Psalms88:9 My eye has wasted away because of affliction; I have called upon You every day, O Yahweh; I have spread out my hands to You." 
Psalms88:10 Will You do wonders for the dead? Will the departed spirits rise and praise You? Selah. 
Psalms88:11 Will Your lovingkindness be recounted in the grave, Your faithfulness in Abaddon?" 
Psalms88:12 Will Your wonders be known in the darkness? And Your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? 
Psalms88:13 But as for me, O Yahweh, I have cried out to You for help, And in the morning my prayer comes before You." 
Psalms88:14 O Yahweh, why do You reject my soul? Why do You hide Your face from me?" 
Psalms88:15 I have been afflicted and about to breathe my last from my youth on; I bear Your terrors; I am overcome. 
Psalms88:16 Your burning anger has passed over me; Your horrors have destroyed me. 
Psalms88:17 They have surrounded me like water all day long; They have encompassed me altogether. 
Psalms88:18 You have removed lover and friend far from me; My acquaintances are in darkness. 
Psalms89:1 A Maskil of Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing of the lovingkindnesses of Yahweh forever; From generation to generation I will make known Your faithfulness with my mouth. 
Psalms89:1 A Maskil of Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing of the lovingkindnesses of Yahweh forever; From generation to generation I will make known Your faithfulness with my mouth. 
Psalms89:2 For I have said, “Lovingkindness will be built up forever; In the heavens You will establish Your faithfulness.”" 
Psalms89:3 “I have cut a covenant with My chosen; I have sworn to David My servant," 
Psalms89:4 I will establish your seed forever And build up your throne from generation to generation.” Selah. 
Psalms89:5 The heavens will praise Your wonders, O Yahweh; Your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones." 
Psalms89:6 For who in the sky is comparable to Yahweh? Who among the sons of the mighty is like Yahweh," 
Psalms89:7 A God greatly dreaded in the council of the holy ones, And fearsome above all those who are around Him?" 
Psalms89:8 O Yahweh God of hosts, who is like You, O mighty Yah? Your faithfulness also surrounds You." 
Psalms89:9 You rule the swelling of the sea; When its waves rise, You still them." 
Psalms89:10 You Yourself crushed Rahab like one who is slain; You scattered Your enemies with Your strong arm. 
Psalms89:11 The heavens are Yours, the earth also is Yours; The world and its fullness, You have founded them." 
Psalms89:12 The north and the south, You have created them; Tabor and Hermon sing with joy at Your name." 
Psalms89:13 You have a mighty arm; Your hand is strong, Your right hand is exalted." 
Psalms89:14 Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Your throne; Lovingkindness and truth go before You. 
Psalms89:15 How blessed are the people who know the loud shout of joy! O Yahweh, they walk in the light of Your face." 
Psalms89:16 In Your name they rejoice all the day, And by Your righteousness they are exalted." 
Psalms89:17 For You are the beauty of their strength, And by Your favor our horn is exalted." 
Psalms89:18 For our shield belongs to Yahweh, And our king to the Holy One of Israel." 
Psalms89:19 Formerly You spoke in vision to Your holy ones, And said, “I have bestowed help to a mighty one; I have exalted one chosen from the people." 
Psalms89:20 I have found David My servant; With My holy oil I have anointed him," 
Psalms89:21 With whom My hand will be established; My arm also will strengthen him. 
Psalms89:22 The enemy will not deceive him, Nor the son of unrighteousness afflict him." 
Psalms89:23 But I shall crush his adversaries before him, And strike those who hate him." 
Psalms89:24 My faithfulness and My lovingkindness will be with him, And in My name his horn will be exalted." 
Psalms89:25 I shall also set his hand on the sea And his right hand on the rivers. 
Psalms89:26 He will call to Me, ‘You are my Father, My God, and the rock of my salvation.’" 
Psalms89:27 I also shall make him My firstborn, The highest of the kings of the earth." 
Psalms89:28 My lovingkindness I will keep for him forever, And My covenant shall be confirmed to him." 
Psalms89:29 So I will set up his seed to endure forever And his throne as the days of heaven. 
Psalms89:30 “If his sons forsake My law And do not walk in My judgments," 
Psalms89:31 If they profane My statutes And do not keep My commandments," 
Psalms89:32 Then I will punish their transgression with the rod And their iniquity with striking. 
Psalms89:33 But I will not break off My lovingkindness from him, Nor deal falsely in My faithfulness." 
Psalms89:34 My covenant I will not profane, Nor will I alter what comes forth from My lips." 
Psalms89:35 Once I have sworn by My holiness; I will not lie to David. 
Psalms89:36 His seed shall endure forever And his throne as the sun before Me. 
Psalms89:37 It shall be established forever like the moon, And the witness in the sky is faithful.” Selah." 
Psalms89:38 But You have cast off and rejected, You have been full of wrath against Your anointed." 
Psalms89:39 You have spurned the covenant of Your slave; You have profaned his crown to the ground. 
Psalms89:40 You have broken down all his walls; You have beset his strongholds with ruin. 
Psalms89:41 All who pass along the way plunder him; He has become a reproach to his neighbors. 
Psalms89:42 You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries; You have made all his enemies be glad. 
Psalms89:43 You also turn back the edge of his sword And have not made him arise in battle. 
Psalms89:44 You have made his splendor to cease And cast his throne to the ground. 
Psalms89:45 You have shortened the days of his youth; You have wrapped him up with shame. Selah. 
Psalms89:46 How long, O Yahweh? Will You hide Yourself forever? Will Your wrath burn like fire?" 
Psalms89:47 Remember what my span of life is; For what vanity You have created all the sons of men! 
Psalms89:48 What man can live and not see death? Can he provide his soul escape from the power of Sheol? Selah. 
Psalms89:49 Where are Your former lovingkindnesses, O Lord, Which You swore to David in Your faithfulness?" 
Psalms89:50 Remember, O Lord, the reproach of Your slaves; How I bear in my bosom the reproach of all the many peoples," 
Psalms89:51 With which Your enemies have reproached, O Yahweh, With which they have reproached the footsteps of Your anointed." 
Psalms89:52 Blessed be Yahweh forever! Amen and Amen. 
Psalms90:1 A Prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, You have been our dwelling place from generation to generation." 
Psalms90:2 Before the mountains were born Or You brought forth the earth and the world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, You are God." 
Psalms90:3 You turn man back into dust And say, “Return, O sons of men.”" 
Psalms90:4 For a thousand years in Your sight Are like yesterday when it passes by, Or as a watch in the night." 
Psalms90:5 You have swept them away like a flood, they fall asleep; In the morning they are like grass which sprouts anew." 
Psalms90:6 In the morning it blossoms and sprouts anew; Toward evening it withers away and dries up. 
Psalms90:7 For we have been consumed by Your anger And by Your wrath we have been dismayed. 
Psalms90:8 You have set our iniquities before You, Our secret sins in the light of Your presence." 
Psalms90:9 For all our days have declined in Your fury; We have finished our years like a sigh. 
Psalms90:10 As for the days of our life, they contain seventy years, Or if due to might, eighty years, Yet their pride is but labor and wickedness; For soon it is gone and we fly away." 
Psalms90:11 Who knows the power of Your anger And Your fury, according to the fear that is due You?" 
Psalms90:12 So teach us to number our days, That we may present to You a heart of wisdom." 
Psalms90:13 Return, O Yahweh; how long will it be? And be sorry for Your slaves." 
Psalms90:14 O satisfy us in the morning with Your lovingkindness, That we may sing for joy and be glad all our days." 
Psalms90:15 Make us glad according to the days You have afflicted us, And the years we have seen evil." 
Psalms90:16 Let Your work appear to Your slaves And Your majesty to their sons. 
Psalms90:17 Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us; And establish for us the work of our hands; Establish the work of our hands. 
Psalms91:1 He who abides in the shelter of the Most High Will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. 
Psalms91:2 I will say to Yahweh, “My refuge and my fortress, My God, in whom I trust!”" 
Psalms91:3 For it is He who delivers you from the snare of the trapper And from the destructive pestilence. 
Psalms91:4 He will cover you with His pinions, And under His wings you will take refuge; His truth is a large shield and bulwark." 
Psalms91:5 You will not be afraid of terror by night, Or arrow that flies by day;" 
Psalms91:6 Of pestilence that moves in darkness, Or of destruction that devastates at noon." 
Psalms91:7 A thousand may fall at your side And ten thousand at your right hand, But it shall not approach you." 
Psalms91:8 You will only look on with your eyes And see the recompense of the wicked. 
Psalms91:9 For you have made Yahweh—my refuge, The Most High—your dwelling place." 
Psalms91:10 No evil will befall you, And no plague will come near your tent." 
Psalms91:11 For He will command His angels concerning you, To guard you in all your ways." 
Psalms91:12 On their hands they will bear you up, Lest you strike your foot against a stone." 
Psalms91:13 You will tread upon the fierce lion and cobra, The young lion and the serpent you will trample down." 
Psalms91:14 “Because he has loved Me, therefore I will protect him; I will set him securely on high, because he has known My name." 
Psalms91:15 He will call upon Me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in his distress; I will rescue him and honor him." 
Psalms91:16 With a long life I will satisfy him And I will show him My salvation.” 
Psalms92:1 A Psalm. A Song for the Sabbath day. It is good to give thanks to Yahweh And to sing praises to Your name, O Most High;" 
Psalms92:2 To declare Your lovingkindness in the morning And Your faithfulness by night," 
Psalms92:3 With the ten‑stringed lute and with the harp, With resounding music upon the lyre." 
Psalms92:4 For You, O Yahweh, have made me glad by what You have done, I will sing for joy at the works of Your hands." 
Psalms92:5 How great are Your works, O Yahweh! Your thoughts are very deep." 
Psalms92:6 A senseless man does not know, And a fool does not understand this:" 
Psalms92:7 That when the wicked flourished like grass And all the workers of iniquity blossomed, It was only that they might be destroyed forevermore." 
Psalms92:8 But You are on high forever, O Yahweh." 
Psalms92:9 For, behold, Your enemies, O Yahweh, For, behold, Your enemies will perish; All the workers of iniquity will be scattered." 
Psalms92:10 But You have raised up my horn like that of the wild ox; I have been anointed with fresh oil. 
Psalms92:11 And my eye has looked exultantly upon my foes, My ears hear of the evildoers who rise up against me." 
Psalms92:12 The righteous man will flourish like the palm tree, He will grow like a cedar in Lebanon." 
Psalms92:13 Planted in the house of Yahweh, They will flourish in the courts of our God." 
Psalms92:14 They will still yield fruit in old age; They shall be rich and fresh," 
Psalms92:15 To declare that Yahweh is upright; He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in Him." 
Psalms93:1 Yahweh reigns, He is clothed with majesty; Yahweh has clothed and girded Himself with strength; Indeed, the world is established, it will not be shaken." 
Psalms93:2 Your throne is established from of old; You are from everlasting. 
Psalms93:3 The rivers have lifted up, O Yahweh, The rivers have lifted up their voice, The rivers lift up their pounding waves." 
Psalms93:4 More than the voices of many waters, Than the mighty breakers of the sea, Yahweh on high is mighty." 
Psalms93:5 Your testimonies are very faithful; Holiness befits Your house, O Yahweh, forevermore." 
Psalms94:1 O Yahweh, God of vengeance, God of vengeance, shine forth!" 
Psalms94:2 Be lifted up, O Judge of the earth, Render recompense to the proud." 
Psalms94:3 How long shall the wicked, O Yahweh, How long shall the wicked exult?" 
Psalms94:4 They pour forth words, they speak arrogantly; All workers of iniquity vaunt themselves." 
Psalms94:5 They crush Your people, O Yahweh, And afflict Your inheritance." 
Psalms94:6 They slay the widow and the sojourner And murder the orphans. 
Psalms94:7 They have said, “Yah does not see, Nor does the God of Jacob discern.”" 
Psalms94:8 Discern, you senseless among the people; And when will you have insight, you fools?" 
Psalms94:9 He who planted the ear, does He not hear? He who formed the eye, does He not see?" 
Psalms94:10 He who disciplines the nations, will He not rebuke, Even He who teaches man knowledge?" 
Psalms94:11 Yahweh knows the thoughts of man, That they are vanity." 
Psalms94:12 Blessed is the man whom You discipline, O Yah, And whom You teach out of Your law;" 
Psalms94:13 That You may grant him calm from the days of calamity, Until a pit is dug for the wicked." 
Psalms94:14 For Yahweh will not abandon His people, Nor will He forsake His inheritance." 
Psalms94:15 For judgment will again be righteous, And all the upright in heart will follow it." 
Psalms94:16 Who will arise for me against evildoers? Who will take his stand for me against workers of iniquity? 
Psalms94:17 If Yahweh had not been my help, My soul would soon have dwelt in the abode of silence." 
Psalms94:18 If I should say, “My foot has stumbled,” Your lovingkindness, O Yahweh, will hold me up." 
Psalms94:19 When my anxious thoughts multiply within me, Your consolations delight my soul." 
Psalms94:20 Can a throne of destruction be allied with You, One which forms trouble by statute?" 
Psalms94:21 They band themselves together against the life of the righteous And condemn the innocent to death. 
Psalms94:22 But Yahweh has been my stronghold, And my God the rock of my refuge." 
Psalms94:23 He has brought back their iniquity upon them And will destroy them in their evil; Yahweh our God will destroy them. 
Psalms95:1 Oh come, let us sing for joy to Yahweh, Let us make a loud shout to the rock of our salvation." 
Psalms95:2 Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving, Let us make a loud shout to Him with songs of praise." 
Psalms95:3 For Yahweh is a great God And a great King above all gods," 
Psalms95:4 In whose hand are the depths of the earth, The peaks of the mountains are His also." 
Psalms95:5 The sea is His, for it was He who made it, And His hands formed the dry land." 
Psalms95:6 Come, let us worship and bow down, Let us kneel before Yahweh our Maker." 
Psalms95:7 For He is our God, And we are the people of His pasture and the sheep of His hand. Today, if you hear His voice," 
Psalms95:8 Do not harden your hearts, as at Meribah, As in the day of Massah in the wilderness," 
Psalms95:9 “When your fathers tried Me, They tested Me, though they had seen My work." 
Psalms95:10 For forty years I loathed that generation, And said they are a people who wander in their heart, And they do not know My ways." 
Psalms95:11 Therefore I swore in My anger, They shall never enter into My rest.”" 
Psalms96:1 Sing to Yahweh a new song; Sing to Yahweh, all the earth." 
Psalms96:2 Sing to Yahweh, bless His name; Proclaim good news of His salvation from day to day." 
Psalms96:3 Recount His glory among the nations, His wondrous deeds among all the peoples." 
Psalms96:4 For great is Yahweh and greatly to be praised; He is more fearsome than all gods. 
Psalms96:5 For all the gods of the peoples are idols, But Yahweh made the heavens." 
Psalms96:6 Splendor and majesty are before Him, Strength and beauty are in His sanctuary." 
Psalms96:7 Ascribe to Yahweh, O families of the peoples, Ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength." 
Psalms96:8 Ascribe to Yahweh the glory of His name; Lift up an offering and come into His courts. 
Psalms96:9 Worship Yahweh in the splendor of holiness; Tremble before Him, all the earth." 
Psalms96:10 Say among the nations, “Yahweh reigns; Indeed, the world is established, it will not be shaken; He will render justice to the peoples with equity.”" 
Psalms96:11 Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; Let the sea roar, as well as its fullness;" 
Psalms96:12 Let the field exult, and all that is in it. Then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy" 
Psalms96:13 Before Yahweh, for He is coming, For He is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness And the peoples in His faithfulness." 
Psalms97:1 Yahweh reigns, let the earth rejoice; Let the many coastlands be glad." 
Psalms97:2 Clouds and thick darkness are all around Him; Righteousness and justice are the foundation of His throne. 
Psalms97:3 Fire goes before Him And burns up His adversaries all around. 
Psalms97:4 His lightnings light up the world; The earth sees and trembles. 
Psalms97:5 The mountains melt like wax at the presence of Yahweh, At the presence of the Lord of all the earth." 
Psalms97:6 The heavens declare His righteousness, And all the peoples see His glory." 
Psalms97:7 Let all those be ashamed who serve graven images, Who boast of idols; Worship Him, all you gods!" 
Psalms97:8 Zion heard this and was glad, And the daughters of Judah have rejoiced Because of Your judgments, O Yahweh." 
Psalms97:9 For You are Yahweh Most High over all the earth; You are exalted far above all gods. 
Psalms97:10 Hate evil, you who love Yahweh, Who keeps the souls of His holy ones; He delivers them from the hand of the wicked." 
Psalms97:11 Light is sown for the righteous And gladness for the upright in heart. 
Psalms97:12 Be glad in Yahweh, you righteous ones, And give thanks for the remembrance of His holy name." 
Psalms98:1 A Psalm. Sing to Yahweh a new song, For He has done wondrous deeds, His right hand and His holy arm have worked out His salvation." 
Psalms98:2 Yahweh has made known His salvation; He has revealed His righteousness in the eyes of the nations. 
Psalms98:3 He has remembered His lovingkindness and His faithfulness to the house of Israel; All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. 
Psalms98:4 Make a loud shout to Yahweh, all the earth; Break forth and sing for joy and sing praises." 
Psalms98:5 Sing praises to Yahweh with the lyre, With the lyre and the sound of singing." 
Psalms98:6 With trumpets and the sound of the horn Make a loud shout before King Yahweh. 
Psalms98:7 Let the sea roar, as well as its fullness, The world and those who dwell in it." 
Psalms98:8 Let the rivers clap their hands, Let the mountains sing together for joy" 
Psalms98:9 Before Yahweh, for He is coming to judge the earth; He will judge the world with righteousness And the peoples with equity." 
Psalms99:1 Yahweh reigns, let the peoples tremble; He sits enthroned above the cherubim, let the earth quake!" 
Psalms99:2 Yahweh is great in Zion, And He is exalted above all the peoples." 
Psalms99:3 Let them praise Your great and awesome name; Holy is He. 
Psalms99:4 The strength of the King loves justice; You have established equity; You have done justice and righteousness in Jacob. 
Psalms99:5 Exalt Yahweh our God And worship at the footstool of His feet; Holy is He. 
Psalms99:6 Moses and Aaron were among His priests, And Samuel was among those who called on His name; They would call upon Yahweh and He would answer them." 
Psalms99:7 He would speak to them in the pillar of cloud; They kept His testimonies And the statute that He gave them. 
Psalms99:8 O Yahweh our God, You answered them; You were a forgiving God to them, And yet an avenger of their evil deeds." 
Psalms99:9 Exalt Yahweh our God And worship at His holy mountain, For holy is Yahweh our God." 
Psalms100:1 A Psalm of Thanksgiving. Make a loud shout to Yahweh, all the earth." 
Psalms100:2 Serve Yahweh with gladness; Come before Him with joyful songs. 
Psalms100:3 Know that Yahweh, He is God; It is He who has made us, and not we ourselves; We are His people and the sheep of His pasture." 
Psalms100:4 Enter His gates with thanksgiving And His courts with praise. Give thanks to Him, bless His name." 
Psalms100:5 For Yahweh is good; His lovingkindness endures forever And His faithfulness, generation unto generation." 
Psalms101:1 Of David. A Psalm. I will sing of lovingkindness and justice, To You, O Yahweh, I will sing praises." 
Psalms101:2 I will consider the way of the blameless. When will You come to me? I will walk within my house in the integrity of my heart. 
Psalms101:3 I will set no vile thing before my eyes; I hate the work of those who fall away; It shall not cling to me. 
Psalms101:4 A crooked heart shall depart from me; I will know no evil. 
Psalms101:5 Whoever secretly slanders his neighbor, him I will destroy; Whoever has a haughty look and an arrogant heart, I will not endure." 
Psalms101:6 My eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may abide with me; He who walks in the way of the blameless is the one who will minister to me." 
Psalms101:7 He who practices deceit shall not dwell within my house; He who speaks lies shall not be established before my eyes. 
Psalms101:8 Every morning I will destroy all the wicked of the land, To cut off from the city of Yahweh all the workers of iniquity." 
Psalms102:1 A Prayer of the afflicted when he is faint and pours out his complaint before Yahweh. O Yahweh, hear my prayer! And let my cry for help come to You." 
Psalms102:2 Do not hide Your face from me in the day of my distress; Incline Your ear to me; In the day when I call answer me quickly. 
Psalms102:3 For my days have vanished in smoke, And my bones have been scorched like a hearth." 
Psalms102:4 My heart has been stricken like grass and it has dried up, Indeed, I forget to eat my bread." 
Psalms102:5 Because of the sound of my groaning My bones cling to my flesh. 
Psalms102:6 I resemble a pelican of the wilderness; I have become like an owl of the waste places. 
Psalms102:7 I lie awake, I have become like a lonely bird on a roof." 
Psalms102:8 My enemies have reproached me all day long; Those who ridicule me swear against me. 
Psalms102:9 For I have eaten ashes like bread And mixed my drinks with weeping 
Psalms102:10 Because of Your indignation and Your wrath, For You have lifted me up and cast me away." 
Psalms102:11 My days are like an outstretched shadow, And as for me, I dry up like grass." 
Psalms102:12 But You, O Yahweh, abide forever, And the remembrance of Your name from generation to generation." 
Psalms102:13 You will arise and have compassion on Zion— For it is time to be gracious to it, For the appointed time has come." 
Psalms102:14 For Your slaves find pleasure in its stones And show grace to its dust— 
Psalms102:15 So the nations will fear the name of Yahweh And all the kings of the earth Your glory. 
Psalms102:16 For Yahweh has built up Zion; He has appeared in His glory. 
Psalms102:17 He has turned toward the prayer of the destitute And has not despised their prayer. 
Psalms102:18 This will be written for the generation to come, And a people yet to be created will praise Yah." 
Psalms102:19 For He looked down from His holy height; From heaven Yahweh gazed upon the earth," 
Psalms102:20 To hear the groaning of the prisoner, To set free those who were doomed to death," 
Psalms102:21 To recount the name of Yahweh in Zion And His praise in Jerusalem," 
Psalms102:22 When the peoples are gathered together, And the kingdoms, to serve Yahweh." 
Psalms102:23 He has afflicted my strength in the way; He has shortened my days. 
Psalms102:24 I say, “O my God, do not take me away in the midst of my days, Your years are from generation to all generations." 
Psalms102:25 Of old You founded the earth, And the heavens are the work of Your hands." 
Psalms102:26 Even they will perish, but You will remain; And all of them will wear out like a garment; Like clothing You will change them and they will be changed." 
Psalms102:27 But You are the same, And Your years will not come to an end." 
Psalms102:28 The children of Your slaves will dwell securely, And their seed will be established before You.”" 
Psalms103:1 Of David. Bless Yahweh, O my soul, And all that is within me, bless His holy name." 
Psalms103:2 Bless Yahweh, O my soul, And forget none of His benefits;" 
Psalms103:3 Who pardons all your iniquities, Who heals all your diseases;" 
Psalms103:4 Who redeems your life from the pit, Who crowns you with lovingkindness and compassion;" 
Psalms103:5 Who satisfies your years with good things, So that your youth is renewed like the eagle." 
Psalms103:6 Yahweh performs righteous deeds And judgments for all who are oppressed. 
Psalms103:7 He made known His ways to Moses, His acts to the sons of Israel." 
Psalms103:8 Yahweh is compassionate and gracious, Slow to anger and abounding in lovingkindness." 
Psalms103:9 He will not always contend with us, And He will not keep His anger forever." 
Psalms103:10 He has not dealt with us according to our sins, And He has not rewarded us according to our iniquities." 
Psalms103:11 For as high as the heavens are above the earth, So great is His lovingkindness toward those who fear Him." 
Psalms103:12 As far as the east is from the west, So far has He removed our transgressions from us." 
Psalms103:13 As a father has compassion on his children, So Yahweh has compassion on those who fear Him." 
Psalms103:14 For He Himself knows our form; He remembers that we are but dust. 
Psalms103:15 As for man, his days are like grass; As a flower of the field, so he flowers." 
Psalms103:16 When the wind has passed over it, it is no more, And its place acknowledges it no longer." 
Psalms103:17 But the lovingkindness of Yahweh is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear Him, And His righteousness to children’s children," 
Psalms103:18 To those who keep His covenant And remember His precepts to do them. 
Psalms103:19 Yahweh has established His throne in the heavens, And His kingdom rules over all." 
Psalms103:20 Bless Yahweh, you His angels, Mighty in strength, who perform His word, Obeying the voice of His word!" 
Psalms103:21 Bless Yahweh, all you His hosts, You who serve Him, doing His will." 
Psalms103:22 Bless Yahweh, all you works of His, In all places of His rule; Bless Yahweh, O my soul!" 
Psalms104:1 Bless Yahweh, O my soul! O Yahweh my God, You are very great; You are clothed with splendor and majesty," 
Psalms104:2 Wrapping Yourself with light as with a cloak, Stretching out the heavens like a tent curtain." 
Psalms104:3 He lays the beams of His upper chambers in the waters; He sets up the clouds to be His chariot; He walks upon the wings of the wind; 
Psalms104:4 He makes His angels the winds, His ministers flaming fire." 
Psalms104:5 He founded the earth upon its place, So that it will not shake forever and ever." 
Psalms104:6 You covered it with the deep as with a garment; The waters were standing above the mountains. 
Psalms104:7 At Your rebuke they fled, At the sound of Your thunder they hurried away in alarm." 
Psalms104:8 The mountains went up; the valleys went down To the place which You founded for them. 
Psalms104:9 You set a boundary that they may not pass over, So that they will not return to cover the earth." 
Psalms104:10 He sends forth springs in the valleys; They flow between the mountains; 
Psalms104:11 They give water to every beast of the field; The wild donkeys quench their thirst. 
Psalms104:12 Above them the birds of the heavens dwell; They give forth their voices among the branches. 
Psalms104:13 He gives water to the mountains from His upper chambers; The earth is satisfied with the fruit of His works. 
Psalms104:14 He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, And vegetation for man’s cultivation, To bring forth food from the earth," 
Psalms104:15 And wine which makes man’s heart glad, To make his face glisten more than oil, And food which sustains man’s heart." 
Psalms104:16 The trees of Yahweh are satisfied, The cedars of Lebanon which He planted," 
Psalms104:17 Where the birds build their nests, The stork’s home is in the fir trees." 
Psalms104:18 The high mountains are for the wild goats; The cliffs are a refuge for the shephanim. 
Psalms104:19 He made the moon for the seasons; The sun knows the place of its setting. 
Psalms104:20 You appoint darkness so that it becomes night, In which all the beasts of the forest creep about." 
Psalms104:21 The young lions roar to go after their prey And to seek their food from God. 
Psalms104:22 When the sun rises they gather together And lie down in their dens. 
Psalms104:23 Man goes forth to his work And to his labor until evening. 
Psalms104:24 How numerous are Your works, O Yahweh! In wisdom You have made them all; The earth is full of Your possessions." 
Psalms104:25 This is the sea, great and broad, There the creeping things are without number, Creatures both small and great." 
Psalms104:26 There the ships move along, And Leviathan, which You have formed to play in it." 
Psalms104:27 They all wait for You To give them their food in due season. 
Psalms104:28 You give to them, they gather it up; You open Your hand, they are satisfied with good." 
Psalms104:29 You hide Your face, they are dismayed; You take away their spirit, they breathe their last And return to their dust." 
Psalms104:30 You send forth Your Spirit, they are created; And You renew the face of the ground." 
Psalms104:31 Let the glory of Yahweh endure forever; Let Yahweh be glad in His works; 
Psalms104:32 He looks at the earth, and it trembles; He touches the mountains, and they smoke." 
Psalms104:33 I will sing to Yahweh throughout my life; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. 
Psalms104:34 Let my musing be pleasing to Him; As for me, I shall be glad in Yahweh." 
Psalms104:35 Let sinners be consumed from the earth And let the wicked be no more. Bless Yahweh, O my soul. Praise Yah!" 
Psalms105:1 Oh give thanks to Yahweh, call upon His name; Make known His acts among the peoples." 
Psalms105:2 Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; Muse on all His wondrous deeds." 
Psalms105:3 Boast in His holy name; Let the heart of those who seek Yahweh be glad. 
Psalms105:4 Inquire of Yahweh and His strength; Seek His face continually. 
Psalms105:5 Remember His wondrous deeds which He has done, His miracles and the judgments uttered by His mouth," 
Psalms105:6 O seed of Abraham, His servant, O sons of Jacob, His chosen ones!" 
Psalms105:7 He is Yahweh our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 
Psalms105:8 He has remembered His covenant forever, The word which He commanded for a thousand generations," 
Psalms105:9 Which He cut with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac." 
Psalms105:10 Then He confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel as an everlasting covenant," 
Psalms105:11 Saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan As the portion of your inheritance,”" 
Psalms105:12 When they were only a few men in number, Of little account, and sojourners in it." 
Psalms105:13 And they wandered about from nation to nation, From one kingdom to another people." 
Psalms105:14 He permitted no man to oppress them, And He reproved kings for their sakes:" 
Psalms105:15 “Do not touch My anointed ones, And to My prophets do no evil.”" 
Psalms105:16 And He called for a famine upon the land; He broke the whole staff of bread. 
Psalms105:17 He sent a man before them, Joseph, who was sold as a slave." 
Psalms105:18 They afflicted his feet with fetters, He himself was laid in irons;" 
Psalms105:19 Until the time that his word came to pass, The word of Yahweh refined him." 
Psalms105:20 The king sent and released him, The ruler of peoples sent and set him free." 
Psalms105:21 He set him up as lord of his house And ruler over all his possessions," 
Psalms105:22 To imprison his princes at will, And that he might teach his elders wisdom." 
Psalms105:23 Then Israel came to Egypt; And Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. 
Psalms105:24 And He caused His people to be very fruitful, And He caused them to be stronger than their adversaries." 
Psalms105:25 He turned their heart to hate His people, To deal craftily with His slaves." 
Psalms105:26 He sent Moses His servant, And Aaron, whom He had chosen." 
Psalms105:27 They set forth the words of His signs among them, And miracles in the land of Ham." 
Psalms105:28 He sent darkness and made it dark; And they did not rebel against His words. 
Psalms105:29 He turned their waters into blood And caused their fish to die. 
Psalms105:30 Their land swarmed with frogs Even in the chambers of their kings. 
Psalms105:31 He spoke, and there came a swarm of flies And gnats in all their territory." 
Psalms105:32 He gave them hail for rain, And flaming fire in their land." 
Psalms105:33 He also struck down their vines and their fig trees, And He shattered the trees of their territory." 
Psalms105:34 He spoke, and locusts came, And creeping locusts, without number," 
Psalms105:35 And they ate up all vegetation in their land, And they ate up the fruit of their ground." 
Psalms105:36 He also struck down all the firstborn in their land, The first of all their vigor." 
Psalms105:37 Then He brought them out with silver and gold, And there was none among His tribes who stumbled." 
Psalms105:38 Egypt was glad when they went out, For the dread of them had fallen upon them." 
Psalms105:39 He spread a cloud for a covering, And fire to give light by night." 
Psalms105:40 They asked, and He brought quail, And He satisfied them with the bread of heaven." 
Psalms105:41 He opened the rock and water flowed out; It ran in the dry places like a river. 
Psalms105:42 For He remembered His holy word With Abraham His servant; 
Psalms105:43 And He brought His people out with joy, His chosen ones with a shout of joy." 
Psalms105:44 He gave them also the lands of the nations, That they might take possession of the fruit of the peoples’ labor," 
Psalms105:45 So that they might keep His statutes And observe His laws, Praise Yah!" 
Psalms106:1 Praise Yah! Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for He is good; For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms106:2 Who can speak of the mighty deeds of Yahweh, Or can make all His praise to be heard?" 
Psalms106:3 How blessed are those who keep justice, And he who does righteousness at all times!" 
Psalms106:4 Remember me, O Yahweh, in Your favor toward Your people; Visit me with Your salvation," 
Psalms106:5 That I may see the goodness of Your chosen ones, That I may rejoice in the gladness of Your nation, That I may boast with Your inheritance." 
Psalms106:6 We have sinned with our fathers, We have committed iniquity, we have acted wickedly." 
Psalms106:7 Our fathers in Egypt did not consider Your wondrous deeds; They did not remember Your abundant lovingkindnesses, But they rebelled by the sea, at the Red Sea." 
Psalms106:8 Yet He saved them for the sake of His name, That He might make His might known." 
Psalms106:9 Thus He rebuked the Red Sea and it dried up, And He led them through the deeps, as through the wilderness." 
Psalms106:10 So He saved them from the hand of the one who hated them, And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy." 
Psalms106:11 The waters covered their adversaries; Not one of them was left. 
Psalms106:12 Then they believed His words; They sang His praise. 
Psalms106:13 They quickly forgot His works; They did not wait for His counsel," 
Psalms106:14 But craved intensely in the wilderness, And put God to the test in the wasteland." 
Psalms106:15 So He gave them their request, But sent a wasting disease against their lives." 
Psalms106:16 Then they became envious of Moses in the camp, And of Aaron, the holy one of Yahweh," 
Psalms106:17 The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, And covered up the company of Abiram." 
Psalms106:18 And a fire burned up in their company; The flame consumed the wicked. 
Psalms106:19 They made a calf in Horeb And worshiped a molten image. 
Psalms106:20 Thus they exchanged their glory For the image of an ox that eats grass. 
Psalms106:21 They forgot God their Savior, Who had done great things in Egypt," 
Psalms106:22 Wondrous deeds in the land of Ham And awesome things by the Red Sea. 
Psalms106:23 Therefore He said that He would destroy them, Had not Moses His chosen one stood in the breach before Him, To turn away His wrath from eradicating them." 
Psalms106:24 Then they despised the pleasant land; They did not believe in His word," 
Psalms106:25 But grumbled in their tents; They did not listen to the voice of Yahweh. 
Psalms106:26 So He swore to them To make them fall in the wilderness," 
Psalms106:27 And to make their seed fall among the nations And to scatter them in the lands. 
Psalms106:28 They then joined themselves to Baal‑peor, And ate sacrifices offered to the dead." 
Psalms106:29 Thus they provoked Him to anger with their actions, And the plague broke out among them." 
Psalms106:30 Then Phinehas stood up and interceded, And so the plague was checked." 
Psalms106:31 And it was counted to him for righteousness, From generation to generation forever." 
Psalms106:32 They also provoked Him to wrath at the waters of Meribah, So that it went badly with Moses on their account;" 
Psalms106:33 Because they were rebellious against His Spirit, He spoke rashly with his lips." 
Psalms106:34 They did not destroy the peoples, As Yahweh commanded them," 
Psalms106:35 But they mingled with the nations And learned their works," 
Psalms106:36 And served their idols, Which became a snare to them." 
Psalms106:37 They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons," 
Psalms106:38 And they shed innocent blood, The blood of their sons and their daughters, Whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; And the land was polluted with the blood." 
Psalms106:39 Thus they became unclean in their works, And played the harlot in their actions." 
Psalms106:40 So the anger of Yahweh was kindled against His people And He abhorred His inheritance. 
Psalms106:41 Then He gave them into the hand of the nations, And those who hated them ruled over them." 
Psalms106:42 Their enemies oppressed them, And they were subdued under their hand." 
Psalms106:43 Many times He would deliver them; But they were rebellious in their counsel, And so they sank down in their iniquity." 
Psalms106:44 Nevertheless He looked upon their distress When He heard their cry of lamentation; 
Psalms106:45 And He remembered for them His covenant, And relented according to the abundance of His lovingkindness." 
Psalms106:46 He also made them objects of compassion In the presence of all their captors. 
Psalms106:47 Save us, O Yahweh our God, And gather us from among the nations, To give thanks to Your holy name And revel in Your praise." 
Psalms106:48 Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, From everlasting to everlasting. And let all the people say, “Amen.” Praise Yah!" 
Psalms107:1 Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for He is good, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms107:2 Let the redeemed of Yahweh say so, Whom He has redeemed from the hand of the adversary" 
Psalms107:3 And gathered from the lands, From the east and from the west, From the north and from the south." 
Psalms107:4 They wandered in the wilderness along the way of the wasteland; They did not find an inhabited city. 
Psalms107:5 Hungry and thirsty, Their soul fainted within them." 
Psalms107:6 Then they cried out to Yahweh in their trouble; He delivered them out of their distresses. 
Psalms107:7 He led them by a straight way, To go to an inhabited city." 
Psalms107:8 Let them give thanks to Yahweh for His lovingkindness, And for His wondrous deeds to the sons of men!" 
Psalms107:9 For He has satisfied the thirsty soul, And the hungry soul He has filled with what is good." 
Psalms107:10 There were those who inhabited darkness and the shadow of death, Prisoners in affliction and irons," 
Psalms107:11 Because they had rebelled against the words of God And spurned the counsel of the Most High. 
Psalms107:12 So He subdued their heart with labor; They stumbled and there was none to help. 
Psalms107:13 Then they cried out to Yahweh in their trouble; He saved them out of their distresses. 
Psalms107:14 He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death And broke their bands apart. 
Psalms107:15 Let them give thanks to Yahweh for His lovingkindness, And for His wondrous deeds to the sons of men!" 
Psalms107:16 For He has shattered the doors of bronze And cut through the bars of iron. 
Psalms107:17 Ignorant fools, because of their way of transgression, And because of their iniquities, were afflicted." 
Psalms107:18 Their soul abhorred all kinds of food, And they reached the gates of death." 
Psalms107:19 Then they cried out to Yahweh in their trouble; He saved them out of their distresses. 
Psalms107:20 He sent His word and healed them, And provided them escape from their destructions." 
Psalms107:21 Let them give thanks to Yahweh for His lovingkindness, And for His wondrous deeds to the sons of men!" 
Psalms107:22 Let them also offer sacrifices of thanksgiving, And recount His works with joyful singing." 
Psalms107:23 Those who go down to the sea in ships, Who do business on many waters;" 
Psalms107:24 They have seen the works of Yahweh, And His wondrous deeds in the deep." 
Psalms107:25 He spoke and set up a stormy wind, Which raised up the waves of the sea." 
Psalms107:26 They went up to the heavens, they went down to the depths; Their soul melted away in the calamity." 
Psalms107:27 They staggered and swayed like a drunken man, And all their wisdom was swallowed up." 
Psalms107:28 Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble, And He brought them out of their distresses." 
Psalms107:29 He caused the storm to stand still, So that its waves were hushed." 
Psalms107:30 Then they were glad because they were quiet, So He led them to their desired haven." 
Psalms107:31 Let them give thanks to Yahweh for His lovingkindness, And for His wondrous deeds to the sons of men!" 
Psalms107:32 Let them exalt Him also in the assembly of the people, And praise Him at the seat of the elders." 
Psalms107:33 He makes rivers into a wilderness And springs of water into a thirsty ground; 
Psalms107:34 A fruitful land into a salt waste, Because of the evil of those who inhabited it." 
Psalms107:35 He makes a wilderness into a pool of water And a dry land into springs of water; 
Psalms107:36 And there He causes the hungry to inhabit, So that they may establish an inhabited city," 
Psalms107:37 And sow fields and plant vineyards, And produce a fruitful harvest." 
Psalms107:38 Also He blesses them and they multiply greatly, And He does not let their cattle decrease." 
Psalms107:39 But when they decrease and are bowed down Through oppression, evil, and sorrow," 
Psalms107:40 He pours contempt upon nobles And makes them wander in a pathless void. 
Psalms107:41 But He sets the needy securely on high away from affliction, And makes his families like a flock." 
Psalms107:42 The upright see it and are glad; But all unrighteousness shuts its mouth. 
Psalms107:43 Who is wise? Let him keep these things, And carefully consider the lovingkindnesses of Yahweh." 
Psalms108:1 A Song. A Psalm of David. My heart is set, O God; I will sing, I will sing praises, even with my glory." 
Psalms108:2 Awake, harp and lyre; I will awaken the dawn!" 
Psalms108:3 I will give thanks to You, O Yahweh, among the peoples, And I will sing praises to You among the nations." 
Psalms108:4 For Your lovingkindness is great above the heavens, And Your truth reaches to the skies." 
Psalms108:5 Be exalted above the heavens, O God, And Your glory above all the earth." 
Psalms108:6 That Your beloved may be rescued, Save with Your right hand, and answer me!" 
Psalms108:7 God has spoken in His holiness: “I will exult, I will portion out Shechem And measure out the valley of Succoth." 
Psalms108:8 Gilead is Mine, Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is the helmet of My head; Judah is My scepter." 
Psalms108:9 Moab is My washbowl; Over Edom I shall throw My shoe; Over Philistia I will make a loud shout.” 
Psalms108:10 Who will bring me into the well‑defended city? Who will lead me to Edom? 
Psalms108:11 Have You, O God, not rejected us? And will You, O God, not go forth with our armies?" 
Psalms108:12 Oh give us help against the adversary, For salvation by man is worthless." 
Psalms108:13 Through God we shall do valiantly, And it is He who will tread down our adversaries." 
Psalms109:1 For the choir director. Of David. A Psalm. O God of my praise, Do not be silent!" 
Psalms109:2 For they have opened a wicked mouth and a deceitful mouth against me; They have spoken to me with a lying tongue. 
Psalms109:3 They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, And fought against me without cause." 
Psalms109:4 In return for my love they accuse me; But I am in prayer. 
Psalms109:5 Thus they have set upon me evil for good And hatred for my love. 
Psalms109:6 Appoint a wicked man over him, And let an accuser stand at his right hand." 
Psalms109:7 When he is judged, let him come forth a wicked man, And let his prayer become sin." 
Psalms109:8 Let his days be few; Let another take his office. 
Psalms109:9 Let his sons be orphans And his wife a widow. 
Psalms109:10 Let his sons wander aimlessly and beg; And let them search for food from their ruined homes. 
Psalms109:11 Let the creditor seize all that he has, And let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor." 
Psalms109:12 Let there be none to extend lovingkindness to him, And let there be none to be gracious to his orphans." 
Psalms109:13 Let those who follow him be cut off; In a following generation let their name be blotted out. 
Psalms109:14 Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before Yahweh, And let not the sin of his mother be blotted out." 
Psalms109:15 Let them be before Yahweh continually, That He may cut off their memory from the earth;" 
Psalms109:16 Because he did not remember to show lovingkindness, But persecuted the afflicted, the needy man, And the disheartened to put them to death." 
Psalms109:17 He also loved cursing, so it came to him; And he did not delight in blessing, so it was far from him." 
Psalms109:18 But he clothed himself with cursing as his garment, And it came into his inward parts like water And like oil into his bones." 
Psalms109:19 Let it be to him as a garment with which he wraps himself, And for a belt with which he constantly girds himself." 
Psalms109:20 This is the reward of my accusers from Yahweh, And of those who speak evil against my soul." 
Psalms109:21 But as for You, O Yahweh, O Lord, deal with me for Your name’s sake; Because Your lovingkindness is good, deliver me;" 
Psalms109:22 For I am afflicted and needy, And my heart is pierced within me." 
Psalms109:23 I am passing like a shadow when it is stretched out; I am shaken off like the locust. 
Psalms109:24 My knees are feeble from fasting, And my flesh has grown lean, without fatness." 
Psalms109:25 As for me, I have become a reproach to them; They see me, they wag their head." 
Psalms109:26 Help me, O Yahweh my God; Save me according to Your lovingkindness." 
Psalms109:27 And let them know that this is Your hand; You, O Yahweh, have done it." 
Psalms109:28 Let them curse, but You bless; They arise and will be put to shame, But Your slave shall be glad." 
Psalms109:29 Let my accusers be clothed with dishonor, And let them wrap themselves with their own shame as with a robe." 
Psalms109:30 With my mouth I will give thanks abundantly to Yahweh; And in the midst of many I will praise Him. 
Psalms109:31 For He stands at the right hand of the needy, To save him from those who judge his soul." 
Psalms110:1 Of David. A Psalm. Yahweh says to my Lord: “Sit at My right hand Until I put Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet.” 
Psalms110:2 Yahweh will stretch forth Your strong scepter from Zion, saying, “Have dominion in the midst of Your enemies.”" 
Psalms110:3 Your people will offer themselves freely in the day of Your power; In the splendor of holiness, from the womb of the dawn, The dew of Your youthfulness will be Yours." 
Psalms110:4 Yahweh has sworn and will not change His mind, “You are a priest forever According to the order of Melchizedek.”" 
Psalms110:5 The Lord is at Your right hand; He will crush kings in the day of His anger. 
Psalms110:6 He will render justice among the nations, He will fill them with corpses, He will crush the head that is over the wide earth." 
Psalms110:7 He will drink from the brook by the wayside; Therefore He will lift up His head. 
Psalms111:1 Praise Yah! I will give thanks to Yahweh with all my heart, In the council of the upright and in the congregation." 
Psalms111:2 Great are the works of Yahweh; They are sought by all who delight in them. 
Psalms111:3 Splendid and majestic is His work, And His righteousness stands forever." 
Psalms111:4 He has made His wondrous deeds to be remembered; Yahweh is gracious and compassionate. 
Psalms111:5 He has given food to those who fear Him; He will remember His covenant forever. 
Psalms111:6 He has declared to His people the power of His works, In giving them an inheritance of the nations." 
Psalms111:7 The works of His hands are truth and justice; All His precepts are faithful. 
Psalms111:8 They are upheld forever and ever; They are done in truth and uprightness. 
Psalms111:9 He has sent redemption to His people; He has commanded His covenant forever; Holy and fearsome is His name. 
Psalms111:10 The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom; Good insight belongs to all those who do His commandments; His praise stands forever. 
Psalms112:1 Praise Yah! How blessed is the man who fears Yahweh, Who greatly delights in His commandments." 
Psalms112:2 His seed will be mighty on earth; The generation of the upright will be blessed. 
Psalms112:3 Wealth and riches are in his house, And his righteousness stands forever." 
Psalms112:4 Light arises in the darkness for the upright; He is gracious and compassionate and righteous. 
Psalms112:5 It is well with the man who is gracious and lends; Who sustains his works with justice. 
Psalms112:6 For he will never be shaken; The righteous will be remembered forever. 
Psalms112:7 He will not fear an evil report; His heart is set, trusting in Yahweh." 
Psalms112:8 His heart is upheld, he will not fear, Until he looks in triumph on his adversaries." 
Psalms112:9 He has given freely to the needy, His righteousness stands forever; His horn will be raised in glory." 
Psalms112:10 The wicked will see it and be vexed, He will gnash his teeth and melt away; The desire of the wicked will perish." 
Psalms113:1 Praise Yah! Praise, O slaves of Yahweh, Praise the name of Yahweh." 
Psalms113:2 May the name of Yahweh be blessed From now until forever. 
Psalms113:3 From the rising of the sun to its setting The name of Yahweh is to be praised. 
Psalms113:4 Yahweh is high above all nations; His glory is above the heavens. 
Psalms113:5 Who is like Yahweh our God, The One who sits on high," 
Psalms113:6 The One who brings Himself low to see The things in heaven and on the earth? 
Psalms113:7 Who raises the poor from the dust And lifts high the needy from the ash heap," 
Psalms113:8 To make them sit with nobles, With the nobles of His people." 
Psalms113:9 He makes the barren woman of the house sit As a glad mother of children. Praise Yah! 
Psalms114:1 When Israel went out from Egypt, The house of Jacob from a people of strange language," 
Psalms114:2 Judah became His sanctuary, Israel, His dominion." 
Psalms114:3 The sea looked and fled; The Jordan turned back. 
Psalms114:4 The mountains skipped like rams, The hills, like lambs." 
Psalms114:5 What disturbs you, O sea, that you flee? O Jordan, that you turn back?" 
Psalms114:6 O mountains, that you skip like rams? O hills, like lambs?" 
Psalms114:7 Tremble, O earth, before the Lord, Before the God of Jacob," 
Psalms114:8 Who turned the rock into a pool of water, The flint into a spring of water." 
Psalms115:1 Not to us, O Yahweh, not to us, But to Your name give glory Because of Your lovingkindness, because of Your truth." 
Psalms115:2 Why should the nations say, “Where, now, is their God?”" 
Psalms115:3 But our God is in the heavens; He does whatever He pleases. 
Psalms115:4 Their idols are silver and gold, The work of man’s hands." 
Psalms115:5 They have mouths, but they do not speak; They have eyes, but they do not see;" 
Psalms115:6 They have ears, but they do not hear; They have noses, but they do not smell;" 
Psalms115:7 As for their hands, they do not feel; As for their feet, they do not walk; They do not make a sound with their throat." 
Psalms115:8 Those who make them will become like them, Everyone who trusts in them." 
Psalms115:9 O Israel, trust in Yahweh; He is their help and their shield." 
Psalms115:10 O house of Aaron, trust in Yahweh; He is their help and their shield." 
Psalms115:11 You who fear Yahweh, trust in Yahweh; He is their help and their shield." 
Psalms115:12 Yahweh remembered us; He will bless! He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aaron. 
Psalms115:13 He will bless those who fear Yahweh, The small together with the great." 
Psalms115:14 May Yahweh give you increase, You and your children." 
Psalms115:15 May you be blessed of Yahweh, Who made heaven and earth." 
Psalms115:16 The heavens are the heavens of Yahweh, But the earth He has given to the sons of men." 
Psalms115:17 It is not the dead that praise Yah, And it is none of those who go down to silence;" 
Psalms115:18 But as for us, we will bless Yah From now until forever. Praise Yah!" 
Psalms116:1 I love Yahweh, because He hears My voice and my supplications." 
Psalms116:2 Because He has inclined His ear to me, So I shall call upon Him in all my days." 
Psalms116:3 The cords of death encompassed me And the distresses of Sheol found me; I found distress and sorrow. 
Psalms116:4 Then I called upon the name of Yahweh: “O Yahweh, I beseech You, provide my soul escape!”" 
Psalms116:5 Gracious is Yahweh, and righteous; And our God is compassionate." 
Psalms116:6 Yahweh keeps the simple; I was brought low, and He saved me." 
Psalms116:7 Return to your rest, O my soul, For Yahweh has dealt bountifully with you." 
Psalms116:8 For You have rescued my soul from death, My eyes from tears, My feet from stumbling." 
Psalms116:9 I shall walk before Yahweh In the land of the living. 
Psalms116:10 I believed when I said, “I am greatly afflicted.”" 
Psalms116:11 I said in my alarm, “All men are liars.”" 
Psalms116:12 What shall I give to Yahweh in return For all His bountiful dealings with me? 
Psalms116:13 I shall lift up the cup of salvation And call upon the name of Yahweh. 
Psalms116:14 I shall pay my vows to Yahweh, Oh may it be in the presence of all His people." 
Psalms116:15 Precious in the sight of Yahweh Is the death of His holy ones. 
Psalms116:16 O Yahweh, surely I am Your slave, I am Your slave, the son of Your maidservant, You have loosed my bonds." 
Psalms116:17 To You I shall offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving, And call upon the name of Yahweh." 
Psalms116:18 I shall pay my vows to Yahweh, Oh may it be in the presence of all His people," 
Psalms116:19 In the courts of the house of Yahweh, In the midst of you, O Jerusalem. Praise Yah!" 
Psalms117:1 Praise Yahweh, all nations; Laud Him, all peoples!" 
Psalms117:2 For His lovingkindness prevails over us, And the truth of Yahweh is everlasting. Praise Yah!" 
Psalms118:1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for He is good; For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms118:2 Oh let Israel say, “His lovingkindness endures forever.”" 
Psalms118:3 Oh let the house of Aaron say, “His lovingkindness endures forever.”" 
Psalms118:4 Oh let those who fear Yahweh say, “His lovingkindness endures forever.”" 
Psalms118:5 From my distress I called upon Yah; Yah answered me and set me in a large place. 
Psalms118:6 Yahweh is for me; I will not fear; What can man do to me? 
Psalms118:7 Yahweh is for me among those who help me; Therefore I will look in triumph on those who hate me. 
Psalms118:8 It is better to take refuge in Yahweh Than to trust in man. 
Psalms118:9 It is better to take refuge in Yahweh Than to trust in nobles. 
Psalms118:10 All nations surrounded me; In the name of Yahweh I will surely cut them off. 
Psalms118:11 They surrounded me, indeed, they surrounded me; In the name of Yahweh I will surely cut them off." 
Psalms118:12 They surrounded me like bees; They were extinguished as a fire of thorns; In the name of Yahweh I will surely cut them off. 
Psalms118:13 You pushed me down violently to make me fall, But Yahweh helped me." 
Psalms118:14 Yah is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation." 
Psalms118:15 The sound of joyful shouting and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly. 
Psalms118:16 The right hand of Yahweh is exalted; The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly. 
Psalms118:17 I will not die; indeed I will live, And recount the works of Yah." 
Psalms118:18 Yah has disciplined me severely, But He has not given me over to death." 
Psalms118:19 Open to me the gates of righteousness; I shall enter through them, I shall give thanks to Yah." 
Psalms118:20 This is the gate of Yahweh; The righteous will enter through it. 
Psalms118:21 I shall give thanks to You, for You have answered me, And You have become my salvation." 
Psalms118:22 The stone which the builders rejected Has become the chief corner stone. 
Psalms118:23 This is from Yahweh; It is marvelous in our eyes. 
Psalms118:24 This is the day which Yahweh has made; Let us rejoice and be glad in it. 
Psalms118:25 O Yahweh, save! O Yahweh, succeed!" 
Psalms118:26 Blessed is the one who comes in the name of Yahweh; We have blessed you from the house of Yahweh. 
Psalms118:27 Yahweh is God, and He has given us light; Bind the festival sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar." 
Psalms118:28 You are my God, and I give thanks to You; You are my God, I exalt You." 
Psalms118:29 Give thanks to Yahweh, for He is good; For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms119:1 How blessed are those whose way is blameless, Who walk in the law of Yahweh." 
Psalms119:2 How blessed are those who observe His testimonies, They seek Him with all their heart." 
Psalms119:3 They also do not work unrighteousness; They walk in His ways. 
Psalms119:4 You have commanded us, To keep Your precepts diligently." 
Psalms119:5 Oh may my ways be established To keep Your statutes! 
Psalms119:6 Then I shall not be ashamed When I look upon all Your commandments. 
Psalms119:7 I shall give thanks to You with uprightness of heart, When I learn Your righteous judgments." 
Psalms119:8 I shall keep Your statutes; Do not forsake me utterly! 
Psalms119:9 How can a young man keep his way pure? By keeping it according to Your word. 
Psalms119:10 With all my heart I have sought You; Do not let me stray from Your commandments. 
Psalms119:11 Your word I have treasured in my heart, That I may not sin against You." 
Psalms119:12 Blessed are You, O Yahweh; Teach me Your statutes." 
Psalms119:13 With my lips I have recounted All the judgments of Your mouth. 
Psalms119:14 I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies, As much as in all riches." 
Psalms119:15 I will muse upon Your precepts And look upon Your ways. 
Psalms119:16 I shall delight in Your statutes; I shall not forget Your word. 
Psalms119:17 Deal bountifully with Your slave, That I may live and keep Your word." 
Psalms119:18 Open my eyes, that I may behold Wonderful things from Your law." 
Psalms119:19 I am a sojourner in the earth; Do not hide Your commandments from me. 
Psalms119:20 My soul is crushed with longing For Your judgments at all times. 
Psalms119:21 You rebuke the arrogant, the cursed, Who stray from Your commandments." 
Psalms119:22 Take away reproach and contempt from me, For I observe Your testimonies." 
Psalms119:23 Even though princes sit and talk against me, Your slave muses on Your statutes." 
Psalms119:24 Your testimonies also are my delight; They are my counselors. 
Psalms119:25 My soul clings to the dust; Revive me according to Your word. 
Psalms119:26 I have recounted my ways, and You have answered me; Teach me Your statutes." 
Psalms119:27 Make me understand the way of Your precepts, So I will muse on Your wondrous deeds." 
Psalms119:28 My soul weeps because of grief; Raise me up according to Your word. 
Psalms119:29 Remove the false way from me, And graciously grant me Your law." 
Psalms119:30 I have chosen the faithful way; I have placed Your judgments before me. 
Psalms119:31 I cling to Your testimonies; O Yahweh, do not put me to shame!" 
Psalms119:32 I shall run the way of Your commandments, For You will enlarge my heart." 
Psalms119:33 Instruct me, O Yahweh, in the way of Your statutes, That I may observe it to the end." 
Psalms119:34 Cause me to understand, that I may observe Your law And keep it with all my heart." 
Psalms119:35 Cause me to walk in the path of Your commandments, For I delight in it." 
Psalms119:36 Cause my heart to incline to Your testimonies And not to dishonest gain. 
Psalms119:37 Cause my eyes to turn away from looking at worthlessness, And revive me in Your ways." 
Psalms119:38 Cause Your word to be established for Your slave, As that which produces fear for You." 
Psalms119:39 Cause my reproach which I dread to pass away, For Your judgments are good." 
Psalms119:40 Behold, I long for Your precepts; Revive me in Your righteousness." 
Psalms119:41 May Your lovingkindnesses also come to me, O Yahweh, Your salvation according to Your word;" 
Psalms119:42 So I will have an answer for him who reproaches me, For I trust in Your word." 
Psalms119:43 And do not take away the word of truth utterly from my mouth, For I wait for Your judgments." 
Psalms119:44 So I will keep Your law continually, Forever and ever." 
Psalms119:45 And I will walk in a wide place, For I seek Your precepts." 
Psalms119:46 I will also speak of Your testimonies before kings And I shall not be ashamed. 
Psalms119:47 I shall delight in Your commandments, Which I love." 
Psalms119:48 And I shall lift up my hands to Your commandments, Which I love; And I will muse on Your statutes." 
Psalms119:49 Remember the word to Your slave, In which You have made me wait." 
Psalms119:50 This is my comfort in my affliction, That Your word has revived me." 
Psalms119:51 The arrogant utterly scoff at me, Yet I do not turn aside from Your law." 
Psalms119:52 I have remembered Your judgments from of old, O Yahweh, And comfort myself." 
Psalms119:53 Burning indignation has seized me because of the wicked, Who forsake Your law." 
Psalms119:54 Your statutes have become my songs In the house of my sojourning. 
Psalms119:55 I remember in the night Your name, O Yahweh, So I keep Your law." 
Psalms119:56 This has become mine, That I observe Your precepts." 
Psalms119:57 Yahweh is my portion; I have promised to keep Your words. 
Psalms119:58 I have sought to please Your face with all my heart; Be gracious to me according to Your word. 
Psalms119:59 I thought upon my ways And I turned my feet to Your testimonies. 
Psalms119:60 I hastened and did not delay To keep Your commandments. 
Psalms119:61 The cords of the wicked have encircled me, But I have not forgotten Your law." 
Psalms119:62 At midnight I shall rise to give thanks to You Because of Your righteous judgments. 
Psalms119:63 I am a companion of all those who fear You, And of those who keep Your precepts." 
Psalms119:64 The earth, O Yahweh, is full of Your lovingkindness; Teach me Your statutes." 
Psalms119:65 You have dealt well with Your slave, O Yahweh, according to Your word." 
Psalms119:66 Teach me good discernment and knowledge, For I believe in Your commandments." 
Psalms119:67 Before I was afflicted I went astray, But now I keep Your word." 
Psalms119:68 You are good and do good; Teach me Your statutes. 
Psalms119:69 The arrogant have smeared me with lying; With all my heart I will observe Your precepts. 
Psalms119:70 Their heart is covered with fat, But I delight in Your law." 
Psalms119:71 It is good for me that I was afflicted, That I may learn Your statutes." 
Psalms119:72 The law of Your mouth is better to me Than thousands of gold and silver pieces. 
Psalms119:73 Your hands made me and established me; Give me understanding, that I may learn Your commandments." 
Psalms119:74 May those who fear You see me and be glad, Because I wait for Your word." 
Psalms119:75 I know, O Yahweh, that Your judgments are righteous, And that in faithfulness You have afflicted me." 
Psalms119:76 Oh may Your lovingkindness comfort me, According to Your word to Your slave." 
Psalms119:77 May Your compassion come to me that I may live, For Your law is my delight." 
Psalms119:78 May the arrogant be ashamed, for they wrong me with lying; But I shall muse on Your precepts." 
Psalms119:79 May those who fear You turn to me, And those who know Your testimonies." 
Psalms119:80 May my heart be blameless in Your statutes, So that I will not be ashamed." 
Psalms119:81 My soul fails with longing for Your salvation; I wait for Your word. 
Psalms119:82 My eyes fail with longing for Your word, Saying, “When will You comfort me?”" 
Psalms119:83 For I am like a wineskin in the smoke, But I do not forget Your statutes." 
Psalms119:84 How many are the days of Your slave? When will You execute judgment on those who persecute me? 
Psalms119:85 The arrogant have dug pits for me, Men who are not in accord with Your law." 
Psalms119:86 All Your commandments are faithful; They have persecuted me with lying; help me! 
Psalms119:87 They almost made an end of me on the earth, But as for me, I did not forsake Your precepts." 
Psalms119:88 Revive me according to Your lovingkindness, So that I may keep the testimony of Your mouth." 
Psalms119:89 Forever, O Yahweh, Your word stands firm in heaven." 
Psalms119:90 Your faithfulness endures from generation to generation; You established the earth, and it stands." 
Psalms119:91 They stand this day according to Your judgments, For all things are Your slaves." 
Psalms119:92 If Your law had not been my delight, Then I would have perished in my affliction." 
Psalms119:93 I will never forget Your precepts, For by them You have revived me." 
Psalms119:94 I am Yours, save me; For I have sought Your precepts." 
Psalms119:95 The wicked hope for me—to destroy me; I shall perceive Your testimonies. 
Psalms119:96 I have seen a limit to all perfection; Your commandment is exceedingly broad. 
Psalms119:97 Oh how I love Your law! It is my meditation all the day. 
Psalms119:98 Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, For they are mine forever." 
Psalms119:99 I have more insight than all my teachers, For Your testimonies are my meditation." 
Psalms119:100 I perceive more than the aged, Because I have observed Your precepts." 
Psalms119:101 I have restrained my feet from every evil way, That I may keep Your word." 
Psalms119:102 I have not turned aside from Your judgments, For You Yourself have taught me." 
Psalms119:103 How sweet is Your word to my taste! Sweeter than honey to my mouth! 
Psalms119:104 From Your precepts I get perception; Therefore I hate every false way. 
Psalms119:105 Your word is a lamp to my feet And a light to my path. 
Psalms119:106 I have sworn and I have confirmed, To keep Your righteous judgments." 
Psalms119:107 I am exceedingly afflicted; O Yahweh, revive me according to Your word." 
Psalms119:108 Oh be pleased with the freewill offerings of my mouth, O Yahweh, And teach me Your judgments." 
Psalms119:109 My soul is continually in my hand, Yet I do not forget Your law." 
Psalms119:110 The wicked have laid a snare for me, Yet I have not wandered from Your precepts." 
Psalms119:111 I have inherited Your testimonies forever, For they are the joy of my heart." 
Psalms119:112 I have inclined my heart to do Your statutes Forever, to the end." 
Psalms119:113 I hate those who are double‑minded, But I love Your law." 
Psalms119:114 You are my hiding place and my shield; I wait for Your word. 
Psalms119:115 Depart from me, evildoers, That I may observe the commandments of my God." 
Psalms119:116 Sustain me according to Your word, that I may live; And do not put me to shame because of my hope." 
Psalms119:117 Uphold me that I may be saved, That I may have regard for Your statutes continually." 
Psalms119:118 You have rejected all those who stray from Your statutes, For their deceitfulness is a lie." 
Psalms119:119 You remove all the wicked of the earth like dross; Therefore I love Your testimonies. 
Psalms119:120 My flesh quakes for dread of You, And I am afraid of Your judgments." 
Psalms119:121 I have done justice and righteousness; Do not leave me to my oppressors. 
Psalms119:122 Be for Your slave a guarantee for good; Do not let the arrogant oppress me. 
Psalms119:123 My eyes fail with longing for Your salvation And for Your righteous word. 
Psalms119:124 Deal with Your slave according to Your lovingkindness And teach me Your statutes. 
Psalms119:125 I am Your slave; give me understanding, That I may know Your testimonies." 
Psalms119:126 It is time for Yahweh to act, For they have broken Your law." 
Psalms119:127 Therefore I love Your commandments Above gold, even above fine gold." 
Psalms119:128 Therefore I deem all Your precepts concerning everything to be right, I hate every false way." 
Psalms119:129 Your testimonies are wonderful; Therefore my soul observes them. 
Psalms119:130 The unfolding of Your words gives light; It gives understanding to the simple. 
Psalms119:131 I opened my mouth wide and panted, For I longed for Your commandments." 
Psalms119:132 Turn to me and be gracious to me, According to Your judgment for those who love Your name." 
Psalms119:133 Establish my steps in Your word, And do not let any wickedness overpower me." 
Psalms119:134 Redeem me from the oppression of man, That I may keep Your precepts." 
Psalms119:135 Make Your face shine upon Your slave, And teach me Your statutes." 
Psalms119:136 My eyes shed streams of water, Because they do not keep Your law." 
Psalms119:137 Righteous are You, O Yahweh, And upright are Your judgments." 
Psalms119:138 In righteousness, You have commanded Your testimonies And in exceeding faithfulness." 
Psalms119:139 My zeal has consumed me, Because my adversaries have forgotten Your words." 
Psalms119:140 Your word is exceedingly refined, Therefore Your slave loves it." 
Psalms119:141 I am small and despised, Yet I do not forget Your precepts." 
Psalms119:142 Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, And Your law is truth." 
Psalms119:143 Trouble and anguish have found me, Yet Your commandments are my delight." 
Psalms119:144 Righteous are Your testimonies forever; Give me understanding that I may live. 
Psalms119:145 I called with all my heart; answer me, O Yahweh! I will observe Your statutes." 
Psalms119:146 I called to You; save me And I shall keep Your testimonies. 
Psalms119:147 I eagerly greet the dawn and cry for help; I wait for Your words. 
Psalms119:148 My eyes eagerly greet the night watches, That I may muse on Your word." 
Psalms119:149 Hear my voice according to Your lovingkindness; O Yahweh, revive me, according to Your judgments." 
Psalms119:150 Near are those who pursue wickedness; They are far from Your law. 
Psalms119:151 Near are You, O Yahweh, And all Your commandments are truth." 
Psalms119:152 Of old I have known from Your testimonies That You have founded them forever. 
Psalms119:153 See my affliction and rescue me, For I do not forget Your law." 
Psalms119:154 Plead my cause and redeem me; Revive me according to Your word. 
Psalms119:155 Salvation is far from the wicked, For they do not seek Your statutes." 
Psalms119:156 Many are Your compassions, O Yahweh; Revive me according to Your judgments." 
Psalms119:157 Many are my persecutors and my adversaries, Yet I do not turn aside from Your testimonies." 
Psalms119:158 I see the treacherous and loathe them, Those who do not keep Your word." 
Psalms119:159 See how I love Your precepts; O Yahweh, revive me according to Your lovingkindness." 
Psalms119:160 The sum of Your word is truth, And every one of Your righteous judgments is everlasting." 
Psalms119:161 Princes persecute me without cause, But my heart is in dread of Your words." 
Psalms119:162 I rejoice at Your word, As one who finds much spoil." 
Psalms119:163 I hate and abhor lying, But I love Your law." 
Psalms119:164 Seven times a day I praise You, Because of Your righteous judgments." 
Psalms119:165 Those who love Your law have much peace, And nothing causes them to stumble." 
Psalms119:166 I hope for Your salvation, O Yahweh, And I do Your commandments." 
Psalms119:167 My soul keeps Your testimonies, And I love them exceedingly." 
Psalms119:168 I keep Your precepts and Your testimonies, For all my ways are before You." 
Psalms119:169 Let my cry of lamentation come near before You, O Yahweh; Give me understanding according to Your word." 
Psalms119:170 Let my supplication come before You; Deliver me according to Your word. 
Psalms119:171 Let my lips pour forth praise, For You teach me Your statutes." 
Psalms119:172 Let my tongue answer with Your word, For all Your commandments are righteous." 
Psalms119:173 Let Your hand be ready to help me, For I have chosen Your precepts." 
Psalms119:174 I long for Your salvation, O Yahweh, And Your law is my delight." 
Psalms119:175 Let my soul live that it may praise You, And let Your judgments help me." 
Psalms119:176 I have wandered off like a lost sheep; search for Your slave, For I have not forgotten Your commandments." 
Psalms120:1 A Song of Ascents. In my distress I called to Yahweh, And He answered me." 
Psalms120:2 O Yahweh, deliver my soul from a lying lip, From a deceitful tongue." 
Psalms120:3 What shall He give to you, and what shall He add to you, O deceitful tongue?" 
Psalms120:4 Sharp arrows of the warrior, With the burning coals of the broom tree." 
Psalms120:5 Woe is me, for I sojourn in Meshech, For I dwell among the tents of Kedar!" 
Psalms120:6 Too long has my soul had its dwelling With those who hate peace. 
Psalms120:7 I am for peace, but when I speak, They are for war." 
Psalms121:1 A Song of Ascents. I will lift up my eyes to the mountains; From where shall my help come? 
Psalms121:2 My help comes from Yahweh, Who made heaven and earth." 
Psalms121:3 He will not allow your foot to stumble; He who keeps you will not slumber. 
Psalms121:4 Behold, He who keeps Israel Will not slumber and will not sleep." 
Psalms121:5 Yahweh is your keeper; Yahweh is your shade on your right hand. 
Psalms121:6 The sun will not strike you by day, Nor the moon by night." 
Psalms121:7 Yahweh will keep you from all evil; He will keep your soul. 
Psalms121:8 Yahweh will keep your going out and your coming in From now until forever. 
Psalms122:1 A Song of Ascents. Of David. I was glad when they said to me, “Let us go to the house of Yahweh.”" 
Psalms122:2 Our feet are standing Within your gates, O Jerusalem," 
Psalms122:3 Jerusalem, which is built As a city joined altogether;" 
Psalms122:4 To which the tribes, the tribes of Yah, go up— A testimony for Israel— To give thanks to the name of Yahweh." 
Psalms122:5 For there, thrones sit for judgment, The thrones of the house of David." 
Psalms122:6 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: “May they prosper who love you. 
Psalms122:7 May peace be within your walls, And tranquility within your palaces.”" 
Psalms122:8 For the sake of my brothers and my friends, I will now say, “May peace be within you.”" 
Psalms122:9 For the sake of the house of Yahweh our God, I will seek your good." 
Psalms123:1 A Song of Ascents. To You I lift up my eyes, The One enthroned in the heavens!" 
Psalms123:2 Behold, as the eyes of slaves look to the hand of their master, As the eyes of a servant‑girl to the hand of her mistress, So our eyes look to Yahweh our God, Until He is gracious to us." 
Psalms123:3 Be gracious to us, O Yahweh, be gracious to us, For we are greatly saturated with contempt." 
Psalms123:4 Our soul is greatly saturated With the mockery of those who are at ease, And with the contempt of the proud." 
Psalms124:1 A Song of Ascents. Of David. “Had it not been Yahweh who was on our side,” Let Israel now say," 
Psalms124:2 “Had it not been Yahweh who was on our side When men rose up against us," 
Psalms124:3 Then they would have swallowed us alive, When their anger was kindled against us;" 
Psalms124:4 Then the waters would have flowed over us, The stream would have swept over our soul;" 
Psalms124:5 Then the raging waters would have swept over our soul.” 
Psalms124:6 Blessed be Yahweh, Who has not given us to be prey for their teeth." 
Psalms124:7 Our soul has escaped as a bird out of the snare of the trapper; The snare is broken and we have escaped. 
Psalms124:8 Our help is in the name of Yahweh, Who made heaven and earth." 
Psalms125:1 A Song of Ascents. Those who trust in Yahweh Are as Mount Zion, which will not be shaken but will abide forever." 
Psalms125:2 As the mountains surround Jerusalem, So Yahweh surrounds His people From now until forever." 
Psalms125:3 For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest upon the land of the righteous, So that the righteous would not send forth their hands in unrighteousness." 
Psalms125:4 Do good, O Yahweh, to those who are good And to those who are upright in their hearts." 
Psalms125:5 But as for those who turn aside to their crooked ways, Yahweh will lead them away with the workers of iniquity. Peace be upon Israel." 
Psalms126:1 A Song of Ascents. When Yahweh returned the captive ones of Zion, We were like those who dream." 
Psalms126:2 Then our mouth was filled with laughter And our tongue with shouts of joy; Then they said among the nations, “Yahweh has done great things for them.”" 
Psalms126:3 Yahweh has done great things for us; We are glad. 
Psalms126:4 Restore our captivity, O Yahweh, As the streams in the Negev." 
Psalms126:5 Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy. 
Psalms126:6 He who goes to and fro weeping, carrying his bag of seed, Shall indeed come again with a shout of joy, carrying his sheaves with him." 
Psalms127:1 A Song of Ascents. Of Solomon. Unless Yahweh builds the house, They labor in vain who build it; Unless Yahweh watches the city, The watchman keeps awake in vain." 
Psalms127:2 It is in vain that you rise up early, That you sit out late, O you who eat the bread of painful labors; For in this manner, He gives sleep to His beloved." 
Psalms127:3 Behold, children are an inheritance of Yahweh, The fruit of the womb is a reward." 
Psalms127:4 Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, So are the children of one’s youth." 
Psalms127:5 How blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them; They will not be ashamed When they speak with enemies in the gate. 
Psalms128:1 A Song of Ascents. How blessed is everyone who fears Yahweh, Who walks in His ways." 
Psalms128:2 When you shall eat of the fruit of the labor of your hands, How blessed will you be and how well will it be for you." 
Psalms128:3 Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine In the innermost parts of your house, Your children like olive plants All around your table." 
Psalms128:4 Behold, for thus shall the man be blessed Who fears Yahweh." 
Psalms128:5 May Yahweh bless you from Zion, That you may see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life." 
Psalms128:6 Indeed, may you see your children’s children. Peace be upon Israel!" 
Psalms129:1 A Song of Ascents. “Many times they have assailed me from my youth up,” Let Israel now say," 
Psalms129:2 “Many times they have assailed me from my youth up; Yet they have not prevailed against me. 
Psalms129:3 The plowers plowed upon my back; They lengthened their furrows.” 
Psalms129:4 Yahweh is righteous; He has cut up the cords of the wicked. 
Psalms129:5 Let all who hate Zion Be put to shame and turned backward; 
Psalms129:6 Let them be like grass upon the rooftops, Which dries up before it grows up;" 
Psalms129:7 With which the reaper does not fill his hand, Nor the binder of sheaves the fold of his garment;" 
Psalms129:8 And those who pass by will not say, “The blessing of Yahweh be upon you; We bless you in the name of Yahweh.”" 
Psalms130:1 A Song of Ascents. Out of the depths I called to You, O Yahweh." 
Psalms130:2 O Lord, hear my voice! Let Your ears be attentive To the voice of my supplications." 
Psalms130:3 If You should keep iniquities, O Yah, O Lord, who could stand?" 
Psalms130:4 But with You there is forgiveness, That You may be feared." 
Psalms130:5 I hope for Yahweh, my soul does hope, And for His word do I wait." 
Psalms130:6 My soul waits for the Lord More than the watchmen for the morning, The watchmen for the morning." 
Psalms130:7 O Israel, wait for Yahweh; For with Yahweh there is lovingkindness, And with Him is abundant redemption." 
Psalms130:8 And it is He who will redeem Israel From all his iniquities. 
Psalms131:1 A Song of Ascents. Of David. O Yahweh, my heart is not exalted, and my eyes are not raised high; And I do not involve myself in great matters, Or in matters too marvelous for me." 
Psalms131:2 Surely I have soothed and quieted my soul, Like a weaned child with his mother, Like a weaned child is my soul within me." 
Psalms131:3 O Israel, wait for Yahweh From now until forever." 
Psalms132:1 A Song of Ascents. Remember, O Yahweh, on David’s behalf, All his affliction;" 
Psalms132:2 How he swore to Yahweh And vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob," 
Psalms132:3 “Surely I will not come into my house, Nor lie in the comfort of my bed;" 
Psalms132:4 I will not give sleep to my eyes Or slumber to my eyelids," 
Psalms132:5 Until I find a place for Yahweh, A dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob.”" 
Psalms132:6 Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah, We found it in the fields of Jaar." 
Psalms132:7 Let us come into His dwelling place; Let us worship at the footstool of His feet. 
Psalms132:8 Arise, O Yahweh, to Your resting place, You and the ark of Your strength." 
Psalms132:9 Let Your priests be clothed with righteousness, And let Your holy ones sing for joy." 
Psalms132:10 For the sake of David Your servant, Do not turn away the face of Your anointed." 
Psalms132:11 Yahweh has sworn to David A truth from which He will not turn back: “Of the fruit of your body I will set upon your throne. 
Psalms132:12 If your sons keep My covenant And My testimony which I will teach them, Their sons also shall sit upon your throne forever.”" 
Psalms132:13 For Yahweh has chosen Zion; He has desired it for His habitation. 
Psalms132:14 “This is My resting place forever; Here I will inhabit, for I have desired it." 
Psalms132:15 I will abundantly bless her provision; I will satisfy her needy with bread. 
Psalms132:16 Her priests also I will clothe with salvation, And her holy ones will sing loudly for joy." 
Psalms132:17 There I will cause the horn of David to spring up; I have prepared a lamp for Mine anointed. 
Psalms132:18 His enemies I will clothe with shame, But upon him, his crown shall blossom.”" 
Psalms133:1 A Song of Ascents. Of David. Behold, how good and how pleasant it is For brothers to dwell together in unity!" 
Psalms133:2 It is like the good oil upon the head, Coming down upon the beard, Aaron’s beard, Coming down upon the edge of his robes." 
Psalms133:3 It is like the dew of Hermon Coming down upon the mountains of Zion; For there, Yahweh commanded the blessing—life forever." 
Psalms134:1 A Song of Ascents. Behold, bless Yahweh, all you slaves of Yahweh, Who stand in the house of Yahweh by night!" 
Psalms134:2 Lift up your hands to the sanctuary And bless Yahweh. 
Psalms134:3 May Yahweh bless you from Zion, Who made heaven and earth." 
Psalms135:1 Praise Yah! Praise the name of Yahweh; Praise Him, O slaves of Yahweh," 
Psalms135:2 You who stand in the house of Yahweh, In the courts of the house of our God!" 
Psalms135:3 Praise Yah, for Yahweh is good; Sing praises to His name, for it is lovely." 
Psalms135:4 For Yah has chosen Jacob for Himself, Israel for His treasured possession." 
Psalms135:5 For I know that Yahweh is great And that our Lord is greater than all gods. 
Psalms135:6 Whatever Yahweh pleases, He does, In heaven and on earth, in the seas and in all deeps." 
Psalms135:7 The One who causes the clouds to ascend from the end of the earth; Who makes lightnings for the rain, Who brings forth the wind from His storehouses." 
Psalms135:8 He struck the firstborn of Egypt, From man to beast." 
Psalms135:9 He sent signs and wonders into your midst, O Egypt, Amongst Pharaoh and all his slaves." 
Psalms135:10 He struck many nations And slew mighty kings," 
Psalms135:11 Sihon, king of the Amorites, And Og, king of Bashan, And all the kingdoms of Canaan;" 
Psalms135:12 And He gave their land as an inheritance, An inheritance to Israel His people." 
Psalms135:13 O Yahweh, Your name is everlasting, O Yahweh, Your remembrance is from generation to generation." 
Psalms135:14 For Yahweh will render justice for His people And will give comfort to His slaves. 
Psalms135:15 The idols of the nations are silver and gold, The work of man’s hands." 
Psalms135:16 They have mouths, but they do not speak; They have eyes, but they do not see;" 
Psalms135:17 They have ears, but they do not hear, Surely, there is not any breath in their mouths." 
Psalms135:18 Those who make them will be like them, All who trust in them." 
Psalms135:19 O house of Israel, bless Yahweh; O house of Aaron, bless Yahweh;" 
Psalms135:20 O house of Levi, bless Yahweh; You who fear Yahweh, bless Yahweh." 
Psalms135:21 Blessed be Yahweh from Zion, Who dwells in Jerusalem. Praise Yah!" 
Psalms136:1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for He is good, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms136:2 Give thanks to the God of gods, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms136:3 Give thanks to the Lord of lords, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms136:4 To Him who alone does great wonders, For His lovingkindness endures forever;" 
Psalms136:5 To Him who made the heavens with skill, For His lovingkindness endures forever;" 
Psalms136:6 To Him who spread out the earth above the waters, For His lovingkindness endures forever;" 
Psalms136:7 To Him who made the great lights, For His lovingkindness endures forever:" 
Psalms136:8 The sun to rule by day, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:9 The moon and stars to rule by night, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms136:10 To Him who struck the Egyptians through their firstborn, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:11 Then brought Israel out from their midst, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:12 With a strong hand and an outstretched arm, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms136:13 To Him who divided the Red Sea in two, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:14 And made Israel pass through the midst of it, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:15 But He overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms136:16 To Him who led His people through the wilderness, For His lovingkindness endures forever;" 
Psalms136:17 To Him who struck great kings, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:18 And killed mighty kings, For His lovingkindness endures forever:" 
Psalms136:19 Sihon, king of the Amorites, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:20 And Og, king of Bashan, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:21 And gave their land as an inheritance, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:22 Even an inheritance to Israel His servant, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms136:23 Who remembered us in our low estate, For His lovingkindness endures forever," 
Psalms136:24 And has snatched us from our adversaries, For His lovingkindness endures forever;" 
Psalms136:25 Who gives food to all flesh, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms136:26 Give thanks to the God of heaven, For His lovingkindness endures forever." 
Psalms137:1 By the rivers of Babylon, There we sat and also wept, When we remembered Zion." 
Psalms137:2 Upon the willows in the midst of it We hung our lyres. 
Psalms137:3 For there our captors asked us about the words of a song, And our tormentors asked joyfully, saying, “Sing for us one of the songs of Zion.”" 
Psalms137:4 How can we sing a song of Yahweh In a foreign land? 
Psalms137:5 If I forget you, O Jerusalem, May my right hand forget her skill." 
Psalms137:6 May my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth If I do not remember you, If I do not exalt Jerusalem Above my chief joy." 
Psalms137:7 Remember, O Yahweh, against the sons of Edom The day of Jerusalem, Who said, “Tear it down! Tear it down To its very foundation.”" 
Psalms137:8 O daughter of Babylon, you devastated one, How blessed will be the one who repays you With the recompense with which you have recompensed us." 
Psalms137:9 How blessed will be the one who seizes and dashes your infants Against the cliff. 
Psalms138:1 Of David. I will give You thanks with all my heart; I will sing praises to You before the gods. 
Psalms138:2 I will worship toward Your holy temple And give thanks to Your name for Your lovingkindness and Your truth; For You have magnified Your word according to all Your name. 
Psalms138:3 On the day I called, You answered me; You made me bold with strength in my soul." 
Psalms138:4 All the kings of the earth, O Yahweh, will give You thanks, When they hear the words of Your mouth." 
Psalms138:5 And they will sing of the ways of Yahweh, For great is the glory of Yahweh." 
Psalms138:6 For Yahweh is high, Yet He sees the lowly, But the one who exalts himself He knows from afar." 
Psalms138:7 Though I walk in the midst of distress, You will revive me; You will stretch forth Your hand against the wrath of my enemies, And Your right hand will save me." 
Psalms138:8 Yahweh will accomplish what concerns me; O Yahweh, Your lovingkindness endures forever; Do not fail the works of Your hands." 
Psalms139:1 For the choir director. Of David. A Psalm. O Yahweh, You have searched me and known me." 
Psalms139:2 You know when I sit down and when I rise up; You understand my thought from afar. 
Psalms139:3 You scrutinize my path and my lying down, And are intimately acquainted with all my ways." 
Psalms139:4 Even before there is a word on my tongue, Behold, O Yahweh, You know it all." 
Psalms139:5 You have enclosed me behind and before, And You have put Your hand upon me." 
Psalms139:6 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; It is too high, I cannot attain to it." 
Psalms139:7 Where can I go from Your Spirit? Or where can I flee from Your presence? 
Psalms139:8 If I ascend to heaven, You are there; If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, You are there." 
Psalms139:9 If I lift up the wings of the dawn, If I dwell in the remotest part of the sea," 
Psalms139:10 Even there Your hand will lead me, And Your right hand will lay hold of me." 
Psalms139:11 If I say, “Surely the darkness will bruise me, And the light around me will be night,”" 
Psalms139:12 Even the darkness is not too dark for You, And the night is as bright as the day. Darkness and light are alike to You." 
Psalms139:13 For You formed my inward parts; You wove me in my mother’s womb. 
Psalms139:14 I will give thanks to You, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; Wonderful are Your works, And my soul knows it very well." 
Psalms139:15 My frame was not hidden from You, When I was made in secret, And intricately woven in the depths of the earth;" 
Psalms139:16 Your eyes have seen my unshaped substance; And in Your book all of them were written The days that were formed for me, When as yet there was not one of them." 
Psalms139:17 How precious are Your thoughts to me, O God! How vast is the sum of them!" 
Psalms139:18 If I should count them, they would outnumber the sand. When I awake, I am still with You." 
Psalms139:19 Oh that You would slay the wicked, O God! O men of bloodshed, depart from me." 
Psalms139:20 For they speak against You wickedly, And Your enemies take Your name in vain." 
Psalms139:21 Do I not hate those who hate You, O Yahweh? And do I not revile those who rise up against You?" 
Psalms139:22 I hate them with the utmost hatred; They have become my enemies. 
Psalms139:23 Search me, O God, and know my heart; Try me and know my anxious thoughts;" 
Psalms139:24 And see if there be any hurtful way in me, And lead me in the everlasting way." 
Psalms140:1 For the choir director. A Psalm of David. Rescue me, O Yahweh, from evil men; Guard me from violent men" 
Psalms140:2 Who think up evil things in their hearts; They continually stir up wars. 
Psalms140:3 They sharpen their tongues as a serpent; Poison of an asp is under their lips. Selah. 
Psalms140:4 Keep me, O Yahweh, from the hands of the wicked; Guard me from violent men Who give thought to trip up my steps." 
Psalms140:5 The proud have hidden a trap for me, and cords; They have spread a net by the wayside; They have set snares for me. Selah." 
Psalms140:6 I said to Yahweh, “You are my God; Give ear, O Yahweh, to the voice of my supplications." 
Psalms140:7 O Yahweh, O Lord, the strength of my salvation, You have covered my head in the day of battle." 
Psalms140:8 Do not grant, O Yahweh, the desires of the wicked; Do not promote his evil scheme, that they not be exalted. Selah." 
Psalms140:9 “As for the head of those who surround me, May the trouble from their lips cover them." 
Psalms140:10 May burning coals be shaken out upon them; May He cause them to fall into the fire, Into bottomless pits from which they can never rise." 
Psalms140:11 May a slanderer not be established in the earth; May evil hunt the violent man speedily.” 
Psalms140:12 I know that Yahweh will maintain the cause for the afflicted And judgment for the needy. 
Psalms140:13 Surely the righteous will give thanks to Your name; The upright will abide in Your presence. 
Psalms141:1 A Psalm of David. O Yahweh, I call upon You; hasten to me! Give ear to my voice when I call to You!" 
Psalms141:2 May my prayer be established as incense before You; The lifting up of my hands as the evening offering. 
Psalms141:3 Set a guard, O Yahweh, over my mouth; Keep watch over the door of my lips." 
Psalms141:4 Do not incline my heart to any evil thing, To practice deeds in wickedness With men who are workers of iniquity; And do not let me eat of their delicacies." 
Psalms141:5 Let the righteous smite me in lovingkindness and reprove me; It is oil upon the head; Let not my head refuse it, For still my prayer is against their evil deeds." 
Psalms141:6 Their judges are thrown down by the sides of the cliff, And they hear my words, for they are pleasant." 
Psalms141:7 As when one plows and splits open the earth, Our bones have been scattered at the mouth of Sheol." 
Psalms141:8 For my eyes are toward You, O Yahweh, O Lord; In You I take refuge; do not pour out my soul to death." 
Psalms141:9 Keep me from the jaws of the trap which they have set for me, And from the snares of workers of iniquity." 
Psalms141:10 Let the wicked fall into their own nets, As for myself—meanwhile, I am passing by." 
Psalms142:1 A Maskil of David. When he was in the cave. A Prayer. With my voice to Yahweh, I cry aloud; With my voice to Yahweh, I make supplication." 
Psalms142:2 I pour out my complaint before Him; I declare my distress before Him. 
Psalms142:3 When my spirit was faint within me, You knew my path. In the way where I walk They have hidden a trap for me." 
Psalms142:4 Look to the right and see; That there is no one who regards me; A way of escape has been destroyed from me; No one cares for my soul. 
Psalms142:5 I cried out to You, O Yahweh; I said, “You are my refuge, My portion in the land of the living." 
Psalms142:6 Give heed to my cry of lamentation, For I am brought very low; Deliver me from my persecutors, For they are too strong for me." 
Psalms142:7 Bring my soul out of prison, To give thanks to Your name; The righteous will encircle me, For You will deal bountifully with me.”" 
Psalms143:1 A Psalm of David. O Yahweh, hear my prayer, Give ear to my supplications! Answer me in Your faithfulness, in Your righteousness!" 
Psalms143:2 And do not enter into judgment with Your slave, For no one living is righteous in Your sight." 
Psalms143:3 For the enemy has pursued my soul; He has crushed my life to the ground; He has made me inhabit dark places, like those who have long been dead." 
Psalms143:4 Therefore my spirit was faint within me; My heart was appalled within me. 
Psalms143:5 I remember the days of old; I meditate on all You have done; I muse on the work of Your hands. 
Psalms143:6 I stretch out my hands to You; My soul reaches for You like a weary land. Selah. 
Psalms143:7 Answer me quickly, O Yahweh, my spirit wastes away; Do not hide Your face from me, Or I will become like those who go down to the pit." 
Psalms143:8 Cause me to hear Your lovingkindness in the morning; For I trust in You; Cause me to know the way in which I should walk; For to You I lift up my soul. 
Psalms143:9 Deliver me from my enemies, O Yahweh, I have concealed myself in You." 
Psalms143:10 Teach me to do Your will, For You are my God; Let Your good Spirit lead me on level ground." 
Psalms143:11 For the sake of Your name, O Yahweh, revive me. In Your righteousness bring my soul out of distress." 
Psalms143:12 And in Your lovingkindness, cut off my enemies And cause all those who assail my soul to perish, For I am Your slave." 
Psalms144:1 Of David. Blessed be Yahweh, my rock, Who trains my hands for war, My fingers for battle;" 
Psalms144:2 My lovingkindness and my fortress, My stronghold and my deliverer, My shield and He in whom I take refuge, Who subdues my people under me." 
Psalms144:3 O Yahweh, what is man, that You know him? Or the son of man, that You think of him?" 
Psalms144:4 Man is like a breath; His days are like a passing shadow. 
Psalms144:5 O Yahweh, bow Your heavens, and come down; Touch the mountains, that they may smoke." 
Psalms144:6 Flash forth lightning and scatter them; Send out Your arrows and confuse them. 
Psalms144:7 Send forth Your hand from on high; Set me free and deliver me out of many waters, Out of the hand of foreigners" 
Psalms144:8 Whose mouth speaks worthlessness, And whose right hand is a right hand of lying." 
Psalms144:9 O God, I will sing a new song to You; Upon a harp of ten strings I will sing praises to You," 
Psalms144:10 Who gives salvation to kings, Who sets David His servant free from the evil sword." 
Psalms144:11 Set me free and deliver me out of the hand of the sons of a foreigner, Whose mouth speaks worthlessness And whose right hand is a right hand of lying." 
Psalms144:12 That our sons would be as grown‑up plants in their youth, And our daughters as corner pillars fashioned as for a palace;" 
Psalms144:13 That our granaries would be full, furnishing every kind of produce, And our flocks would bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields outside;" 
Psalms144:14 That our cattle would bear Without mishap and without loss, And without outcry in our streets!" 
Psalms144:15 How blessed are the people for whom this is so; How blessed are the people for whom God is Yahweh! 
Psalms145:1 A Praise of David. I will exalt You, my God, O King, And I will bless Your name forever and ever." 
Psalms145:2 Every day I will bless You, And I will praise Your name forever and ever." 
Psalms145:3 Great is Yahweh, and highly to be praised, And His greatness is unsearchable." 
Psalms145:4 One generation shall laud Your works to another, And shall declare Your mighty deeds." 
Psalms145:5 On the glorious splendor of Your majesty And on the words of Your wondrous deeds, I will muse." 
Psalms145:6 Men shall speak of the strength of Your fearsome acts, And I will recount Your greatness." 
Psalms145:7 They shall pour forth the memory of Your abundant goodness And will shout joyfully of Your righteousness. 
Psalms145:8 Yahweh is gracious and compassionate; Slow to anger and great in lovingkindness. 
Psalms145:9 Yahweh is good to all, And His compassions are over all His works." 
Psalms145:10 All Your works, O Yahweh, shall give thanks to You, And Your holy ones shall bless You." 
Psalms145:11 They shall speak of the glory of Your kingdom And talk of Your might; 
Psalms145:12 To make known to the sons of men His mighty deeds And the glory of the majesty of His kingdom. 
Psalms145:13 Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, And Your dominion endures from generation to every generation." 
Psalms145:14 Yahweh sustains all who fall And raises up all who are bowed down. 
Psalms145:15 The eyes of all wait on You, And You give them their food in due time." 
Psalms145:16 You open Your hand And satisfy the desire of every living thing. 
Psalms145:17 Yahweh is righteous in all His ways And holy in all His works. 
Psalms145:18 Yahweh is near to all who call upon Him, To all who call upon Him in truth." 
Psalms145:19 He will work out the desire of those who fear Him; He will hear their cry for help and He will save them. 
Psalms145:20 Yahweh keeps all who love Him, But all the wicked He will destroy." 
Psalms145:21 My mouth will speak the praise of Yahweh, And all flesh will bless His holy name forever and ever." 
Psalms146:1 Praise Yah! Praise Yahweh, O my soul!" 
Psalms146:2 I will praise Yahweh throughout my life; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. 
Psalms146:3 Do not trust in nobles, In merely a son of man, in whom there is no salvation." 
Psalms146:4 His spirit departs, he returns to the earth; In that very day his plans perish." 
Psalms146:5 How blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, Whose hope is in Yahweh his God," 
Psalms146:6 Who made heaven and earth, The sea and all that is in them; Who keeps truth forever;" 
Psalms146:7 Who does justice for the oppressed; Who gives food to the hungry. Yahweh sets the prisoners free. 
Psalms146:8 Yahweh opens the eyes of the blind; Yahweh raises up those who are bowed down; Yahweh loves the righteous; 
Psalms146:9 Yahweh keeps the sojourners; He helps up the orphan and the widow, But He bends the way of the wicked." 
Psalms146:10 Yahweh will reign forever, Your God, O Zion, from generation to generation. Praise Yah!" 
Psalms147:1 Praise Yah! For it is good to sing praises to our God; For it is pleasant and praise is becoming. 
Psalms147:2 Yahweh builds up Jerusalem; He gathers the outcasts of Israel. 
Psalms147:3 He is the One who heals the brokenhearted And who binds up their wounds," 
Psalms147:4 Who counts the number of the stars; He gives names to all of them. 
Psalms147:5 Great is our Lord and abundant in power; His discernment is infinite. 
Psalms147:6 Yahweh helps up the afflicted; He brings down the wicked to the ground. 
Psalms147:7 Sing to Yahweh with thanksgiving; Sing praises to our God on the lyre. 
Psalms147:8 He is the One who covers the heavens with clouds, The One who provides rain for the earth, The One who makes grass to sprout on the mountains," 
Psalms147:9 Who gives to the animal its food, And to the young ravens which call out." 
Psalms147:10 He does not delight in the might of the horse; He does not take pleasure in the legs of a man. 
Psalms147:11 Yahweh is pleased with those who fear Him, Those who wait for His lovingkindness." 
Psalms147:12 Laud Yahweh, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion!" 
Psalms147:13 For He strengthened the bars of your gates; He blessed your sons within you. 
Psalms147:14 He is the One who sets peace in your borders, He satisfies you with the finest of the wheat," 
Psalms147:15 The One who sends forth His command to the earth; His word runs very swiftly," 
Psalms147:16 The One who gives snow like wool; He scatters the frost like ashes," 
Psalms147:17 Who casts forth His ice as fragments; Who can stand before His cold? 
Psalms147:18 He sends forth His word and melts them; He causes His wind to blow and so the waters flow," 
Psalms147:19 Who declares His words to Jacob, His statutes and His judgments to Israel." 
Psalms147:20 He has not done so with any nation; So as for His judgments, they have not known them. Praise Yah!" 
Psalms148:1 Praise Yah! Praise Yahweh from the heavens; Praise Him in the heights! 
Psalms148:2 Praise Him, all His angels; Praise Him, all His hosts!" 
Psalms148:3 Praise Him, sun and moon; Praise Him, all stars of light!" 
Psalms148:4 Praise Him, heavens of heavens, And the waters that are above the heavens!" 
Psalms148:5 Let them praise the name of Yahweh, For He commanded and they were created." 
Psalms148:6 He caused them to stand forever and ever; He gave a statute and it will never pass away. 
Psalms148:7 Praise Yahweh from the earth, Sea monsters and all deeps;" 
Psalms148:8 Fire and hail, snow and clouds; Stormy wind, doing His word;" 
Psalms148:9 Mountains and all hills; Fruit trees and all cedars; 
Psalms148:10 Beasts and all cattle; Creeping things and winged bird; 
Psalms148:11 Kings of the earth and all peoples; Princes and all judges of the earth; 
Psalms148:12 Both choice men as well as virgins; The old with the young. 
Psalms148:13 Let them praise the name of Yahweh, For His name alone is set on high; His splendor is above earth and heaven." 
Psalms148:14 And He has raised up a horn for His people, Praise for all His holy ones; For the sons of Israel, a people near to Him. Praise Yah!" 
Psalms149:1 Praise Yah! Sing to Yahweh a new song, His praise in the assembly of the holy ones." 
Psalms149:2 Let Israel be glad in his Maker; Let the sons of Zion rejoice in their King. 
Psalms149:3 Let them praise His name with dancing; With tambourine and lyre let them sing praises to Him. 
Psalms149:4 For Yahweh takes pleasure in His people; He will beautify the afflicted ones with salvation. 
Psalms149:5 Let the holy ones exult in glory; Let them sing for joy on their beds. 
Psalms149:6 Let the exaltations of God be in their throats, And a two‑edged sword in their hand," 
Psalms149:7 To execute vengeance on the nations And punishments on the peoples," 
Psalms149:8 To bind their kings with chains And their honored men with fetters of iron," 
Psalms149:9 To execute on them the judgment written; This is the majesty of all His holy ones. Praise Yah! 
Psalms150:1 Praise Yah! Praise God in His sanctuary; Praise Him in His mighty expanse. 
Psalms150:2 Praise Him for His mighty deeds; Praise Him according to the abundance of His greatness. 
Psalms150:3 Praise Him with trumpet blast; Praise Him with harp and lyre. 
Psalms150:4 Praise Him with tambourine and dancing; Praise Him with stringed instruments and pipe. 
Psalms150:5 Praise Him with resounding cymbals; Praise Him with clashing cymbals. 
Psalms150:6 Let everything that has breath praise Yah. Praise Yah! 
Proverbs1:1 The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel:" 
Proverbs1:2 To know wisdom and discipline, To understand the sayings of understanding," 
Proverbs1:3 To receive discipline that leads to insight, Righteousness, justice, and equity," 
Proverbs1:4 To give prudence to the simple, To the youth knowledge and discretion;" 
Proverbs1:5 Let the wise man hear and increase in learning, And a man of understanding will acquire guidance," 
Proverbs1:6 To understand a proverb and an enigma, The words of the wise and their riddles." 
Proverbs1:7 The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of knowledge; Ignorant fools despise wisdom and discipline. 
Proverbs1:8 Hear, my son, your father’s discipline And do not abandon your mother’s instruction;" 
Proverbs1:9 For they are a garland of grace for your head And ornaments about your neck. 
Proverbs1:10 My son, if sinners entice you, Do not be willing." 
Proverbs1:11 If they say, “Come with us, Let us lie in wait for blood, Let us ambush the innocent without cause;" 
Proverbs1:12 Let us swallow them alive like Sheol, And whole, as those who go down to the pit;" 
Proverbs1:13 We will find all kinds of precious wealth, We will fill our houses with spoil;" 
Proverbs1:14 Cast in your lot with us, We shall all have one purse,”" 
Proverbs1:15 My son, do not walk in the way with them. Withhold your feet from their pathway," 
Proverbs1:16 For their feet run to evil And they hasten to shed blood. 
Proverbs1:17 For it is no use that a net is spread In the sight of any bird; 
Proverbs1:18 But they lie in wait for their own blood; They ambush their own lives. 
Proverbs1:19 So are the paths of everyone who is greedy for gain; It takes away the life of its possessors. 
Proverbs1:20 Wisdom shouts in the street, She gives forth her voice in the square;" 
Proverbs1:21 At the head of the noisy streets she calls out; At the entrance of the gates in the city she utters her sayings: 
Proverbs1:22 “How long, O simple ones, will you love simplicity? And scoffers delight in scoffing And fools hate knowledge?" 
Proverbs1:23 Turn to my reproof, Behold, I will pour out my spirit on you; I will make my words known to you." 
Proverbs1:24 Because I called and you refused, I stretched out my hand and no one paid attention;" 
Proverbs1:25 And you neglected all my counsel And were not willing to accept my reproof; 
Proverbs1:26 I will also laugh at your disaster; I will mock when your dread comes," 
Proverbs1:27 When your dread comes like a storm And your disaster comes like a whirlwind, When distress and anguish come upon you." 
Proverbs1:28 Then they will call on me, but I will not answer; They will seek me earnestly but they will not find me," 
Proverbs1:29 Because they hated knowledge And did not choose the fear of Yahweh. 
Proverbs1:30 They were not willing to accept my counsel, They spurned all my reproof." 
Proverbs1:31 So they shall eat of the fruit of their way And be satisfied with their own devices. 
Proverbs1:32 For the turning away of the simple will kill them, And the complacency of fools will destroy them." 
Proverbs1:33 But he who listens to me shall dwell securely And will be at ease from the dread of evil.” 
Proverbs2:1 My son, if you will receive my words And treasure my commandments within you," 
Proverbs2:2 To make your ear pay attention to wisdom, Incline your heart to discernment;" 
Proverbs2:3 For if you call out for understanding, Give your voice for discernment;" 
Proverbs2:4 If you seek her as silver And search for her as for hidden treasures; 
Proverbs2:5 Then you will understand the fear of Yahweh And find the knowledge of God. 
Proverbs2:6 For Yahweh gives wisdom; From His mouth come knowledge and discernment. 
Proverbs2:7 He stores up sound wisdom for the upright, A shield to those who walk in integrity," 
Proverbs2:8 To guard the paths of justice, And He keeps the way of His holy ones." 
Proverbs2:9 Then you will understand righteousness and justice And equity—every good track. 
Proverbs2:10 For wisdom will enter your heart And knowledge will be pleasant to your soul; 
Proverbs2:11 Discretion will keep you, Discernment will guard you," 
Proverbs2:12 To deliver you from the way of evil, From the man who speaks perverse things;" 
Proverbs2:13 From those who forsake the paths of uprightness To walk in the ways of darkness; 
Proverbs2:14 Who are glad to do evil And they rejoice in the perversity of evil; 
Proverbs2:15 Whose paths are crooked, And who are devious in their tracks;" 
Proverbs2:16 To deliver you from the strange woman, From the foreign woman who flatters with her words;" 
Proverbs2:17 Who forsakes the close companion of her youth And forgets the covenant of her God; 
Proverbs2:18 For her house sinks down to death And her tracks descend to the dead; 
Proverbs2:19 All who go to her will not return, And they will not reach the paths of life." 
Proverbs2:20 So that you will walk in the way of good men And keep to the paths of the righteous. 
Proverbs2:21 For the upright will dwell in the land And the blameless will remain in it; 
Proverbs2:22 But the wicked will be cut off from the land And the treacherous will be torn away from it. 
Proverbs3:1 My son, do not forget my law, But let your heart guard my commandments;" 
Proverbs3:2 For length of days and years of life And peace they will add to you. 
Proverbs3:3 Do not let lovingkindness and truth forsake you; Bind them around your neck, Write them on the tablet of your heart." 
Proverbs3:4 So you will find favor and good insight In the eyes of God and man. 
Proverbs3:5 Trust in Yahweh with all your heart And do not lean on your own understanding. 
Proverbs3:6 In all your ways acknowledge Him, And He will make your paths straight." 
Proverbs3:7 Do not be wise in your own eyes; Fear Yahweh and turn away from evil. 
Proverbs3:8 It will be healing to your body And refreshment to your bones. 
Proverbs3:9 Honor Yahweh from your wealth And from the first of all your produce; 
Proverbs3:10 So your barns will be filled with plenty And your vats will burst with new wine. 
Proverbs3:11 My son, do not reject the discipline of Yahweh Or loathe His reproof," 
Proverbs3:12 For whom Yahweh loves He reproves, Even as a father reproves the son in whom he delights." 
Proverbs3:13 How blessed is the man who finds wisdom And the man who obtains discernment. 
Proverbs3:14 For her profit is better than the profit of silver And her produce better than fine gold. 
Proverbs3:15 She is more precious than pearls; And nothing you desire compares with her. 
Proverbs3:16 Length of days is in her right hand; In her left hand are riches and glory. 
Proverbs3:17 Her ways are pleasant ways And all her pathways are peace. 
Proverbs3:18 She is a tree of life to those who seize her, And all those who hold her fast are blessed." 
Proverbs3:19 Yahweh by wisdom founded the earth, By discernment He established the heavens." 
Proverbs3:20 By His knowledge the deeps were split up And the skies drip with dew. 
Proverbs3:21 My son, let them not deviate from your eyes; Guard sound wisdom and discretion," 
Proverbs3:22 So they will be life for your soul And grace for your neck. 
Proverbs3:23 Then you will walk in your way securely And your foot will not stumble. 
Proverbs3:24 When you lie down, you will not be in dread; You will lie down, and your sleep will be pleasant." 
Proverbs3:25 Do not be afraid of sudden dread Nor of the storm of the wicked when it comes; 
Proverbs3:26 For Yahweh will be your confidence And will keep your foot from being caught. 
Proverbs3:27 Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, When it is in your hand to do it." 
Proverbs3:28 Do not say to your neighbor, “Go, and come back, And tomorrow I will give it,” When it is there with you." 
Proverbs3:29 Do not devise harm against your neighbor, While he lives securely beside you." 
Proverbs3:30 Do not contend with a man without cause, If he has dealt you no harm." 
Proverbs3:31 Do not envy a man of violence And do not choose any of his ways. 
Proverbs3:32 For the devious one is an abomination to Yahweh; But His secret council is with the upright. 
Proverbs3:33 The curse of Yahweh is on the house of the wicked one, But He blesses the abode of the righteous." 
Proverbs3:34 Though He scoffs at the scoffers, Yet He gives grace to the humble." 
Proverbs3:35 The wise will inherit glory, But fools raise up disgrace." 
Proverbs4:1 Hear, O sons, the discipline of a father, And pay attention that you may know understanding," 
Proverbs4:2 For I give you sound learning; Do not forsake my instruction. 
Proverbs4:3 When I was a son to my father, Tender and the only son before my mother," 
Proverbs4:4 Then he instructed me and said to me, “Let your heart hold fast my words; Keep my commandments and live;" 
Proverbs4:5 Acquire wisdom! Acquire understanding! Do not forget and do not turn away from the sayings of my mouth. 
Proverbs4:6 Do not forsake her, and she will keep you; Love her, and she will guard you." 
Proverbs4:7 The beginning of wisdom is: Acquire wisdom; And with all your acquiring, acquire understanding." 
Proverbs4:8 Prize her, and she will exalt you; She will honor you if you embrace her." 
Proverbs4:9 She will give for your head a garland of grace; She will present you with a crown of beauty.” 
Proverbs4:10 Hear, my son, and receive my sayings And the years of your life will be many." 
Proverbs4:11 I have instructed you in the way of wisdom; I have led you in upright tracks. 
Proverbs4:12 When you walk, your steps will not be impeded; And if you run, you will not stumble." 
Proverbs4:13 Seize discipline; do not let go. Guard her, for she is your life." 
Proverbs4:14 Do not enter the path of wicked men And do not step into the way of evil men. 
Proverbs4:15 Avoid it, do not pass by it; Stray from it and pass on." 
Proverbs4:16 For they do not sleep unless they do evil; And they are robbed of sleep unless they make someone stumble. 
Proverbs4:17 For they eat the bread of wickedness And drink the wine of violence. 
Proverbs4:18 But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, That shines brighter and brighter until the fullness of day." 
Proverbs4:19 The way of the wicked is like thick darkness; They do not know over what they stumble. 
Proverbs4:20 My son, pay attention to my words; Incline your ear to my sayings." 
Proverbs4:21 Do not let them deviate from your eyes; Keep them in the midst of your heart. 
Proverbs4:22 For they are life to those who find them And healing to all his flesh. 
Proverbs4:23 Guard your heart with all diligence, For from it flow the springs of life." 
Proverbs4:24 Put away from you a perverse mouth And put devious lips far from you. 
Proverbs4:25 Let your eyes look directly ahead And even let your eyelids be fixed straight in front of you. 
Proverbs4:26 Watch the track of your feet And all your ways will be established. 
Proverbs4:27 Do not turn to the right nor to the left; Turn your foot from evil. 
Proverbs5:1 My son, pay attention to my wisdom, Incline your ear to my discernment;" 
Proverbs5:2 That you may keep discretion And that your lips may guard knowledge. 
Proverbs5:3 For the lips of a strange woman drip honey And smoother than oil is her speech; 
Proverbs5:4 But her end is bitter as wormwood, Sharp as a two‑edged sword." 
Proverbs5:5 Her feet go down to death, Her steps take hold of Sheol," 
Proverbs5:6 Lest she watch the path of life; Her tracks are unstable, she does not know it." 
Proverbs5:7 So now, my sons, listen to me And do not turn away from the words of my mouth." 
Proverbs5:8 Keep your way far from her And do not go near the door of her house," 
Proverbs5:9 Lest you give your splendor to others And your years to the cruel one; 
Proverbs5:10 Lest strangers be satisfied by your strength And by your painful labor, those in the house of a foreigner;" 
Proverbs5:11 And you groan at your end, When your flesh and your body are consumed;" 
Proverbs5:12 And you say, “How I have hated discipline! And my heart spurned reproof!" 
Proverbs5:13 I have not listened to the voice of my instructors, And I have not inclined my ear to my teachers!" 
Proverbs5:14 I was almost in utter ruin In the midst of the assembly and congregation.” 
Proverbs5:15 Drink water from your own cistern And fresh water from your own well. 
Proverbs5:16 Should your springs be dispersed abroad, Streams of water in the streets?" 
Proverbs5:17 Let them be for you alone, And not for strangers with you." 
Proverbs5:18 Let your fountain be blessed, And be glad in the wife of your youth." 
Proverbs5:19 As a loving hind and a graceful doe, Let her breasts satisfy you at all times; Be intoxicated always with her love." 
Proverbs5:20 So why should you, my son, be intoxicated with a strange woman And embrace the bosom of a foreign woman?" 
Proverbs5:21 For the ways of a man are before the eyes of Yahweh, And He watches all his tracks." 
Proverbs5:22 His own iniquities will capture him who is the wicked one, And with the cords of his sin he will be held fast." 
Proverbs5:23 He will die for lack of discipline, And in the abundance of his folly he will stumble in intoxication." 
Proverbs6:1 My son, if you have become a guarantor for your neighbor, Have struck your hands in pledge for a stranger," 
Proverbs6:2 If you have been snared with the words of your mouth, Have been caught with the words of your mouth," 
Proverbs6:3 Do this then, my son, and deliver yourself; Since you have come into the hand of your neighbor, Go, humble yourself, and badger your neighbor." 
Proverbs6:4 Give no sleep to your eyes, Nor slumber to your eyelids;" 
Proverbs6:5 Deliver yourself like a gazelle from the hunter’s hand And like a bird from the hand of the fowler. 
Proverbs6:6 Go to the ant, O sluggard, Observe her ways and be wise," 
Proverbs6:7 Which, having no chief, Officer or ruler," 
Proverbs6:8 Prepares her food in the summer And gathers her provision in the harvest. 
Proverbs6:9 How long will you lie down, O sluggard? When will you arise from your sleep?" 
Proverbs6:10 “A little sleep, a little slumber, A little folding of the hands to rest”—" 
Proverbs6:11 Your poverty will come in like a vagabond And your want like an armed man. 
Proverbs6:12 A vile person, a wicked man, Is the one who walks with a perverse mouth," 
Proverbs6:13 Who winks with his eyes, who signals with his feet, Who points with his fingers;" 
Proverbs6:14 Who with perversity in his heart continually devises evil, Who spreads contentions." 
Proverbs6:15 Therefore his disaster will come suddenly; Instantly he will be broken and there will be no healing. 
Proverbs6:16 There are six things which Yahweh hates, Even seven which are an abomination to Him:" 
Proverbs6:17 Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, And hands that shed innocent blood," 
Proverbs6:18 A heart that devises wicked thoughts, Feet that hasten to run to evil," 
Proverbs6:19 A false witness who breathes out lies, And one who spreads strife among brothers." 
Proverbs6:20 My son, observe the commandment of your father And do not abandon the law of your mother;" 
Proverbs6:21 Bind them continually on your heart; Tie them around your neck. 
Proverbs6:22 When you walk about, they will lead you; When you sleep, they will keep watch over you; And when you awake, they will speak to you." 
Proverbs6:23 For the commandment is a lamp and the law is light; And reproofs for discipline are the way of life 
Proverbs6:24 To keep you from the evil woman, From the smooth tongue of the foreign woman." 
Proverbs6:25 Do not desire her beauty in your heart, Nor let her capture you with her eyelids." 
Proverbs6:26 For on account of a harlot one is reduced to a loaf of bread, And an adulteress hunts for the precious life." 
Proverbs6:27 Can a man take fire in his bosom And his clothes not be burned? 
Proverbs6:28 Or can a man walk on hot coals And his feet not be scorched? 
Proverbs6:29 So is the one who goes in to his neighbor’s wife; Whoever touches her will not go unpunished. 
Proverbs6:30 Men do not despise a thief if he steals To fill himself when he is hungry; 
Proverbs6:31 But when he is found, he must repay sevenfold; He must give all the substance of his house." 
Proverbs6:32 The one who commits adultery with a woman is lacking a heart of wisdom; He who would destroy his soul does it. 
Proverbs6:33 Wounds and disgrace he will find, And his reproach will not be blotted out." 
Proverbs6:34 For jealousy enrages a man, And he will not spare in the day of vengeance." 
Proverbs6:35 He will not accept any ransom, He will not be willing though you give many bribes." 
Proverbs7:1 My son, keep my words And treasure my commandments within you." 
Proverbs7:2 Keep my commandments and live, And my law as the apple of your eye." 
Proverbs7:3 Bind them on your fingers; Write them on the tablet of your heart. 
Proverbs7:4 Say to wisdom, “You are my sister,” And call understanding your intimate friend;" 
Proverbs7:5 In order to keep you from the strange woman, From the foreign woman who flatters with her words." 
Proverbs7:6 For at the window of my house I looked out through my lattice," 
Proverbs7:7 And I saw among the simple, And discerned among the sons A young man lacking a heart of wisdom," 
Proverbs7:8 Passing through the street near her corner; And he strides along the way to her house," 
Proverbs7:9 In the twilight, in the evening of that day, In the middle of the night, and in the thick darkness." 
Proverbs7:10 And behold, a woman comes to meet him, Dressed as a harlot and cunning of heart." 
Proverbs7:11 She is boisterous and rebellious, Her feet do not dwell at home;" 
Proverbs7:12 Stepping in the streets, stepping in the squares, And near every corner she lies in wait." 
Proverbs7:13 So she seizes him and kisses him And with a brazen face she says to him: 
Proverbs7:14 “The sacrifices of peace offerings are with me; Today I paid my vows. 
Proverbs7:15 Therefore I have come out to meet you, To seek your face earnestly, and I have found you." 
Proverbs7:16 I have spread my couch with coverings, With colored linens of Egypt." 
Proverbs7:17 I have sprinkled my bed With myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon." 
Proverbs7:18 Come, then, let us drink our fill as lovers until morning; Let us delight ourselves with the pleasures of love." 
Proverbs7:19 For my husband is not at home, He has gone on a journey far away;" 
Proverbs7:20 He took a bag of silver in his hand, On the day of the full moon he will come home.”" 
Proverbs7:21 With her abundant persuasions she entices him; With her flattering lips she drives him to herself. 
Proverbs7:22 He suddenly follows her As an ox goes to the slaughter, Or as one in fetters to the discipline of an ignorant fool," 
Proverbs7:23 Until an arrow pierces through his liver; As a bird hastens to the snare, And he does not know that it will cost him his soul." 
Proverbs7:24 So now, my sons, listen to me, And pay attention to the words of my mouth." 
Proverbs7:25 Do not let your heart go astray into her ways, Do not wander into her pathways." 
Proverbs7:26 For many are the slain whom she has cast down, And numerous are all those killed by her." 
Proverbs7:27 The ways to Sheol are in her house, Descending to the chambers of death." 
Proverbs8:1 Does not wisdom call, And discernment give forth her voice?" 
Proverbs8:2 At the top of the heights upon the way, Where the pathways meet, she takes her stand;" 
Proverbs8:3 Beside the gates, at the opening to the city, At the entrance of the doors, she makes a shout:" 
Proverbs8:4 “To you, O men, I call, And my voice is to the sons of men." 
Proverbs8:5 O simple ones, understand prudence; And, O fools, understand a heart of wisdom." 
Proverbs8:6 Listen, for I will speak noble things; And the opening of my lips will reveal upright things." 
Proverbs8:7 For my mouth will utter truth; And wickedness is an abomination to my lips. 
Proverbs8:8 All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; There is nothing twisted or crooked in them. 
Proverbs8:9 They are all straightforward to him who understands, And right to those who find knowledge." 
Proverbs8:10 Take my discipline and not silver, And knowledge rather than choicest fine gold." 
Proverbs8:11 For wisdom is better than pearls; And all desirable things cannot compare with her. 
Proverbs8:12 “I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, And I find knowledge and discretion." 
Proverbs8:13 The fear of Yahweh is to hate evil; Pride and arrogance and the evil way And the mouth of perverted words, I hate." 
Proverbs8:14 Counsel is mine and sound wisdom; I am understanding, might is mine." 
Proverbs8:15 By me kings reign, And rulers mark out righteousness." 
Proverbs8:16 By me princes rule, and nobles, All who judge rightly." 
Proverbs8:17 I love those who love me; And those who earnestly seek me will find me. 
Proverbs8:18 Riches and glory are with me, Enduring wealth and righteousness." 
Proverbs8:19 My fruit is better than fine gold, even pure gold, And my produce better than choice silver." 
Proverbs8:20 I walk in the path of righteousness, In the midst of the pathways of justice," 
Proverbs8:21 To give those who love me an inheritance of wealth, That I may fill their treasuries." 
Proverbs8:22 “Yahweh possessed me at the beginning of His way, Before His deeds of old." 
Proverbs8:23 From everlasting I was installed, From the beginning, from the earliest times of the earth." 
Proverbs8:24 When there were no depths I was brought forth, When there were no springs heavy with water." 
Proverbs8:25 Before the mountains were settled, Before the hills I was brought forth;" 
Proverbs8:26 While He had not yet made the earth and the fields outside, Nor the first dust of the world." 
Proverbs8:27 When He established the heavens, I was there, When He marked out a circle on the face of the deep," 
Proverbs8:28 When He made firm the skies above, When the springs of the deep became strong," 
Proverbs8:29 When He set for the sea its boundary So that the water would not pass over His command, When He marked out the foundations of the earth;" 
Proverbs8:30 Then I was beside Him, as a master workman; And I was a daily delight, Rejoicing always before Him," 
Proverbs8:31 Rejoicing in the world, His earth, My delight is in the sons of men." 
Proverbs8:32 “So now, O sons, listen to me, For blessed are they who keep my ways." 
Proverbs8:33 Hear discipline and be wise, And do not neglect it." 
Proverbs8:34 How blessed is the man who hears me, To watch daily at my doors, To keep watch at my doorposts." 
Proverbs8:35 For he who finds me finds life And obtains favor from Yahweh. 
Proverbs8:36 But he who sins against me does violence to his own soul; All those who hate me love death.” 
Proverbs9:1 Wisdom has built her house, She has hewn out her seven pillars;" 
Proverbs9:2 She has slaughtered her cattle, she has mixed her wine; She has also prepared her table;" 
Proverbs9:3 She has sent out her maidens, she calls From the tops of the heights of the city:" 
Proverbs9:4 “Whoever is simple, let him turn in here!” To him who lacks a heart of wisdom she says," 
Proverbs9:5 “Come, eat of my bread And drink of the wine I have mixed." 
Proverbs9:6 Forsake your simplicity and live, And step into the way of understanding.”" 
Proverbs9:7 He who disciplines a scoffer receives disgrace for himself, And he who reproves a wicked man receives injury for himself." 
Proverbs9:8 Do not reprove a scoffer, lest he hate you, Reprove a wise man and he will love you." 
Proverbs9:9 Give knowledge to a wise man and he will be still wiser, Make a righteous man know it and he will increase his learning." 
Proverbs9:10 The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom, And the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding." 
Proverbs9:11 For by me your days will become many, And years of life will be added to you." 
Proverbs9:12 If you are wise, you are wise for yourself, And if you scoff, you alone will bear it." 
Proverbs9:13 The woman of foolishness is boisterous, A woman of simplicity, and does not know anything." 
Proverbs9:14 She sits at the doorway of her house, On a seat by the high places of the city," 
Proverbs9:15 To call to those who pass by that way, Who are making their paths straight:" 
Proverbs9:16 “Whoever is simple, let him turn in here,” And to him who lacks a heart of wisdom she says," 
Proverbs9:17 “Stolen water is sweet; And bread eaten in secret is pleasant.” 
Proverbs9:18 But he does not know that the dead are there, That those she called are in the depths of Sheol." 
Proverbs10:1 The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a father glad, But a foolish son is a grief to his mother." 
Proverbs10:2 Treasures gained by wickedness do not profit, But righteousness delivers from death." 
Proverbs10:3 Yahweh will not allow the soul of the righteous to hunger, But He will push away the craving of the wicked." 
Proverbs10:4 Poor is he who works with a slack hand, But the hand of the diligent makes rich." 
Proverbs10:5 He who gathers in summer is a son who acts insightfully, But he who sleeps in harvest is a son who acts shamefully." 
Proverbs10:6 Blessings are on the head of the righteous, But the mouth of the wicked covers up violence." 
Proverbs10:7 The remembrance of the righteous is blessed, But the name of the wicked will rot." 
Proverbs10:8 The wise of heart will receive commandments, But an ignorant fool of loose lips will be ruined." 
Proverbs10:9 He who walks in integrity walks securely, But he who makes his ways crooked will be found out." 
Proverbs10:10 He who winks the eye causes pain, And an ignorant fool of loose lips will be ruined." 
Proverbs10:11 The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, But the mouth of the wicked covers up violence." 
Proverbs10:12 Hatred stirs up strife, But love covers all transgressions." 
Proverbs10:13 On the lips of the one who has understanding, wisdom is found, But a rod is for the back of him who lacks a heart of wisdom." 
Proverbs10:14 Wise men store up knowledge, But the mouth of the ignorant fool draws ruin near." 
Proverbs10:15 The rich man’s wealth is his strong city, The ruin of the poor is their poverty." 
Proverbs10:16 The wages of the righteous is life, The income of the wicked, punishment." 
Proverbs10:17 He is on the path of life who keeps discipline, But he who forsakes reproof makes himself wander about." 
Proverbs10:18 He who covers up hatred has lying lips, And he who spreads a bad report is a fool." 
Proverbs10:19 When there are many words, transgression is unavoidable, But he who holds back his lips has insight." 
Proverbs10:20 The tongue of the righteous is as choice silver, The heart of the wicked is worth little." 
Proverbs10:21 The lips of the righteous feed many, But ignorant fools die for lack of a heart of wisdom." 
Proverbs10:22 It is the blessing of Yahweh that makes rich, And He adds no pain with it." 
Proverbs10:23 Doing wickedness is like laughing to a fool, And so is wisdom to a man of discernment." 
Proverbs10:24 What the wicked dreads will come upon him, But the desire of the righteous will be granted." 
Proverbs10:25 When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more, But the righteous has an everlasting foundation." 
Proverbs10:26 Like vinegar to the teeth and like smoke to the eyes, So is the sluggard to those who send him." 
Proverbs10:27 The fear of Yahweh prolongs life, But the years of the wicked will be shortened." 
Proverbs10:28 The expectation of the righteous is gladness, But the hope of the wicked will perish." 
Proverbs10:29 The way of Yahweh is a stronghold to the one with integrity, But ruin to the workers of iniquity." 
Proverbs10:30 The righteous will never be shaken, But the wicked will not dwell in the land." 
Proverbs10:31 The mouth of the righteous bears wisdom, But the tongue of perversions will be cut out." 
Proverbs10:32 The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable, But the mouth of the wicked what is perverse." 
Proverbs11:1 A deceptive balance is an abomination to Yahweh, But a just weight is His delight." 
Proverbs11:2 When arrogance comes, then comes disgrace, But with the meek is wisdom." 
Proverbs11:3 The integrity of the upright will lead them, But the crookedness of the treacherous will destroy them." 
Proverbs11:4 Wealth will not profit in the day of wrath, But righteousness will deliver from death." 
Proverbs11:5 The righteousness of the blameless will make his way straight, But the wicked will fall by his own wickedness." 
Proverbs11:6 The righteousness of the upright will deliver them, But the treacherous will be captured by their own desire." 
Proverbs11:7 When a wicked man dies, his hope will perish, And the expectation of vigorous men perishes." 
Proverbs11:8 The righteous is rescued from distress, But the wicked takes his place." 
Proverbs11:9 With his mouth the godless man corrupts his neighbor, But through knowledge the righteous will be rescued." 
Proverbs11:10 When it goes well with the righteous, the city exults, And when the wicked perish, there is joyful shouting." 
Proverbs11:11 By the blessing of the upright a city is raised up, But by the mouth of the wicked it is torn down." 
Proverbs11:12 He who despises his neighbor lacks a heart of wisdom, But a man of discernment keeps silent." 
Proverbs11:13 He who goes about as a slanderer reveals secrets, But he who is faithful in spirit conceals a matter." 
Proverbs11:14 Where there is no guidance the people fall, But in abundance of counselors there is salvation." 
Proverbs11:15 If one becomes a guarantor for a stranger, he will surely suffer, But he who hates striking hands in pledge is secure." 
Proverbs11:16 A gracious woman holds fast to glory, But ruthless men hold fast to riches." 
Proverbs11:17 The man of lovingkindness deals bountifully with his soul, But the cruel man brings trouble on his flesh." 
Proverbs11:18 The wicked earns deceptive wages, But he who sows righteousness gets a true reward." 
Proverbs11:19 He who is steadfast in righteousness will attain to life, And he who pursues evil will bring about his own death." 
Proverbs11:20 Those with a crooked heart are an abomination to Yahweh, But those of a blameless way are His delight." 
Proverbs11:21 Assuredly, the evil man will not go unpunished, But the seed of the righteous will escape." 
Proverbs11:22 As a ring of gold in a swine’s snout So is a beautiful woman who turns away from discretion. 
Proverbs11:23 The desire of the righteous is only good, But the hope of the wicked is wrath." 
Proverbs11:24 There is one who scatters, and yet increases all the more, And there is one who holds back what is rightly due, and yet results only in want." 
Proverbs11:25 The soul that blesses will be enriched, And he who waters will himself be watered." 
Proverbs11:26 He who withholds grain, the people will curse him, But blessing will be on the head of him who sells it." 
Proverbs11:27 He who earnestly seeks good seeks favor, But he who searches for evil, evil will come to him." 
Proverbs11:28 He who trusts in his riches will fall, But the righteous will flourish like the green leaf." 
Proverbs11:29 He who troubles his own house will inherit wind, And the ignorant fool will be a slave to the wise of heart." 
Proverbs11:30 The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, And he who is wise wins souls." 
Proverbs11:31 If the righteous will be repaid in the earth, How much more the wicked and the sinner!" 
Proverbs12:1 Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, But he who hates reproof is senseless." 
Proverbs12:2 A good man will obtain favor from Yahweh, But a man of evil schemes He will condemn." 
Proverbs12:3 A man will not be established by wickedness, But the root of the righteous will not be shaken." 
Proverbs12:4 An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, But she who causes shame is like rottenness in his bones." 
Proverbs12:5 The thoughts of the righteous are just, But the guidance of the wicked is deceitful." 
Proverbs12:6 The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood, But the mouth of the upright will deliver them." 
Proverbs12:7 The wicked are overthrown and are no more, But the house of the righteous will stand." 
Proverbs12:8 A man will be praised according to his insight, But one of perverse heart will be despised." 
Proverbs12:9 Better is he who is lightly esteemed and has a servant Than he who honors himself and lacks bread. 
Proverbs12:10 A righteous man knows the value of the life of his animal, But even the compassion of the wicked is cruel." 
Proverbs12:11 He who cultivates his land will be satisfied with bread, But he who pursues empty things lacks a heart of wisdom." 
Proverbs12:12 The wicked man desires a stronghold of evil men, But the root of the righteous gives fruit." 
Proverbs12:13 The snare of an evil man is in the transgression of his lips, But the righteous man will come out from distress." 
Proverbs12:14 A man will be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth, And the good deed of a man’s hands will return to him." 
Proverbs12:15 The way of an ignorant fool is right in his own eyes, But a wise man is he who listens to counsel." 
Proverbs12:16 An ignorant fool’s anger is known at once, But a prudent man conceals disgrace." 
Proverbs12:17 He who breathes out truth declares what is right, But a false witness, deceit." 
Proverbs12:18 There is one who speaks rashly like the thrusts of a sword, But the tongue of the wise brings healing." 
Proverbs12:19 Truthful lips will be established forever, But a lying tongue is only for a moment." 
Proverbs12:20 Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, But counselors of peace have gladness." 
Proverbs12:21 No misfortune befalls the righteous, But the wicked are filled with calamity." 
Proverbs12:22 Lying lips are an abomination to Yahweh, But doers of faithfulness are His delight." 
Proverbs12:23 A prudent man conceals knowledge, But the heart of fools proclaims folly." 
Proverbs12:24 The hand of the diligent will rule, But the slack hand will be put to forced labor." 
Proverbs12:25 Anxiety in a man’s heart weighs it down, But a good word makes it glad." 
Proverbs12:26 The righteous is a guide to his neighbor, But the way of the wicked makes them wander about." 
Proverbs12:27 A slack handed man does not roast his prey, But the wealth of a man is precious for the diligent." 
Proverbs12:28 In the path of righteousness is life, And in its pathway there is no death." 
Proverbs13:1 A wise son accepts his father’s discipline, But a scoffer does not listen to rebuke." 
Proverbs13:2 From the fruit of a man’s mouth he eats what is good, But the soul of the treacherous desires violence." 
Proverbs13:3 The one who guards his mouth keeps his soul; The one who opens wide his lips comes to ruin. 
Proverbs13:4 The soul of the sluggard craves and gets nothing, But the soul of the diligent is enriched." 
Proverbs13:5 A righteous man hates a lying word, But a wicked man acts odiously and is humiliated." 
Proverbs13:6 Righteousness guards the one whose way is blameless, But wickedness subverts the sinner." 
Proverbs13:7 There is one who pretends to be rich, but has nothing; Another pretends to be poor, but has great wealth." 
Proverbs13:8 The ransom of a man’s life is his wealth, But the poor hears no rebuke." 
Proverbs13:9 The light of the righteous is glad, But the lamp of the wicked goes out." 
Proverbs13:10 With arrogance comes only quarreling, But with those who receive counsel is wisdom." 
Proverbs13:11 Wealth obtained from empty effort dwindles, But the one who gathers with his hand abounds." 
Proverbs13:12 Hope deferred makes the heart sick, But desire fulfilled is a tree of life." 
Proverbs13:13 The one who despises the word will be in debt to it, But the one who fears the commandment will be rewarded." 
Proverbs13:14 The instruction of the wise is a fountain of life, To turn aside from the snares of death." 
Proverbs13:15 Good insight gives grace, But the way of the treacherous is unrelenting." 
Proverbs13:16 Every prudent man acts with knowledge, But a fool spreads out folly." 
Proverbs13:17 A wicked messenger falls into evil, But a faithful envoy brings healing." 
Proverbs13:18 Poverty and disgrace come to him who neglects discipline, But he who keeps reproof will be honored." 
Proverbs13:19 Desire realized is pleasant to the soul, But it is an abomination to fools to turn away from evil." 
Proverbs13:20 He who walks with the wise will be wise, But the friend of fools will suffer harm." 
Proverbs13:21 Evil pursues sinners, But the righteous are repaid with good." 
Proverbs13:22 A good man leaves an inheritance to his children’s children, And the wealth of the sinner is stored up for the righteous." 
Proverbs13:23 Abundant food is in the fallow ground of the poor, But it is swept away by injustice." 
Proverbs13:24 He who holds back his rod hates his son, But he who loves him disciplines him diligently." 
Proverbs13:25 The righteous eats to the satisfaction of his soul, But the stomach of the wicked lacks." 
Proverbs14:1 The wise woman builds her house, But the woman of folly tears it down with her own hands." 
Proverbs14:2 He who walks in his uprightness fears Yahweh, But he who is devious in his ways despises Him." 
Proverbs14:3 In the mouth of the ignorant fool is a rod of lofty pride, But the lips of the wise will keep them." 
Proverbs14:4 Where no oxen are, the manger is clean, But much revenue comes by the strength of the ox." 
Proverbs14:5 A faithful witness will not lie, But a false witness breathes out lies." 
Proverbs14:6 A scoffer seeks wisdom and finds none, But knowledge is easy to one who has understanding." 
Proverbs14:7 Leave the presence of a fool, As you have not known lips of knowledge there." 
Proverbs14:8 The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way, But the folly of fools is deceit." 
Proverbs14:9 Ignorant fools scoff at guilt, But among the upright there is favor." 
Proverbs14:10 The heart knows its own bitterness, And a stranger does not share its gladness." 
Proverbs14:11 The house of the wicked will be destroyed, But the tent of the upright will flourish." 
Proverbs14:12 There is a way which seems right to a man, But its end is the way of death." 
Proverbs14:13 Even in laughter the heart may be in pain, And the end of joy may be grief." 
Proverbs14:14 The one who turns back in his heart will be satisfied with his ways, But a good man will be satisfied with his." 
Proverbs14:15 The simple believes everything, But the prudent one discerns his steps." 
Proverbs14:16 A wise man fears and turns away from evil, But a fool gets angry and feels secure." 
Proverbs14:17 A quick‑tempered man acts in folly, And a man of evil schemes is hated." 
Proverbs14:18 The simple inherit folly, But the prudent are crowned with knowledge." 
Proverbs14:19 The evil will bow down before the good, And the wicked at the gates of the righteous." 
Proverbs14:20 The poor is hated even by his neighbor, But those who love the rich are many." 
Proverbs14:21 He who despises his neighbor sins, But how blessed is he who is gracious to the poor." 
Proverbs14:22 Will they not wander in error who devise evil? But lovingkindness and truth will be to those who devise good. 
Proverbs14:23 In all painful labor there is profit, But mere words from the lips lead only to want." 
Proverbs14:24 The crown of the wise is their riches, But the folly of fools is folly." 
Proverbs14:25 A truthful witness delivers souls, But he who breathes out lies is deceitful." 
Proverbs14:26 In the fear of Yahweh there is strong security, And his children will have refuge." 
Proverbs14:27 The fear of Yahweh is a fountain of life, To turn aside from the snares of death." 
Proverbs14:28 In a multitude of people is a king’s splendor, But in the dearth of people is a prince’s ruin." 
Proverbs14:29 He who is slow to anger has great discernment, But he who is quick‑tempered raises up folly." 
Proverbs14:30 A tranquil heart is life to the body, But jealousy is rottenness to the bones." 
Proverbs14:31 He who oppresses the poor reproaches his Maker, But he who is gracious to the needy honors Him." 
Proverbs14:32 The wicked is thrust down by his own evil, But the righteous takes refuge even in his death." 
Proverbs14:33 Wisdom rests in the heart of one who has understanding, But in the midst of fools it is merely made known." 
Proverbs14:34 Righteousness exalts a nation, But sin is a disgrace to any people." 
Proverbs14:35 The king’s favor is toward a servant who acts insightfully, But his fury is toward him who acts shamefully." 
Proverbs15:1 A gentle answer turns away wrath, But a harsh word stirs up anger." 
Proverbs15:2 The tongue of the wise makes knowledge look good, But the mouth of fools pours forth folly." 
Proverbs15:3 The eyes of Yahweh are in every place, Watching the evil and the good." 
Proverbs15:4 A tongue that brings healing is a tree of life, But perversion in it breaks the spirit." 
Proverbs15:5 An ignorant fool spurns his father’s discipline, But he who keeps reproof is prudent." 
Proverbs15:6 The house of the righteous has much treasure, But in the income of the wicked there is trouble." 
Proverbs15:7 The lips of the wise disperse knowledge, But the hearts of fools are not so." 
Proverbs15:8 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh, But the prayer of the upright is His delight." 
Proverbs15:9 The way of the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh, But He loves one who pursues righteousness." 
Proverbs15:10 Grievous discipline is for him who forsakes the way; He who hates reproof will die. 
Proverbs15:11 Sheol and Abaddon lie open before Yahweh, How much more the hearts of the sons of men!" 
Proverbs15:12 A scoffer does not love one who reproves him, He will not go to the wise." 
Proverbs15:13 A glad heart makes a face look good, But when the heart is pained, the spirit is broken." 
Proverbs15:14 The heart of the one who has understanding seeks knowledge, But the mouth of fools feeds on folly." 
Proverbs15:15 All the days of the afflicted are evil, But a good heart has a continual feast." 
Proverbs15:16 Better is a little with the fear of Yahweh Than great treasure and turmoil with it. 
Proverbs15:17 Better is a dish of vegetables where there is love Than a fattened ox and hatred in it. 
Proverbs15:18 A hot‑tempered man stirs up strife, But the slow to anger quiets a dispute." 
Proverbs15:19 The way of the sluggard is as a hedge of thorns, But the path of the upright is a highway." 
Proverbs15:20 A wise son makes a father glad, But a foolish man despises his mother." 
Proverbs15:21 Folly is gladness to him who lacks a heart of wisdom, But a man of discernment walks straight." 
Proverbs15:22 Without consultation, plans are frustrated, But with many counselors they succeed." 
Proverbs15:23 A man has gladness in an apt answer, And how good is a timely word!" 
Proverbs15:24 The path of life leads upward for the one who has insight That he may turn away from Sheol below. 
Proverbs15:25 Yahweh will tear down the house of the proud, But He will cause the boundary of the widow to stand." 
Proverbs15:26 Evil thoughts are an abomination to Yahweh, But pleasant words are pure." 
Proverbs15:27 He who is greedy for gain troubles his own house, But he who hates gifts of bribery will live." 
Proverbs15:28 The heart of the righteous ponders how to answer, But the mouth of the wicked pours forth evil things." 
Proverbs15:29 Yahweh is far from the wicked, But He hears the prayer of the righteous." 
Proverbs15:30 Bright eyes gladden the heart; A good report puts fat on the bones. 
Proverbs15:31 He whose ear listens to the life‑giving reproof Will lodge among the wise. 
Proverbs15:32 He who neglects discipline despises his soul, But he who listens to reproof acquires a heart of wisdom." 
Proverbs15:33 The fear of Yahweh is the discipline leading to wisdom, And before glory comes humility." 
Proverbs16:1 The plans of the heart belong to man, But the answer of the tongue is from Yahweh." 
Proverbs16:2 All the ways of a man are pure in his own sight, But Yahweh weighs the motives." 
Proverbs16:3 Commit your works to Yahweh And your plans will be established. 
Proverbs16:4 Yahweh has made everything for its own purpose, Even the wicked for the day of evil." 
Proverbs16:5 Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to Yahweh; Assuredly, he will not be unpunished." 
Proverbs16:6 By lovingkindness and truth iniquity is atoned for, And by the fear of Yahweh one turns away from evil." 
Proverbs16:7 When a man’s ways are pleasing to Yahweh, He makes even his enemies to be at peace with him." 
Proverbs16:8 Better is a little with righteousness Than great produce with injustice. 
Proverbs16:9 The heart of man plans his way, But Yahweh directs his steps." 
Proverbs16:10 A divine decision is in the lips of the king; His mouth should not err in judgment. 
Proverbs16:11 A just balance and scales belong to Yahweh; All the weights of the bag are His work. 
Proverbs16:12 It is an abomination for kings to commit wickedness, For in righteousness a throne is established." 
Proverbs16:13 Righteous lips are the delight of kings, And he who speaks uprightly is loved." 
Proverbs16:14 The wrath of a king is like messengers of death, But a wise man will atone for it." 
Proverbs16:15 In the light of a king’s face is life, And his favor is like a cloud with the late rain." 
Proverbs16:16 How much better it is to acquire wisdom than fine gold! And to acquire understanding is to be chosen above silver. 
Proverbs16:17 The highway of the upright is to turn away from evil; He who guards his way keeps his soul. 
Proverbs16:18 Pride goes before destruction, And a haughty spirit before stumbling." 
Proverbs16:19 It is better to be humble in spirit with the lowly Than to divide the spoil with the proud. 
Proverbs16:20 He who considers the word will find good, And how blessed is he who trusts in Yahweh." 
Proverbs16:21 The wise in heart will be called understanding, And sweetness of lips increases learning." 
Proverbs16:22 Insight is a fountain of life to one who has it, But the discipline of ignorant fools is folly." 
Proverbs16:23 The heart of the wise gives insight to his mouth And increases learning to his lips. 
Proverbs16:24 Pleasant words are a honeycomb, Sweet to the soul and healing to the bones." 
Proverbs16:25 There is a way which seems right to a man, But its end is the way of death." 
Proverbs16:26 A worker’s appetite works for him, For his mouth urges him on." 
Proverbs16:27 A vile man digs up evil, And the words on his lips are like scorching fire." 
Proverbs16:28 A perverse man spreads strife, And a whisperer separates close companions." 
Proverbs16:29 A man of violence entices his neighbor And leads him in a way that is not good. 
Proverbs16:30 He who winks his eyes does so to devise perverse things; He who compresses his lips brings evil to pass. 
Proverbs16:31 Gray hair is a crown of beauty; It is found in the way of righteousness. 
Proverbs16:32 He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, And he who rules his own spirit, than he who captures a city." 
Proverbs16:33 The lot is cast into the lap, But its every judgment is from Yahweh." 
Proverbs17:1 Better is a dry morsel and tranquility with it Than a house full of feasting with strife. 
Proverbs17:2 A slave who acts insightfully will rule over a son who acts shamefully, And will share in the inheritance among brothers." 
Proverbs17:3 The refining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, But Yahweh tests hearts." 
Proverbs17:4 An evildoer gives heed to lips of wickedness; A liar gives ear to a destructive tongue. 
Proverbs17:5 He who mocks the poor reproaches his Maker; He who is glad at disaster will not go unpunished. 
Proverbs17:6 Grandchildren are the crown of old men, And the beauty of sons is their fathers." 
Proverbs17:7 Excellent lips are not fitting for a wicked fool, Even less are lying lips for a noble man." 
Proverbs17:8 A bribe is a charm in the eyes of its owner; Wherever he turns, he prospers." 
Proverbs17:9 He who covers a transgression seeks love, But he who repeats a matter separates close companions." 
Proverbs17:10 A rebuke goes deeper into one who understands Than a hundred blows into a fool. 
Proverbs17:11 A rebellious man seeks only evil, So a cruel messenger will be sent against him." 
Proverbs17:12 Let a man meet a bear robbed of her cubs, Rather than a fool in his folly." 
Proverbs17:13 He who returns evil for good, Evil will not depart from his house." 
Proverbs17:14 The beginning of strife is like letting out water, So abandon the dispute before it breaks out." 
Proverbs17:15 He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous, Both of them alike are an abomination to Yahweh." 
Proverbs17:16 Why is there a price in the hand of a fool to acquire wisdom, When he has no heart of wisdom?" 
Proverbs17:17 A friend loves at all times, And a brother is born for adversity." 
Proverbs17:18 A man lacking a heart of wisdom strikes his hands in pledge And becomes guarantor in the presence of his neighbor. 
Proverbs17:19 He who loves transgression loves quarreling; He who makes his doorway high seeks destruction. 
Proverbs17:20 He who has a crooked heart finds no good, And he who is perverted in his tongue falls into evil." 
Proverbs17:21 He who begets a fool does so to his grief, And the father of a wicked fool is not glad." 
Proverbs17:22 A glad heart is good medicine, But a broken spirit dries up the bones." 
Proverbs17:23 A wicked man receives a bribe from the bosom To thrust aside the paths of justice. 
Proverbs17:24 Wisdom is in the presence of the one who understands, But the eyes of a fool are on the ends of the earth." 
Proverbs17:25 A foolish son is a vexation to his father And bitterness to her who gave birth to him. 
Proverbs17:26 It is also not good to punish the righteous, Nor to strike the noble for their uprightness." 
Proverbs17:27 He who holds back his words has knowledge, And he who has a cool spirit is a man of discernment." 
Proverbs17:28 Even an ignorant fool, when he keeps silent, is considered wise; When he closes his lips, he is considered understanding." 
Proverbs18:1 He who separates himself seeks his own desire, He breaks out in dispute against all sound wisdom." 
Proverbs18:2 A fool does not delight in discernment, But only in revealing his own heart." 
Proverbs18:3 When a wicked man comes, despising also comes, And with disgrace comes reproach." 
Proverbs18:4 The words of a man’s mouth are deep waters; The fountain of wisdom is a flowing brook. 
Proverbs18:5 To show partiality to the wicked is not good, Nor to thrust aside the righteous in judgment." 
Proverbs18:6 A fool’s lips come with strife, And his mouth calls for beatings." 
Proverbs18:7 A fool’s mouth is his ruin, And his lips are the snare of his soul." 
Proverbs18:8 The words of a whisperer are like dainty morsels, And they go down into the innermost parts of the stomach." 
Proverbs18:9 He also who is slack in his work Is brother to him who destroys. 
Proverbs18:10 The name of Yahweh is a strong tower; The righteous runs into it and is set securely on high. 
Proverbs18:11 A rich man’s wealth is his strong city, And like a high wall in his own delusion." 
Proverbs18:12 Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, But humility goes before glory." 
Proverbs18:13 He who responds with a word before he hears, It is folly and shame to him." 
Proverbs18:14 The spirit of a man can endure his sickness, But as for a broken spirit, who can bear it?" 
Proverbs18:15 The heart of the understanding acquires knowledge, And the ear of the wise seeks knowledge." 
Proverbs18:16 A man’s gift makes room for him And leads him into the presence of great men. 
Proverbs18:17 The first to plead his case seems right, Until another comes and examines him." 
Proverbs18:18 The cast lot puts an end to contentions And decides between the mighty ones. 
Proverbs18:19 A brother offended is harder to win over than a strong city, And contentions are like the bars of a citadel." 
Proverbs18:20 From the fruit of a man’s mouth his stomach will be satisfied; With the produce of his lips he will be satisfied. 
Proverbs18:21 Death and life are in the power of the tongue, And those who love it will eat its fruit." 
Proverbs18:22 He who finds a wife finds a good thing And obtains favor from Yahweh. 
Proverbs18:23 The poor man speaks supplications, But the rich man answers with strong words." 
Proverbs18:24 A man of too many friends comes to ruin, But there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother." 
Proverbs19:1 Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity Than he who is crooked in lips and is a fool. 
Proverbs19:2 Also it is not good for a person to be without knowledge, And he who hurries his footsteps sins." 
Proverbs19:3 The folly of man subverts his way, But his heart rages against Yahweh." 
Proverbs19:4 Wealth adds many friends, But a poor man is separated from his friend." 
Proverbs19:5 A false witness will not go unpunished, And he who breathes out lies will not escape." 
Proverbs19:6 Many will seek the favor of a noble man, And everyone is a friend to a man who gives gifts." 
Proverbs19:7 All the brothers of a poor man hate him; How much more do his friends distance themselves from him! He pursues them with words, but they are no more." 
Proverbs19:8 He who acquires a heart of wisdom loves his own soul; He who keeps discernment will find good. 
Proverbs19:9 A false witness will not go unpunished, And he who breathes out lies will perish." 
Proverbs19:10 Luxury is not fitting for a fool; Much less for a slave to rule over princes. 
Proverbs19:11 A man’s insight makes him slow to anger, And it is his honor to overlook a transgression." 
Proverbs19:12 The king’s wrath is like the roaring of a lion, But his favor is like dew on the grass." 
Proverbs19:13 A foolish son is destruction to his father, And the contentions of a wife are a constant dripping." 
Proverbs19:14 House and wealth are an inheritance from fathers, But a wife who has insight is from Yahweh." 
Proverbs19:15 Laziness casts into a deep sleep, And a slack‑handed soul will suffer hunger." 
Proverbs19:16 He who keeps the commandment keeps his soul, But he who despises his way will die." 
Proverbs19:17 He who is gracious to a poor man lends to Yahweh, And He will repay him for his bountiful deed." 
Proverbs19:18 Discipline your son while there is hope, And do not direct your soul to put him to death." 
Proverbs19:19 A man of great wrath will bear the penalty, For if you deliver him, you will only have to do it again." 
Proverbs19:20 Listen to counsel and receive discipline, That you may be wise in the end of your days." 
Proverbs19:21 Many thoughts are in a man’s heart, But it is the counsel of Yahweh that will stand." 
Proverbs19:22 What is desirable in a man is his lovingkindness, And better is a poor man than a man of falsehood." 
Proverbs19:23 The fear of Yahweh leads to life, So that one may sleep satisfied, not visited by evil." 
Proverbs19:24 The sluggard buries his hand in the dish, But will not even bring it back to his mouth." 
Proverbs19:25 Strike a scoffer and the simple may become prudent, But reprove one who has understanding and he will understand knowledge." 
Proverbs19:26 He who assaults his father and causes his mother to flee Is a son who brings shame and humiliation. 
Proverbs19:27 Cease listening, my son, to discipline, And you will stray from the words of knowledge." 
Proverbs19:28 A vile witness scoffs at justice, And the mouth of the wicked swallows up iniquity." 
Proverbs19:29 Judgments are established for scoffers, And beatings for the back of fools." 
Proverbs20:1 Wine is a mocker, strong drink a brawler, And whoever is led astray by it is not wise." 
Proverbs20:2 The terror of a king is like the roar of a lion; He who provokes him to anger sins against his own soul. 
Proverbs20:3 It is a glory for a man to cease quarreling, But any ignorant fool will break out in dispute." 
Proverbs20:4 The sluggard does not plow from winter on, So he begs during the harvest and has nothing." 
Proverbs20:5 Counsel in the heart of a man is like deep water, But a man of discernment draws it out." 
Proverbs20:6 Many a man will call out his own lovingkindness, But a faithful man, who can find?" 
Proverbs20:7 A righteous man who walks in his integrity— How blessed are his sons after him. 
Proverbs20:8 A king who sits on the throne of justice Disperses all evil with his eyes. 
Proverbs20:9 Who can say, “I have kept my heart pure, I am clean from my sin”?" 
Proverbs20:10 Differing weights and differing measures, Both of them are an abomination to Yahweh." 
Proverbs20:11 It is by his deeds that a young man makes himself known If his conduct is pure and right. 
Proverbs20:12 The hearing ear and the seeing eye, Yahweh has made both of them." 
Proverbs20:13 Do not love sleep, lest you become poor; Open your eyes, and you will be satisfied with food." 
Proverbs20:14 “Bad, bad,” says the buyer, But when he goes his way, then he boasts." 
Proverbs20:15 There is gold, and an abundance of pearls; But the lips of knowledge are a more precious vessel." 
Proverbs20:16 Take his garment when he becomes a guarantor for a stranger; And for foreigners, hold him in pledge." 
Proverbs20:17 Bread obtained by lying is sweet to a man, But afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel." 
Proverbs20:18 Thoughts are established by counsel, So make war by guidance." 
Proverbs20:19 He who goes about as a slanderer reveals secrets, Therefore do not associate with one of loose lips." 
Proverbs20:20 He who curses his father or his mother, His lamp will go out in the midst of darkness." 
Proverbs20:21 An inheritance gained hurriedly at the beginning In the end will not be blessed. 
Proverbs20:22 Do not say, “I will repay evil”; Hope in Yahweh, and He will save you." 
Proverbs20:23 Differing weights are an abomination to Yahweh, And a deceitful balance is not good." 
Proverbs20:24 The steps of a man are from Yahweh, How then can man understand his way?" 
Proverbs20:25 It is a trap for a man to say rashly, “It is holy!” And after the vows to make inquiry." 
Proverbs20:26 A wise king winnows the wicked, And turns the threshing wheel over them." 
Proverbs20:27 The breath of man is the lamp of Yahweh, Searching all the innermost parts of his body." 
Proverbs20:28 Lovingkindness and truth will guard the king, And he upholds his throne by lovingkindness." 
Proverbs20:29 The honor of young men is their strength, And the majesty of old men is their gray hair." 
Proverbs20:30 Stripes that wound scour away evil, And strokes reach the innermost parts of the body." 
Proverbs21:1 The king’s heart is like channels of water in the hand of Yahweh; He turns it wherever He pleases. 
Proverbs21:2 Every man’s way is right in his own eyes, But Yahweh weighs the hearts." 
Proverbs21:3 To do righteousness and justice Is chosen by Yahweh over sacrifice. 
Proverbs21:4 Haughty eyes and a proud heart— The fallow ground of the wicked—are sin. 
Proverbs21:5 The thoughts of the diligent lead surely to profit, But everyone who is hasty comes surely to poverty." 
Proverbs21:6 Working for treasures by a lying tongue Is a fleeting breath, by those who pursue death." 
Proverbs21:7 The destruction of the wicked will drag them away, Because they refuse to do justice." 
Proverbs21:8 The way of a guilty man is perverse, But as for the pure, his work is upright." 
Proverbs21:9 It is better to live in a corner of a roof Than in a house shared with a contentious woman. 
Proverbs21:10 The soul of the wicked craves evil; His neighbor finds no favor in his eyes. 
Proverbs21:11 When the scoffer is punished, the simple becomes wise; And when one considers wisdom, he receives knowledge." 
Proverbs21:12 The righteous one considers the house of the wicked, Turning the wicked to ruin." 
Proverbs21:13 He who shuts his ear to the outcry of the poor Will himself also call and not be answered. 
Proverbs21:14 A gift in secret subdues anger, And a bribe in the bosom, strong wrath." 
Proverbs21:15 To do justice is pleasure for the righteous, But is ruin to the workers of iniquity." 
Proverbs21:16 A man who wanders from the way of insight Will rest in the assembly of the dead. 
Proverbs21:17 He who loves pleasure will become a poor man; He who loves wine and oil will not become rich. 
Proverbs21:18 The wicked is a ransom for the righteous, And the treacherous is in the place of the upright." 
Proverbs21:19 It is better to live in a desert land Than with a contentious and vexing woman. 
Proverbs21:20 There is desirable treasure and oil in the abode of the wise, But a foolish man swallows it up." 
Proverbs21:21 He who pursues righteousness and lovingkindness Finds life, righteousness, and glory." 
Proverbs21:22 A wise man goes up to the city of the mighty And brings down the stronghold in which they trust. 
Proverbs21:23 He who keeps his mouth and his tongue, Keeps his soul from troubles." 
Proverbs21:24 “Arrogant,” “Haughty,” “Scoffer,” are his names, Who acts with arrogant fury." 
Proverbs21:25 The desire of the sluggard puts him to death, For his hands refuse to work;" 
Proverbs21:26 All day long he is insatiably craving, While the righteous gives and does not hold back." 
Proverbs21:27 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination, How much more when he brings it with a wicked scheme!" 
Proverbs21:28 A false witness will perish, But the man who listens will speak forever." 
Proverbs21:29 A wicked man displays a brazen face, But as for the upright, he establishes his way." 
Proverbs21:30 There is no wisdom, there is no discernment And there is no counsel against Yahweh." 
Proverbs21:31 The horse is set for the day of battle, But salvation belongs to Yahweh." 
Proverbs22:1 A good name is to be chosen over great wealth, Favor is better than silver and gold." 
Proverbs22:2 The rich and the poor meet together in this— Yahweh is the Maker of them all. 
Proverbs22:3 A prudent man sees evil and hides, But the simple pass on, and are punished." 
Proverbs22:4 The reward of humility—the fear of Yahweh— Is riches, glory, and life." 
Proverbs22:5 Thorns and snares are in the way of the crooked; He who keeps his soul will be far from them. 
Proverbs22:6 Train up a child according to his way, Even when he is old he will not depart from it." 
Proverbs22:7 The rich rules over the poor, And the borrower is the slave of the lender." 
Proverbs22:8 He who sows unrighteousness will reap iniquity, And the rod of his fury will end." 
Proverbs22:9 He who is generous will be blessed, For he gives from his food to the poor." 
Proverbs22:10 Drive out the scoffer, and strife will go out, Even contention and disgrace will cease." 
Proverbs22:11 He who loves purity of heart And grace on his lips, the king is his friend." 
Proverbs22:12 The eyes of Yahweh guard knowledge, But He subverts the words of the treacherous one." 
Proverbs22:13 The sluggard says, “There is a lion outside; I will be killed in the streets!”" 
Proverbs22:14 The mouth of strange women is a deep pit; He who is cursed of Yahweh will fall into it. 
Proverbs22:15 Folly is bound up in the heart of a child; The rod of discipline will remove it far from him. 
Proverbs22:16 He who oppresses the poor to make more for himself Or who gives to the rich will only come to lack. 
Proverbs22:17 Incline your ear and hear the words of the wise, And set your heart on my knowledge;" 
Proverbs22:18 For it will be pleasant if you keep them within you, That they may be established on your lips." 
Proverbs22:19 So that your trust may be in Yahweh, I have made you know today, even you." 
Proverbs22:20 Have I not written to you excellent things Of counsels and knowledge," 
Proverbs22:21 To make you know the veracity of the words of truth That you may respond with the words of truth to him who sent you? 
Proverbs22:22 Do not rob the poor because he is poor, And do not crush the afflicted at the gate;" 
Proverbs22:23 For Yahweh will plead their case And rob the soul of those who rob them. 
Proverbs22:24 Do not befriend a man of anger; And do not come along with a man of great wrath," 
Proverbs22:25 Lest you learn his ways And take on a snare against your soul. 
Proverbs22:26 Do not be among those who strike hands in pledge, Among those who become guarantors for debts." 
Proverbs22:27 If you have nothing with which to pay, Why should he take your bed from under you?" 
Proverbs22:28 Do not move the ancient boundary Which your fathers made. 
Proverbs22:29 Do you see a man skilled in his work? He will stand before kings; He will not stand before obscure men. 
Proverbs23:1 When you sit down to dine with a ruler, Understand well what is before you," 
Proverbs23:2 So you should put a knife to your throat If you are a man of appetite. 
Proverbs23:3 Do not desire his delicacies, For it is bread of falsehood." 
Proverbs23:4 Do not weary yourself to gain wealth, Because of your understanding, cease!" 
Proverbs23:5 Do you make your eyes fly up to see it? But it is not there! Because it certainly makes itself wings Like an eagle that flies toward the heavens. 
Proverbs23:6 Do not eat the bread of a selfish man, And do not desire his delicacies;" 
Proverbs23:7 For as he calculates in his soul, so he is. “Eat and drink!” he says to you, But his heart is not with you." 
Proverbs23:8 You will vomit up the morsel you have eaten, And you will corrupt your pleasant words." 
Proverbs23:9 Do not speak in the hearing of a fool, For he will despise the insight of your speech." 
Proverbs23:10 Do not move the ancient boundary And do not come into the fields of the orphans," 
Proverbs23:11 For their Redeemer is strong; He will plead their case against you. 
Proverbs23:12 Bring your heart to discipline And your ears to words of knowledge. 
Proverbs23:13 Do not withhold discipline from the child, Although you strike him with the rod, he will not die." 
Proverbs23:14 You shall strike him with the rod And deliver his soul from Sheol. 
Proverbs23:15 My son, if your heart is wise, My own heart also will be glad;" 
Proverbs23:16 And my inmost being will exult When your lips speak upright things. 
Proverbs23:17 Do not let your heart be jealous of sinners, But be zealous in the fear of Yahweh always." 
Proverbs23:18 Surely there is a future, And your hope will not be cut off." 
Proverbs23:19 You, my son, listen and be wise, And direct your heart in the way." 
Proverbs23:20 Do not be with heavy drinkers of wine, Or with gluttonous eaters of meat;" 
Proverbs23:21 For the heavy drinker and the glutton will come to poverty, And drowsiness will clothe them with rags." 
Proverbs23:22 Listen to your father who begot you, And do not despise your mother when she is old." 
Proverbs23:23 Buy truth, and do not sell it, Get wisdom and discipline and understanding." 
Proverbs23:24 The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice, And he who begets a wise son will be glad in him." 
Proverbs23:25 Let your father and your mother be glad, And let her rejoice who gave birth to you." 
Proverbs23:26 Give your heart to me, my son, And let your eyes delight in my ways." 
Proverbs23:27 For a harlot is a deep pit And a foreign woman is a narrow well. 
Proverbs23:28 Surely she lies in wait as a robber, And adds to the treacherous among men." 
Proverbs23:29 Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has contentions? Who has complaining? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness of eyes? 
Proverbs23:30 Those who linger long over wine, Those who go to search out mixed wine." 
Proverbs23:31 Do not look on the wine when it glistens red, When it sparkles in the cup, When it goes down smoothly;" 
Proverbs23:32 At the end—like a serpent it bites, And like a viper it stings." 
Proverbs23:33 Your eyes will see strange things And your heart will speak perverse things. 
Proverbs23:34 And you will be like one who lies down in the heart of the sea, Or like one who lies down on the top of a mast." 
Proverbs23:35 “They struck me, but I did not become ill; They beat me, but I did not know it. When shall I awake? I will seek yet another.”" 
Proverbs24:1 Do not be jealous of evil men, And do not desire to be with them;" 
Proverbs24:2 For their heart meditates on destruction, And their lips talk of mischief." 
Proverbs24:3 By wisdom a house is built, And by discernment it is firmly established;" 
Proverbs24:4 And by knowledge the rooms are filled With all precious and pleasant riches. 
Proverbs24:5 A wise man is strong, And a man of knowledge strengthens his power." 
Proverbs24:6 For by guidance you will make war, And in abundance of counselors there is salvation." 
Proverbs24:7 Wisdom is too exalted for an ignorant fool, He does not open his mouth in the gate." 
Proverbs24:8 One who deliberately thinks to do evil, Men will call a schemer." 
Proverbs24:9 The scheming of folly is sin, And the scoffer is an abomination to men." 
Proverbs24:10 If you are slack in the day of trouble, Your strength is in trouble." 
Proverbs24:11 Deliver those who are being taken away to death, And those who are stumbling to the slaughter, Oh hold them back." 
Proverbs24:12 If you say, “Behold, we did not know this,” Does not He who weighs the hearts understand? And does not He who guards your soul know? And will not He render to man according to his work?" 
Proverbs24:13 Eat honey, my son, for it is good, Indeed, the honey from the comb is sweet to your taste;" 
Proverbs24:14 Know that wisdom is thus for your soul; If you find it, then there will be a future, And your hope will not be cut off." 
Proverbs24:15 Do not lie in wait, O wicked man, against the abode of the righteous; Do not destroy his resting place;" 
Proverbs24:16 For a righteous man falls seven times, and rises again, But the wicked will stumble in calamity." 
Proverbs24:17 When your enemy falls, do not be glad, And when he stumbles, do not let your heart rejoice;" 
Proverbs24:18 Lest Yahweh see it and it be evil in His eyes, And turn His anger away from him." 
Proverbs24:19 Do not fret because of evildoers Do not be jealous of the wicked; 
Proverbs24:20 For there will be no future for the evil one; The lamp of the wicked will go out. 
Proverbs24:21 My son, fear Yahweh and the king; Do not associate with those who change," 
Proverbs24:22 For suddenly their disaster will rise, And who knows the upheaval that comes from both of them?" 
Proverbs24:23 These also are sayings of the wise. To show partiality in judgment is not good. 
Proverbs24:24 He who says to the wicked, “You are righteous,” Peoples will curse him, nations will be indignant with him;" 
Proverbs24:25 But to those who reprove the wicked, it will be pleasant, And a good blessing will come upon them." 
Proverbs24:26 He kisses the lips Who responds with right words. 
Proverbs24:27 Establish your work outside And make it ready for yourself in the field; And afterwards, you shall build your house." 
Proverbs24:28 Do not be a witness against your neighbor without cause, Nor deceive with your lips." 
Proverbs24:29 Do not say, “As he did to me so I shall do to him; I will render to the man according to his work.”" 
Proverbs24:30 I passed by the field of the sluggard And by the vineyard of the man lacking a heart of wisdom," 
Proverbs24:31 And behold, it was completely overgrown with thistles; Nettles have covered its surface, And its stone wall has been torn down." 
Proverbs24:32 And I beheld, I set my heart upon it; I saw, I received discipline." 
Proverbs24:33 “A little sleep, a little slumber, A little folding of the hands to rest,”" 
Proverbs24:34 Then your poverty will come as a robber And your want like an armed man. 
Proverbs25:1 These also are proverbs of Solomon which the men of Hezekiah, king of Judah, transcribed." 
Proverbs25:2 It is the glory of God to conceal a matter, But the glory of kings is to search out a matter." 
Proverbs25:3 As the heavens for height and the earth for depth, So the heart of kings is unsearchable." 
Proverbs25:4 Take away the dross from the silver, And there comes out a vessel for the smith;" 
Proverbs25:5 Take away the wicked before the king, And his throne will be established in righteousness." 
Proverbs25:6 Do not promote your majesty in the presence of the king, And in the place of great men do not stand;" 
Proverbs25:7 For it is better that it be said to you, “Come up here,” Than for you to be placed lower in the presence of a noble, Whom your eyes have seen." 
Proverbs25:8 Do not go out hastily to plead your case; Lest, what will you do in the end, When your neighbor humiliates you?" 
Proverbs25:9 Plead your case with your neighbor, And do not reveal the secret of another," 
Proverbs25:10 Lest he who hears it bring disgrace upon you, And the bad report about you will not turn away." 
Proverbs25:11 Like apples of gold in settings of silver Is a word spoken in right circumstances. 
Proverbs25:12 Like an earring of gold and an ornament of fine gold Is a wise reprover to a listening ear. 
Proverbs25:13 Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest Is a faithful envoy to those who send him, For he refreshes the soul of his masters." 
Proverbs25:14 Like clouds and wind without rain Is a man who boasts of his gifts falsely. 
Proverbs25:15 When one is slow to anger, a ruler may be persuaded, And a soft tongue breaks the bone." 
Proverbs25:16 Have you found honey? Eat only enough for you, Lest you have more than your fill and vomit it." 
Proverbs25:17 Let your foot rarely be in your neighbor’s house, Lest he have more than his fill of you and hate you." 
Proverbs25:18 Like a club and a sword and a sharp arrow Is a man who bears false witness against his neighbor. 
Proverbs25:19 Like an aching tooth and a slipping foot Is trust in a treacherous man in a day of distress. 
Proverbs25:20 Like one who takes off a garment on a cold day, or like vinegar on soda, Is he who sings songs to an aching heart." 
Proverbs25:21 If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat; And if he is thirsty, give him water to drink;" 
Proverbs25:22 For you will heap burning coals on his head, And Yahweh will repay you." 
Proverbs25:23 The north wind brings forth rain, And a tongue of secrets, an indignant face." 
Proverbs25:24 It is better to live in a corner of the roof Than in a house shared with a contentious woman. 
Proverbs25:25 Like cold water to a weary soul, So is a good report from a distant land." 
Proverbs25:26 Like a muddied spring and a corrupted well Is a righteous man shaking before the wicked. 
Proverbs25:27 To eat too much honey is not good, Nor is it glory to search out one’s own glory." 
Proverbs25:28 Like a city that is broken into and without a wall Is a man without restraint over his spirit. 
Proverbs26:1 Like snow in summer and like rain in harvest, So glory is not fitting for a fool." 
Proverbs26:2 Like a sparrow in its flitting, like a swallow in flying, So a curse without cause does not come to pass." 
Proverbs26:3 A whip is for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, And a rod for the back of fools." 
Proverbs26:4 Do not answer a fool according to his folly, Lest you yourself also be like him." 
Proverbs26:5 Answer a fool according to his folly, Lest he be wise in his own eyes." 
Proverbs26:6 He cuts off his own feet and drinks violence Who sends words by the hand of a fool. 
Proverbs26:7 Like the legs which hang limp on the lame, So is a proverb in the mouth of fools." 
Proverbs26:8 Like one who binds a stone in a sling, So is he who gives glory to a fool." 
Proverbs26:9 Like a thorn which goes up into the hand of a drunkard, So is a proverb in the mouth of fools." 
Proverbs26:10 Like an archer who wounds everyone, So is he who hires a fool or who hires those who pass by." 
Proverbs26:11 Like a dog that returns to its vomit Is a fool who repeats his folly. 
Proverbs26:12 Do you see a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him. 
Proverbs26:13 The sluggard says, “There is a fierce lion in the road! A lion is among the streets!”" 
Proverbs26:14 As the door turns on its hinges, So does the sluggard on his bed." 
Proverbs26:15 The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; He is too weary to return it to his mouth. 
Proverbs26:16 The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes Than seven men who can respond with a discreet answer. 
Proverbs26:17 Like one who seizes a dog by the ears Is he who passes by and becomes passionate about strife not belonging to him. 
Proverbs26:18 Like a madman who shoots Firebrands, arrows, and death," 
Proverbs26:19 So is the man who deceives his neighbor, And says, “Am I not joking?”" 
Proverbs26:20 With no wood the fire goes out, And where there is no whisperer, strife quiets down." 
Proverbs26:21 Like charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, So is a contentious man to kindle strife." 
Proverbs26:22 The words of a whisperer are like dainty morsels, And they go down into the innermost parts of the stomach." 
Proverbs26:23 Like an earthen vessel overlaid with silver dross Are fiery lips and an evil heart. 
Proverbs26:24 He who hates disguises it with his lips, But he sets up deceit within himself." 
Proverbs26:25 When he makes his voice gracious, do not believe him, For there are seven abominations in his heart." 
Proverbs26:26 Though his hatred covers itself with guile, His evil will be revealed in the assembly." 
Proverbs26:27 He who digs a pit will fall into it, And he who rolls a stone, it will turn back on him." 
Proverbs26:28 A lying tongue hates those it crushes, And a flattering mouth works ruin." 
Proverbs27:1 Do not boast about tomorrow, For you do not know what a day may bring forth." 
Proverbs27:2 Let a stranger praise you, and not your own mouth; A foreigner, and not your own lips." 
Proverbs27:3 A stone is heavy and the sand weighty, But the provocation of an ignorant fool is heavier than both of them." 
Proverbs27:4 Wrath is cruelty and anger is a flood, But who can stand before jealousy?" 
Proverbs27:5 Better is reproof that is revealed Than love that is hidden. 
Proverbs27:6 Faithful are the wounds of a friend, But deceitful are the kisses of an enemy." 
Proverbs27:7 A satisfied soul tramples the honeycomb, But to a hungry soul any bitter thing is sweet." 
Proverbs27:8 Like a bird that wanders from her nest, So is a man who wanders from his place." 
Proverbs27:9 Oil and incense make the heart glad, So counsel from the soul is sweet to his friend." 
Proverbs27:10 Do not forsake your friend or your father’s friend, And do not come to your brother’s house in the day of your disaster; Better is one who dwells near than a brother far away." 
Proverbs27:11 Be wise, my son, and make my heart glad, That I may respond with a word to him who reproaches me." 
Proverbs27:12 A prudent man sees evil and hides, The simple pass on and are punished." 
Proverbs27:13 Take his garment when he becomes a guarantor for a stranger; And for a foreign woman seize it as a pledge. 
Proverbs27:14 He who blesses his friend with a loud voice early in the morning, It will be counted as a curse to him." 
Proverbs27:15 A constant dripping on a day of steady rain And a contentious woman are alike; 
Proverbs27:16 He who would restrain her restrains the wind, And grasps oil with his right hand." 
Proverbs27:17 Iron sharpens iron, So one man sharpens another." 
Proverbs27:18 He who guards the fig tree will eat its fruit, And he who keeps watch for his master will be honored." 
Proverbs27:19 As in water face reflects face, So the heart of man reflects man." 
Proverbs27:20 Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied, So the eyes of man are never satisfied." 
Proverbs27:21 The refining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, And each is tested by the mouth that praises him." 
Proverbs27:22 Though you pound an ignorant fool in a mortar with a pestle in the midst of crushed grain, His folly will not turn aside from him." 
Proverbs27:23 Know well the condition of your flocks, And pay attention to your herds;" 
Proverbs27:24 For wealth is not forever, Neither is a crown from generation to generation." 
Proverbs27:25 When the grass disappears and the vegetation appears, And the herbs of the mountains are gathered in," 
Proverbs27:26 The lambs will be for your clothing, And the goats will bring the price of a field," 
Proverbs27:27 And there will be enough goats’ milk for your food, For the food of your household, And sustenance for your maidens." 
Proverbs28:1 The wicked flee when there is no one pursuing, But the righteous are secure as a lion." 
Proverbs28:2 By the transgression of a land many are its princes, But by a man who understands, who knows, so it endures." 
Proverbs28:3 A poor man who oppresses the lowly Is a driving rain which leaves no food. 
Proverbs28:4 Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, But those who keep the law strive with them." 
Proverbs28:5 Evil men do not understand justice, But those who seek Yahweh understand all things." 
Proverbs28:6 Better is the poor who walks in his integrity Than he who is crooked—double dealing—though he be rich. 
Proverbs28:7 He who observes the law is a son who understands, But he who befriends gluttons humiliates his father." 
Proverbs28:8 He who increases his wealth by interest and usury Gathers it for him who is gracious to the lowly. 
Proverbs28:9 He who turns away his ear from listening to the law, Even his prayer is an abomination." 
Proverbs28:10 He who leads the upright astray in an evil way Will himself fall into his own pit, But the blameless will inherit good." 
Proverbs28:11 The rich man is wise in his own eyes, But the lowly who understands searches him." 
Proverbs28:12 When the righteous exult, there is great honor, But when the wicked rise, man has to be sought out." 
Proverbs28:13 He who conceals his transgressions will not prosper, But he who confesses and forsakes them will receive compassion." 
Proverbs28:14 How blessed is the man who is always in dread, But he who hardens his heart will fall into calamity." 
Proverbs28:15 Like a roaring lion and a rushing bear Is a wicked ruler over a poor people. 
Proverbs28:16 A leader who lacks discernment abounds in oppressions, But he who hates greedy gain will prolong his days." 
Proverbs28:17 A man oppressed with the bloodguilt of life Will flee until death; let no one uphold him. 
Proverbs28:18 He who walks blamelessly will be saved, But he who is crooked—double dealing—will fall all at once." 
Proverbs28:19 He who cultivates his ground will be satisfied with food, But he who pursues empty things will be satisfied with poverty." 
Proverbs28:20 A faithful man will abound with blessings, But he who makes haste to be rich will not go unpunished." 
Proverbs28:21 To show partiality is not good, Even for a piece of bread a man will transgress." 
Proverbs28:22 A man with an evil eye hurries after wealth And does not know that want will come upon him. 
Proverbs28:23 He who reproves a man will afterward find more favor Than he who flatters with the tongue. 
Proverbs28:24 He who robs his father or his mother And says, “It is not a transgression,” Is the companion of a man who destroys." 
Proverbs28:25 An arrogant man stirs up strife, But he who trusts in Yahweh will be enriched." 
Proverbs28:26 He who trusts in his own heart is a fool, But he who walks wisely will escape." 
Proverbs28:27 He who gives to the poor will never want, But he who shuts his eyes will have many curses." 
Proverbs28:28 When the wicked rise, men hide themselves; But when they perish, the righteous increase." 
Proverbs29:1 A man who hardens his neck after much reproof Will suddenly be broken beyond healing. 
Proverbs29:2 When the righteous increase, the people are glad, But when a wicked man rules, people groan." 
Proverbs29:3 A man who loves wisdom makes his father glad, But he who befriends harlots destroys his wealth." 
Proverbs29:4 By justice the king causes the land to stand, But a man of bribes tears it down." 
Proverbs29:5 A man who flatters his neighbor Is spreading a net for his steps. 
Proverbs29:6 By transgression an evil man is ensnared, But the righteous sings with joy and is glad." 
Proverbs29:7 The righteous knows the cause of the poor, The wicked does not understand that knowledge." 
Proverbs29:8 Scoffers set a city aflame, But wise men turn away anger." 
Proverbs29:9 When a wise man is brought into judgment with a man who is an ignorant fool, The ignorant fool both rages and laughs, and there is no rest." 
Proverbs29:10 Men of bloodshed hate the blameless, But the upright seek the well‑being of his soul." 
Proverbs29:11 A fool lets out all of his spirit, But a wise man holds it back." 
Proverbs29:12 If a ruler pays attention to a lying word, All his ministers become wicked." 
Proverbs29:13 The poor man and the oppressor meet together in this— Yahweh gives light to the eyes of both. 
Proverbs29:14 If a king judges the poor with truth, His throne will be established forever." 
Proverbs29:15 The rod and reproof give wisdom, But a child left to himself brings shame to his mother." 
Proverbs29:16 When the wicked increase, transgression increases; But the righteous will see their fall." 
Proverbs29:17 Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; And he will give delight to your soul." 
Proverbs29:18 Where there is no vision, the people are out of control, But how blessed is he who keeps the law." 
Proverbs29:19 A slave will not be corrected by words alone; For though he understands, there will be no answer." 
Proverbs29:20 Do you behold a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him. 
Proverbs29:21 He who pampers his slave from childhood Will in the end find him to be arrogant. 
Proverbs29:22 An angry man stirs up strife, And a hot‑tempered man abounds in transgression." 
Proverbs29:23 A man’s lofty pride will bring him low, But a lowly spirit will take hold of glory." 
Proverbs29:24 He who divides the spoil with a thief hates his own soul; He hears the oath but declares nothing. 
Proverbs29:25 Trembling before man brings a snare, But he who trusts in Yahweh will be set securely on high." 
Proverbs29:26 Many seek the face of a ruler, But justice for man comes from Yahweh." 
Proverbs29:27 An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, And he who is upright in the way is an abomination to the wicked." 
Proverbs30:1 The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, the oracle. The man declares to Ithiel, to Ithiel and Ucal:" 
Proverbs30:2 Surely I am more senseless than any man, And I do not have the understanding of mankind." 
Proverbs30:3 Neither have I learned wisdom, Nor do I know the knowledge of the Holy One." 
Proverbs30:4 Who has ascended into heaven and descended? Who has gathered the wind in His fists? Who has wrapped the waters in His garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is His name? And what is His Son’s name? Surely you know! 
Proverbs30:5 Every word of God is tested; He is a shield to those who take refuge in Him. 
Proverbs30:6 Do not add to His words Lest He reprove you, and you be proved a liar." 
Proverbs30:7 Two things I asked of You, Do not withhold from me before I die:" 
Proverbs30:8 Keep worthlessness and every false word far from me, Give me neither poverty nor riches; Feed me with the food that is my portion," 
Proverbs30:9 Lest I be full and deny You and say, “Who is Yahweh?” Or lest I be impoverished and steal, And profane the name of my God." 
Proverbs30:10 Do not slander a slave to his master, Lest he curse you and you be found guilty." 
Proverbs30:11 There is a generation that curses its father And does not bless its mother. 
Proverbs30:12 There is a generation that is clean in its own eyes, Yet is not washed from its filthiness." 
Proverbs30:13 There is a generation—oh how haughty are its eyes! And its eyelids are lifted up. 
Proverbs30:14 There is a generation whose teeth are like swords And its fangs like knives, To devour the afflicted from the earth And the needy from among men." 
Proverbs30:15 The leech has two daughters, “Give,” “Give.” There are three things that will not be satisfied, Four that will not say, “Enough”:" 
Proverbs30:16 Sheol, and the barren womb, Earth that is never satisfied with water, And fire that never says, “Enough.”" 
Proverbs30:17 The eye that mocks a father And despises obedience to a mother, The ravens of the valley will pick it out, And the young eagles will eat it." 
Proverbs30:18 There are three things which are too wonderful for me, Four which I do not understand:" 
Proverbs30:19 The way of an eagle in the sky, The way of a serpent on a rock, The way of a ship in the heart of the sea, And the way of a man with a virgin." 
Proverbs30:20 This is the way of an adulterous woman: She eats and wipes her mouth, And says, “I have done no wrong.”" 
Proverbs30:21 Under three things the earth quakes, And under four, it cannot bear up:" 
Proverbs30:22 Under a slave when he becomes king, And a wicked fool when he is satisfied with food," 
Proverbs30:23 Under an unloved woman when she gets a husband, And a servant‑girl when she supplants her mistress." 
Proverbs30:24 Four things are small on the earth, But they are exceedingly wise:" 
Proverbs30:25 The ants are not a strong people, But they prepare their food in the summer;" 
Proverbs30:26 The shephanim are not a mighty people, Yet they make their houses in the cliff;" 
Proverbs30:27 The locusts have no king, Yet all of them go out in rank;" 
Proverbs30:28 The lizard you may grasp with the hands, Yet it is in kings’ palaces." 
Proverbs30:29 There are three things which are stately in their march, Even four which are stately when they walk:" 
Proverbs30:30 The lion which is mighty among the animals And does not turn back before any," 
Proverbs30:31 The strutting rooster, the male goat also, And a king when his army is with him." 
Proverbs30:32 If you have been wickedly foolish in lifting yourself up, Or if you have schemed evil, put your hand on your mouth." 
Proverbs30:33 For pressing milk brings forth butter, And pressing the nose brings forth blood; And pressing anger brings forth strife." 
Proverbs31:1 The words of King Lemuel, the oracle unto which his mother disciplined him:" 
Proverbs31:2 What, O my son? And what, O son of my womb? And what, O son of my vows?" 
Proverbs31:3 Do not give your excellence to women, Or your ways to that which blots out kings." 
Proverbs31:4 It is not for kings, O Lemuel, It is not for kings to drink wine, Or for rulers to desire strong drink," 
Proverbs31:5 Lest he drink and forget what is decreed, And pervert the justice of all the afflicted." 
Proverbs31:6 Give strong drink to him who is perishing, And wine to those whose soul is bitter." 
Proverbs31:7 Let him drink and forget his poverty And he will not remember his trouble any longer. 
Proverbs31:8 Open your mouth for the mute, For the justice of all those passing away." 
Proverbs31:9 Open your mouth, judge righteously, And render justice to the afflicted and needy." 
Proverbs31:10 An excellent wife, who can find? For her worth is far above pearls." 
Proverbs31:11 The heart of her husband trusts in her, And he will have no lack of gain." 
Proverbs31:12 She deals bountifully with him for good and not evil All the days of her life. 
Proverbs31:13 She searches for wool and flax And works with her hands in delight. 
Proverbs31:14 She is like merchant ships; She brings her food from afar. 
Proverbs31:15 And she rises while it is still night, And gives food to her household And a portion to her young women." 
Proverbs31:16 She makes plans for a field and buys it; From the fruit of her hands she plants a vineyard. 
Proverbs31:17 She girds herself with strength And makes her arms strong. 
Proverbs31:18 She senses that her gain is good; Her lamp does not go out at night. 
Proverbs31:19 She stretches out her hands to the distaff, And her hands hold fast the spindle." 
Proverbs31:20 She extends her hand to the poor, And she stretches out her hands to the needy." 
Proverbs31:21 She is not afraid of the snow for her household, For all her household are clothed with scarlet." 
Proverbs31:22 She makes coverings for herself; Her clothing is fine linen and purple. 
Proverbs31:23 Her husband is known in the gates, When he sits with the elders of the land." 
Proverbs31:24 She makes linen garments and sells them, And gives belts to the tradesmen." 
Proverbs31:25 Strength and majesty are her clothing, And she smiles at the future." 
Proverbs31:26 She opens her mouth in wisdom, And the instruction of lovingkindness is on her tongue." 
Proverbs31:27 She watches over the ways of her household, And does not eat the bread of idleness." 
Proverbs31:28 Her children rise up and bless her; As for her husband, he also praises her, saying:" 
Proverbs31:29 “Many daughters have done excellently, But you have gone above them all.”" 
Proverbs31:30 Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, But a woman who fears Yahweh, she shall be praised." 
Proverbs31:31 Give to her from the fruit of her hands, And let her works praise her in the gates." 
Ecclesiastes1:1 The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem." 
Ecclesiastes1:2 “Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher, “Vanity of vanities! All is vanity.”" 
Ecclesiastes1:3 What advantage does man have in all his labor In which he labors under the sun? 
Ecclesiastes1:4 A generation goes and a generation comes, But the earth stands forever." 
Ecclesiastes1:5 Also, the sun rises and the sun sets; And hastening to its place it rises there again." 
Ecclesiastes1:6 Going toward the south, Then circling toward the north, The wind goes circling along; And on its circular courses the wind returns." 
Ecclesiastes1:7 All the rivers go into the sea, Yet the sea is not full. To the place where the rivers go, There they continually go." 
Ecclesiastes1:8 All things are wearisome; Man is not able to speak of it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, Nor is the ear filled with hearing." 
Ecclesiastes1:9 That which has been is that which will be, And that which has been done is that which will be done. So there is nothing new under the sun." 
Ecclesiastes1:10 Is there anything of which one might say, “See this, it is new”? Already it has been for ages Which were before us." 
Ecclesiastes1:11 There is no remembrance of earlier things; And also of the later things which will be, There will be for them no remembrance Among those who will come later still." 
Ecclesiastes1:12 I, the Preacher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem." 
Ecclesiastes1:13 And I gave my heart to seek and explore by wisdom concerning all that has been done under heaven. It is a grievous endeavor which God has given to the sons of men with which to occupy themselves. 
Ecclesiastes1:14 I have seen all the works which have been done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and striving after wind." 
Ecclesiastes1:15 What is bent cannot be straightened, and what is lacking cannot be counted." 
Ecclesiastes1:16 I spoke within my heart, saying, “Behold, I have magnified and increased wisdom more than all who were over Jerusalem before me; and my heart has seen an abundance of wisdom and knowledge.”" 
Ecclesiastes1:17 And I gave my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and simpleminded folly; I came to know that this also is striving after wind. 
Ecclesiastes1:18 Because in much wisdom there is much vexation, and whoever increases knowledge increases pain." 
Ecclesiastes2:1 I said in my heart, “Come now, I will test you with gladness, so that you shall see good things.” And behold, it too was vanity." 
Ecclesiastes2:2 I said of laughter, “It is madness,” and of gladness, “What does it do?”" 
Ecclesiastes2:3 I explored with my heart how to stimulate my body with wine—while my heart was guiding me wisely—and how to seize simpleminded folly, until I could see where is this good for the sons of men in what they do under heaven the few days of their lives." 
Ecclesiastes2:4 I made my works great: I built houses for myself; I planted vineyards for myself; 
Ecclesiastes2:5 I made for myself gardens and parks, and I planted in them all kinds of fruit trees;" 
Ecclesiastes2:6 I made for myself pools of water from which to water a forest of growing trees. 
Ecclesiastes2:7 I bought male and female slaves, and I had homeborn slaves. Also I possessed flocks and herds larger than all who preceded me in Jerusalem." 
Ecclesiastes2:8 Also, I collected for myself silver and gold and the treasure of kings and provinces. I provided for myself male and female singers and the pleasures of the sons of men—many concubines." 
Ecclesiastes2:9 Then I became great and increased more than all who preceded me in Jerusalem. My wisdom also stood by me. 
Ecclesiastes2:10 All that my eyes asked for I did not refuse them. I did not withhold my heart from any gladness, for my heart was glad because of all my labor, and this was my reward for all my labor." 
Ecclesiastes2:11 Thus I turned to all my works which my hands had done and the labor which I had labored to do, and behold, all was vanity and striving after wind, and there was no advantage under the sun." 
Ecclesiastes2:12 So I turned to see wisdom, madness, and simpleminded folly. What will the man do who will come after the king except what has already been done?" 
Ecclesiastes2:13 And I saw that there is an advantage in wisdom over simpleminded folly as light has an advantage over darkness. 
Ecclesiastes2:14 The wise man’s eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. And yet I know that the fate of one becomes the fate of all of them." 
Ecclesiastes2:15 Then I said in my heart, “As is the fate of the fool, so will my fate be also. Why then have I been extremely wise?” So I said in my heart, “This too is vanity.”" 
Ecclesiastes2:16 For there is no remembrance of the wise man along with the fool forever, inasmuch as in the coming days all will be forgotten. And how the wise man dies with the fool!" 
Ecclesiastes2:17 So I hated life, for the work which had been done under the sun was grievous to me; because everything is vanity and striving after wind." 
Ecclesiastes2:18 Thus I hated all the fruit of my labor for which I had labored under the sun, for I must leave it to the man who will come after me." 
Ecclesiastes2:19 And who knows whether he will be a wise man or a man of simpleminded folly? Yet he will have power over all the fruit of my labor for which I have labored and for which I have acted wisely under the sun. This too is vanity. 
Ecclesiastes2:20 Therefore I turned my heart to despair of all my labor for which I had labored under the sun. 
Ecclesiastes2:21 When there is a man who has labored with wisdom, knowledge, and skill, then he gives his portion to one who has not labored with them. This too is vanity and a great evil." 
Ecclesiastes2:22 For what does a man get in all his labor and in the striving of his heart with which he labors under the sun? 
Ecclesiastes2:23 Because all his days his endeavor is painful and vexing; even at night his heart does not lie down. This too is vanity. 
Ecclesiastes2:24 There is nothing better for a man than to eat and drink and have his soul see good in his labor. This also I have seen that it is from the hand of God. 
Ecclesiastes2:25 For who can eat and who can have enjoyment outside of Him? 
Ecclesiastes2:26 For to a man who is good before Him, He has given wisdom and knowledge and gladness, while to the sinner He has given the endeavor of gathering and collecting so that he may give to one who is good before God. This too is vanity and striving after wind." 
Ecclesiastes3:1 There is an appointed time for everything. And there is a time for every matter under heaven— 
Ecclesiastes3:2 A time to give birth and a time to die; A time to plant and a time to uproot what is planted. 
Ecclesiastes3:3 A time to kill and a time to heal; A time to tear down and a time to build up. 
Ecclesiastes3:4 A time to weep and a time to laugh; A time to mourn and a time to dance. 
Ecclesiastes3:5 A time to throw stones and a time to gather stones; A time to embrace and a time to shun embracing. 
Ecclesiastes3:6 A time to search and a time to lose; A time to keep and a time to throw away. 
Ecclesiastes3:7 A time to tear apart and a time to sew together; A time to be silent and a time to speak. 
Ecclesiastes3:8 A time to love and a time to hate; A time for war and a time for peace. 
Ecclesiastes3:9 What advantage is there to the worker from that in which he labors? 
Ecclesiastes3:10 I have seen the endeavor which God has given the sons of men with which to occupy themselves. 
Ecclesiastes3:11 He has made everything beautiful in its time. He has also set eternity in their heart, yet so that man will not find out the work which God has done from the beginning even to the end." 
Ecclesiastes3:12 I know that there is nothing better for them than to be glad and to do good in one’s lifetime; 
Ecclesiastes3:13 moreover, that every man who eats and drinks and sees good in all his labor—it is the gift of God." 
Ecclesiastes3:14 I know that everything God does will be forever; there is nothing to add to it and there is nothing to take from it—God has so worked that men should fear Him. 
Ecclesiastes3:15 That which is has been already and that which will be has already been, yet God seeks what is pursued." 
Ecclesiastes3:16 Furthermore, I have seen under the sun that in the place of justice there is wickedness, and in the place of righteousness there is wickedness." 
Ecclesiastes3:17 I said in my heart, “God will judge both the righteous man and the wicked man,” for a time for every matter and for every work is there." 
Ecclesiastes3:18 I said in my heart concerning the sons of men, “God is testing them in order for them to see that they are but beasts.”" 
Ecclesiastes3:19 For the fate of the sons of men and the fate of beasts is the same fate for each of them. As one dies so dies the other, and they all have the same breath. So there is no advantage for man over beast, for all is vanity." 
Ecclesiastes3:20 All go to the same place. All came from the dust, and all return to the dust." 
Ecclesiastes3:21 Who knows that the breath of man ascends upward and the breath of the beast descends downward to the earth? 
Ecclesiastes3:22 I have seen that nothing is better than that man should be glad in his works, for that is his portion. For who will bring him to see what will occur after him?" 
Ecclesiastes4:1 Then I looked again at all the acts of oppression which were being done under the sun. And behold, I saw the tears of the oppressed and that they had no one to comfort them; and on the side of their oppressors was power, but they had no one to comfort them." 
Ecclesiastes4:2 So I lauded the dead who are already dead more than the living who are still living. 
Ecclesiastes4:3 But better off than both of them is the one who never has been, who has never seen the evil work that is done under the sun." 
Ecclesiastes4:4 I have seen that every labor and every success of the work is the result of jealousy between a man and his neighbor. This too is vanity and striving after wind. 
Ecclesiastes4:5 The fool folds his hands in embrace and consumes his own flesh. 
Ecclesiastes4:6 One hand full of rest is better than two fists full of labor and striving after wind. 
Ecclesiastes4:7 Then I looked again at vanity under the sun. 
Ecclesiastes4:8 There was a certain man without a second man, having neither a son nor a brother, yet there was no end to all his labor. Indeed, his eyes were not satisfied with riches—“And for whom am I laboring and depriving myself of good?” This too is vanity, and it is a grievous endeavor." 
Ecclesiastes4:9 Two are better than one because they have good wages for their labor. 
Ecclesiastes4:10 For if either of them falls, the one will lift up his companion. But woe to the one who falls when there is not a second one to lift him up." 
Ecclesiastes4:11 Furthermore, if two lie down together they keep warm, but how can one be warm alone?" 
Ecclesiastes4:12 And if one can overpower him who is alone, two can stand against him. A cord of three strands is not quickly torn apart." 
Ecclesiastes4:13 A poor yet wise lad is better than an old and foolish king who no longer knows how to receive warning. 
Ecclesiastes4:14 For he has come out of prison to become king, even though he was born poor in his kingdom." 
Ecclesiastes4:15 I have seen all the living who walk about under the sun go along with the second lad who stands in place of him. 
Ecclesiastes4:16 There is no end to all the people, to all who were before them, and even the ones who will come later will not be glad with him, for this too is vanity and striving after wind." 
Ecclesiastes5:1 Guard your steps as you go to the house of God and draw near to listen rather than to offer the sacrifice of fools; for they do not know they are doing evil. 
Ecclesiastes5:2 Do not be hasty with your mouth or impulsive in your heart to bring up a matter in the presence of God. For God is in heaven but you are on the earth; therefore let your words be few. 
Ecclesiastes5:3 For the dream comes through abundant endeavor and the voice of a fool through abundant words. 
Ecclesiastes5:4 When you make a vow to God, do not be late in paying it; for He takes no delight in fools. Pay what you vow!" 
Ecclesiastes5:5 It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay. 
Ecclesiastes5:6 Do not allow your mouth to cause your flesh to sin, and do not say in the presence of the messenger of God that it was a mistake. Why should God be angry on account of your voice and wreak destruction on the work of your hands?" 
Ecclesiastes5:7 For in many dreams and vanities are many words. Rather, fear God." 
Ecclesiastes5:8 If you see oppression of the poor and robbery of justice and righteousness in the province, do not be astonished over the matter; for a lofty one keeps watch over another lofty one, and there are loftier ones over them." 
Ecclesiastes5:9 But the advantage of the land in everything is this—a king committed to a cultivated field. 
Ecclesiastes5:10 He who loves money will not be satisfied with money, nor he who loves abundance with its produce. This too is vanity." 
Ecclesiastes5:11 When good things increase, those who consume them increase. So what is the success to their masters except to look on with their eyes?" 
Ecclesiastes5:12 The sleep of the laboring man is sweet, whether he eats little or much; but the satisfaction of the rich man does not allow him to sleep." 
Ecclesiastes5:13 There is a sickening evil which I have seen under the sun: riches being hoarded by their master to his own evil demise. 
Ecclesiastes5:14 And those riches were lost through a bad endeavor; and he became the father of a son, but there was nothing in his hand for him." 
Ecclesiastes5:15 As he had come naked from his mother’s womb, so will he return as he came. He will carry nothing from the fruit of his labor that he can bring in his hand." 
Ecclesiastes5:16 This also is a sickening evil—exactly as a man came, so will he go. So what is the advantage to him who labors for the wind?" 
Ecclesiastes5:17 Also, all his days he eats in darkness with much vexation, and his sickness and anger." 
Ecclesiastes5:18 Here is what I have seen to be good, which is beautiful: to eat, to drink, and to see good in all one’s labor in which he labors under the sun during the few days of his life which God has given him; for this is his portion." 
Ecclesiastes5:19 Furthermore, as for every man to whom God has given riches and wealth, He has also empowered him to eat from them and to take up his portion and be glad in his labor; this is the gift of God." 
Ecclesiastes5:20 For he will not remember much the days of his life because God allows him to occupy himself with the gladness of his heart. 
Ecclesiastes6:1 There is an evil which I have seen under the sun and it is prevalent among men— 
Ecclesiastes6:2 a man to whom God gives riches and wealth and honor so that his soul lacks nothing of all that he desires; yet God does not empower him to eat from them, for a foreigner eats from them. This is vanity and a sickening evil." 
Ecclesiastes6:3 If a man becomes the father of one hundred children and lives many years, however many the days of his years may be, but his soul is not satisfied with good things, and he does not even have a proper burial, then I say, “Better the miscarriage than he," 
Ecclesiastes6:4 for that one comes in vanity and goes into darkness; and that one’s name is covered in darkness. 
Ecclesiastes6:5 Indeed, that one never sees the sun and never knows anything; that one has more rest than he." 
Ecclesiastes6:6 Even if the other man lives one thousand years twice and does not see good things—do not all go to the same place?” 
Ecclesiastes6:7 All a man’s labor is for his mouth, and yet the soul is not fulfilled." 
Ecclesiastes6:8 For what advantage does the wise man have over the fool? What advantage does the afflicted man have, knowing how to walk before the living?" 
Ecclesiastes6:9 What the eyes see is better than what the soul goes after. This too is vanity and striving after wind. 
Ecclesiastes6:10 Whatever exists has already been named, and it is known what man is; and he cannot dispute with him who is stronger than he is." 
Ecclesiastes6:11 For there are many words which increase vanity. What then is the advantage to a man? 
Ecclesiastes6:12 For who knows what is good for a man during his lifetime, during the few days of his vain life? He will make do with them like a shadow. For who can tell a man what will be after him under the sun?" 
Ecclesiastes7:1 Better is a good name than good oil, And better is the day of one’s death than the day of one’s birth." 
Ecclesiastes7:2 Better to go to a house of mourning Than to go to a house of feasting Because that is the end of all mankind, And the living puts this in his heart." 
Ecclesiastes7:3 Better is vexation than laughter, For when a face is sad a heart may be merry." 
Ecclesiastes7:4 The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, While the heart of fools is in the house of gladness." 
Ecclesiastes7:5 Better to listen to the rebuke of a wise man Than for one to listen to the song of fools. 
Ecclesiastes7:6 For as the crackling sound of thorn bushes under a pot, So is the laughter of the fool; And this too is vanity." 
Ecclesiastes7:7 For oppression gives a wise man over to madness, And a bribe destroys the heart." 
Ecclesiastes7:8 Better is the end of a matter than its beginning; Better is patience of spirit than haughtiness of spirit. 
Ecclesiastes7:9 Do not be eager in your spirit to be vexed, For vexation rests in the bosom of fools." 
Ecclesiastes7:10 Do not say, “Why is it that the former days were better than these?” For it is not from wisdom that you ask about this." 
Ecclesiastes7:11 Wisdom along with an inheritance is good And an advantage to those who see the sun. 
Ecclesiastes7:12 For wisdom is a shadow of protection as money is a shadow of protection, And the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the lives of its masters." 
Ecclesiastes7:13 See the work of God, For who is able to straighten what He has bent?" 
Ecclesiastes7:14 In the day when there is good be of good cheer, But in the day when there is evil see— God has made the one as well as the other So that man will not find out anything that will be after him." 
Ecclesiastes7:15 I have seen everything during my days of vanity; there is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who prolongs his life in his evildoing." 
Ecclesiastes7:16 Do not be excessively righteous, and do not be overly wise. Why should you make yourself desolate?" 
Ecclesiastes7:17 Do not be excessively wicked, and do not be a simpleminded fool. Why should you die before your time?" 
Ecclesiastes7:18 It is good that you seize one thing and also not let go of the other; for the one who fears God comes forth with both of them. 
Ecclesiastes7:19 Wisdom strengthens a wise man more than ten men with power who are in a city. 
Ecclesiastes7:20 Indeed, there is not a righteous man on earth who continually does good and who never sins." 
Ecclesiastes7:21 Also, do not give your heart to all words which are spoken, so that you will not hear your slave cursing you." 
Ecclesiastes7:22 For your heart also knows that you likewise have many times cursed others. 
Ecclesiastes7:23 I tested all this with wisdom, and I said, “I will be wise,” but it was far from me." 
Ecclesiastes7:24 What has been is far away and exceedingly deep. Who can find it? 
Ecclesiastes7:25 I turned my heart to know, to explore, and to seek wisdom and an explanation, and to know the wickedness of foolishness and the simpleminded folly of madness." 
Ecclesiastes7:26 And I found more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets, whose hands are chains. One who is good before God will escape from her, but the sinner will be captured by her." 
Ecclesiastes7:27 “See, I have found this,” says the Preacher, “adding one thing to another to find an explanation," 
Ecclesiastes7:28 which my soul still seeks but has not found. I have found one man out of a thousand, but I have not found a woman among all these." 
Ecclesiastes7:29 See, I have found only this, that God made men upright, but they have sought out many devices.”" 
Ecclesiastes8:1 Who is like the wise man and who knows the interpretation of a matter? A man’s wisdom illumines his face and causes his stern face to beam. 
Ecclesiastes8:2 I say, “Keep the command of the king because of the sworn oath before God." 
Ecclesiastes8:3 Do not be in a hurry to go from his presence. Do not stand in an evil matter, for he will do whatever he pleases.”" 
Ecclesiastes8:4 Since the word of the king is powerful, who will say to him, “What are you doing?”" 
Ecclesiastes8:5 He who keeps a royal command experiences no evil thing, for a wise heart knows the proper time and custom." 
Ecclesiastes8:6 For there is a proper time and custom for every matter, though a man’s trouble is multiplied upon him." 
Ecclesiastes8:7 If no one knows what will happen, who can tell him when it will happen?" 
Ecclesiastes8:8 There is no man who has power to restrain the wind with the wind, and there is none who has power over the day of death; and there is no discharge in the time of war, and wickedness will not provide escape to its masters." 
Ecclesiastes8:9 All this I have seen and given my heart to every work that has been done under the sun wherein a man has power over another man to his calamity. 
Ecclesiastes8:10 So then, I have seen the wicked buried, those who used to go in and out from the holy place, and they are soon forgotten in the city where they did thus. This too is vanity." 
Ecclesiastes8:11 Because the sentence against an evil work is not executed quickly, therefore the hearts of the sons of men among them are given fully to do evil." 
Ecclesiastes8:12 Although a sinner does evil a hundred times and may prolong his life, still I know that it will be well for those who fear God, who fear Him openly." 
Ecclesiastes8:13 But it will not be well for the wicked man, and he will not prolong his days like a shadow, because he does not fear God openly." 
Ecclesiastes8:14 There is vanity which is done on the earth, that is, there are righteous men to whom it happens according to the works of the wicked. On the other hand, there are wicked men to whom it happens according to the works of the righteous. I say that this too is vanity." 
Ecclesiastes8:15 So I laud gladness, for there is nothing good for a man under the sun except to eat and to drink and to be merry, and this will join with him in his labor throughout the days of his life which God has given him under the sun." 
Ecclesiastes8:16 When I gave my heart to know wisdom and to see the endeavor which has been done on the earth (even though one never sees sleep with his eyes day or night)," 
Ecclesiastes8:17 and I saw every work of God, I concluded that man cannot find out the work which has been done under the sun. Even though man should seek laboriously, he will not find it out; and though the wise man should say, “I know,” he cannot find it out." 
Ecclesiastes9:1 For I have given all this to my heart and explain it that righteous men, wise men, and their service are in the hand of God. Man does not know whether it will be love or hatred; anything may be before him." 
Ecclesiastes9:2 It is the same for all. There is one fate for the righteous and for the wicked; for the good, for the clean and for the unclean; for the man who offers a sacrifice and for the one who does not sacrifice. As the good man is, so is the sinner; as the swearer is, so is the one who is afraid to swear." 
Ecclesiastes9:3 This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one fate for all. Furthermore, the hearts of the sons of men are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts throughout their lives. Afterwards they go to the dead." 
Ecclesiastes9:4 For whoever is joined with all the living, there is confidence; surely a live dog is better than a dead lion." 
Ecclesiastes9:5 For the living know they will die; but the dead do not know anything, nor have they any longer a reward, for the memory of them is forgotten." 
Ecclesiastes9:6 Indeed their love, their hate, and their zeal have already perished, and they will never again have a portion in all that is done under the sun." 
Ecclesiastes9:7 Go then, eat your bread in gladness and drink your wine with a merry heart; for God has already accepted your works." 
Ecclesiastes9:8 Let your clothes be white all the time, and let not oil be lacking on your head." 
Ecclesiastes9:9 See life with the woman whom you love all the days of your vain life, which He has given to you under the sun—all the days of your vanity; for this is your portion in life and in your labor in which you have labored under the sun." 
Ecclesiastes9:10 Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might; for there is no working or explaining or knowledge or wisdom in Sheol where you are going." 
Ecclesiastes9:11 I again saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift and the battle is not to the mighty, and neither is bread to the wise nor riches to the discerning nor favor to men who know; for time and misfortune overtake them all." 
Ecclesiastes9:12 Moreover, man does not know his time: like fish seized in an evil net and birds seized in a trap, so the sons of men are ensnared at an evil time when it suddenly falls on them." 
Ecclesiastes9:13 Also this I came to see as wisdom under the sun, and it was great to me." 
Ecclesiastes9:14 There was a small city with few men in it, and a great king came to it, surrounded it, and built large siegeworks against it." 
Ecclesiastes9:15 But there was found in it a poor wise man, and he provided a way of escape for the city by his wisdom. Yet no one remembered that poor man." 
Ecclesiastes9:16 So I said, “Wisdom is better than strength.” But the wisdom of the poor man is despised, and his words are not heard." 
Ecclesiastes9:17 The words of the wise heard in restfulness are better than the shouting of a ruler among fools. 
Ecclesiastes9:18 Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroys much good." 
Ecclesiastes10:1 Dead flies make a perfumer’s oil stink, so a little simpleminded folly is weightier than wisdom and honor." 
Ecclesiastes10:2 A wise man’s heart directs him toward the right, but the foolish man’s heart directs him toward the left." 
Ecclesiastes10:3 Even when the simpleminded fool walks along the road, his heart lacks wisdom, and he says to all that he is a simpleminded fool." 
Ecclesiastes10:4 If the ruler’s temper rises against you, do not abandon your position, because calmness causes great offenses to be abandoned." 
Ecclesiastes10:5 There is an evil I have seen under the sun, like a mistake which goes forth from the one in power—" 
Ecclesiastes10:6 folly is set in many exalted places while rich men sit in humble places. 
Ecclesiastes10:7 I have seen slaves riding on horses and princes walking like slaves on the land. 
Ecclesiastes10:8 He who digs a pit may fall into it, and a serpent may bite him who breaks through a wall." 
Ecclesiastes10:9 He who quarries stones may be hurt by them, and he who splits logs may be endangered by them." 
Ecclesiastes10:10 If the axe is dull and he does not sharpen its edge, then he must exert more strength. Wisdom has the advantage of giving success." 
Ecclesiastes10:11 If the serpent bites before being charmed, there is no advantage for the charmer." 
Ecclesiastes10:12 Words from the mouth of a wise man are gracious, but the lips of a fool swallow him up;" 
Ecclesiastes10:13 the beginning of the words of his mouth is simpleminded folly, and the end of what comes from his mouth is evil madness." 
Ecclesiastes10:14 Yet the simpleminded fool multiplies words. No man knows what will happen, and who can tell him what will come after him?" 
Ecclesiastes10:15 The labor of a fool so wearies him that he does not even know how to go to a city. 
Ecclesiastes10:16 Woe to you, O land, whose king is a young man and whose princes eat in the morning." 
Ecclesiastes10:17 Blessed are you, O land, whose king is of nobility and whose princes eat at the appropriate time—for might and not for drinking." 
Ecclesiastes10:18 Through indolence the beams sag, and through slack hands the house leaks." 
Ecclesiastes10:19 Men prepare bread for laughter, and wine makes life glad, and money is the answer to everything." 
Ecclesiastes10:20 Furthermore, in your bedchamber do not curse a king, and in your sleeping rooms do not curse a rich man, for a bird of the sky will bring the sound and the winged creature will tell the matter." 
Ecclesiastes11:1 Cast your bread on the surface of the waters, for you will find it after many days." 
Ecclesiastes11:2 Divide your portion to seven, or even to eight, for you do not know what calamity may occur on the earth." 
Ecclesiastes11:3 If the clouds are full, they empty the rain upon the earth; and whether a tree falls toward the south or toward the north, wherever the tree falls, there it lies." 
Ecclesiastes11:4 He who watches the wind will not sow, and he who looks at the clouds will not reap." 
Ecclesiastes11:5 Just as you do not know the path of the wind and how bones are formed in the womb of the pregnant woman, so you do not know the work of God who works all things." 
Ecclesiastes11:6 Sow your seed in the morning and do not put your hands down in the evening, for you do not know whether morning or evening sowing will succeed, or whether both of them alike will be good." 
Ecclesiastes11:7 The light is sweet, and it is good for the eyes to see the sun." 
Ecclesiastes11:8 Indeed, if a man should live many years, let him be glad in them all, and let him remember the days of darkness, for they will be many. Everything that is to come will be vanity." 
Ecclesiastes11:9 Be glad, young man, during your childhood, and let your heart be merry during the days of young manhood. And walk in the ways of your heart and in the sights of your eyes. Yet know that God will bring you to judgment for all these things." 
Ecclesiastes11:10 So, remove vexation from your heart and put away evil from your flesh because childhood and the prime of life are vanity." 
Ecclesiastes12:1 Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil days happen and the years draw near in which you will say, “I have no delight in them”;" 
Ecclesiastes12:2 before the sun and the light, the moon and the stars are darkened, and clouds return after the rain;" 
Ecclesiastes12:3 in the day that the watchmen of the house tremble, and valiant men bend down, the grinding ones stand idle because they are few, and those who look through windows grow dark;" 
Ecclesiastes12:4 and the doors on the street are shut as the sound of the grinding mill is low, and one will arise at the sound of the bird, and all the daughters of song will sing softly." 
Ecclesiastes12:5 Furthermore, men are afraid of a high place and of terrors on the road; the almond tree blooms, the grasshopper drags itself along, and the caperberry is ineffective. For man goes to his eternal home, but the mourners go about in the street." 
Ecclesiastes12:6 Remember Him before the silver cord is snapped and the golden bowl is crushed, the pitcher by the spring is broken and the wheel at the cistern is crushed;" 
Ecclesiastes12:7 then the dust will return to the earth as it was, and the spirit will return to God who gave it." 
Ecclesiastes12:8 “Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher, “all is vanity!”" 
Ecclesiastes12:9 In addition to being a wise man, the Preacher also taught the people knowledge; and he pondered, searched out, and arranged many proverbs." 
Ecclesiastes12:10 The Preacher sought to find delightful words and words of truth written uprightly. 
Ecclesiastes12:11 The words of wise men are like goads, and masters of these collections are like well-driven nails; they are given by one Shepherd." 
Ecclesiastes12:12 But in addition to this, my son, be warned: the making of many books is endless, and much devotion to books is wearying to the flesh." 
Ecclesiastes12:13 The end of the matter, all that has been heard: fear God and keep His commandments, because this is the end of the matter for all mankind." 
Ecclesiastes12:14 For God will bring every work to judgment, everything which is hidden, whether it is good or evil." 
SongOfSongs1:1 The Song of Songs, which is Solomon’s." 
SongOfSongs1:2 “May he kiss me with the kisses of his mouth! For your love is better than wine. 
SongOfSongs1:3 Your oils have a pleasing fragrance, Your name is like purified oil; Therefore the maidens love you." 
SongOfSongs1:4 Draw me after you and let us run together! The king has brought me into his chambers.” “We will rejoice in you and be glad; We will extol your love more than wine. Rightly do they love you.” 
SongOfSongs1:5 “I am black but lovely, O daughters of Jerusalem, Like the tents of Kedar, Like the curtains of Solomon." 
SongOfSongs1:6 Do not look at me because I am swarthy, For the sun has burned me. My mother’s sons were angry with me; They made me caretaker of the vineyards, But I have not taken care of my own vineyard." 
SongOfSongs1:7 Tell me, O you whom my soul loves, Where do you shepherd your flock, Where do you make it lie down at noon? For why should I be like one who veils herself Beside the flocks of your companions?”" 
SongOfSongs1:8 “If you yourself do not know, Most beautiful among women, Go forth on the trail of the flock And pasture your young goats By the dwellings of the shepherds." 
SongOfSongs1:9 “To a mare of mine among the chariots of Pharaoh I compare you, O my darling." 
SongOfSongs1:10 Your cheeks are lovely with ornaments, Your neck with strings of beads.”" 
SongOfSongs1:11 “We will make for you ornaments of gold With beads of silver.” 
SongOfSongs1:12 “While the king was at his banqueting table, My perfume gave forth its fragrance." 
SongOfSongs1:13 My beloved is to me a pouch of myrrh Which lies all night between my breasts. 
SongOfSongs1:14 My beloved is to me a cluster of henna blossoms In the vineyards of Engedi.” 
SongOfSongs1:15 “Behold, you are beautiful, my darling, Behold, you are beautiful! Your eyes are like doves.”" 
SongOfSongs1:16 “Behold, you are handsome, my beloved, Indeed, so pleasant! Indeed, our couch is luxuriant!" 
SongOfSongs1:17 The beams of our houses are cedars, Our rafters, cypresses." 
SongOfSongs2:1 “I am the rose of Sharon, The lily of the valleys.”" 
SongOfSongs2:2 “Like a lily among the thorns, So is my darling among the daughters.”" 
SongOfSongs2:3 “Like an apple tree among the trees of the forest, So is my beloved among the sons. In his shade I had great desire and sat down, And his fruit was sweet to my taste." 
SongOfSongs2:4 He has brought me to his house of banqueting, And his banner over me is love." 
SongOfSongs2:5 Sustain me with raisin cakes, Refresh me with apples, Because I am lovesick." 
SongOfSongs2:6 Let his left hand be under my head And his right hand embrace me.” 
SongOfSongs2:7 “I call you to solemnly swear, O daughters of Jerusalem, By the gazelles or by the hinds of the field, That you do not arouse or awaken my love Until she pleases.”" 
SongOfSongs2:8 “The voice of my beloved! Behold, he is coming, Leaping on the mountains, Jumping on the hills!" 
SongOfSongs2:9 My beloved is like a gazelle or a young stag. Behold, he is standing behind our wall; He gazes through the windows; He is peering through the lattice." 
SongOfSongs2:10 “My beloved answered and said to me, ‘Arise, my darling, my beautiful one, And come along." 
SongOfSongs2:11 For behold, the winter is past, The rain is over; it is gone." 
SongOfSongs2:12 The flowers have appeared in the land; The time for pruning has arrived; And the voice of the turtledove has been heard in our land. 
SongOfSongs2:13 The fig tree has ripened its figs, And the vines in blossom have given forth their fragrance. Arise, my darling, my beautiful one, And come along!’”" 
SongOfSongs2:14 “O my dove, in the clefts of the rock, In the secret place of the steep pathway, Let me see your appearance, Let me hear your voice; For your voice is sweet, And your appearance is lovely.”" 
SongOfSongs2:15 “Seize the foxes for us, The little foxes that are wreaking destruction on the vineyards, While our vineyards are in blossom.”" 
SongOfSongs2:16 “My beloved is mine, and I am his, He who shepherds his flock among the lilies." 
SongOfSongs2:17 Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, Turn, my beloved, and be like a gazelle Or a young stag on the mountains of Bether.”" 
SongOfSongs3:1 “On my bed night after night I sought him Whom my soul loves; I sought him but did not find him. 
SongOfSongs3:2 ‘I must arise now and go about the city; In the streets and in the squares I must seek him whom my soul loves.’ I sought him but did not find him. 
SongOfSongs3:3 The watchmen who go about the city found me, And I said, ‘Have you seen him whom my soul loves?’" 
SongOfSongs3:4 Scarcely had I passed them by When I found him whom my soul loves; I seized him and would not let him go Until I had brought him to my mother’s house, And into the chamber of her who conceived me.”" 
SongOfSongs3:5 “I call you to solemnly swear, O daughters of Jerusalem, By the gazelles or by the hinds of the field, That you do not arouse or awaken my love Until she pleases.”" 
SongOfSongs3:6 “Who is this coming up from the wilderness Like columns of smoke, As rising incense of myrrh and frankincense, With all scented powders of the merchant?" 
SongOfSongs3:7 Behold, it is the traveling couch of Solomon; Sixty mighty men around it, Of the mighty men of Israel." 
SongOfSongs3:8 All of them are those who seize the sword, Learned in war; Each man has his sword at his side, Guarding against the dreadful things of the night." 
SongOfSongs3:9 King Solomon has made for himself a sedan chair From the timber of Lebanon. 
SongOfSongs3:10 He made its posts of silver, Its back of gold And its seat of purple fabric, With its interior inlaid with love By the daughters of Jerusalem." 
SongOfSongs3:11 Go forth and see, O daughters of Zion, King Solomon with the crown With which his mother has crowned him On the day of his wedding, And on the day of his gladness of heart.”" 
SongOfSongs4:1 “Behold, you are beautiful, my darling, Behold, you are beautiful! Your eyes are like doves behind your veil; Your hair is like a flock of goats That have leapt down from Mount Gilead." 
SongOfSongs4:2 Your teeth are like a flock of newly shorn ewes Which have come up from their washing, All of which bear twins, And not one among them has lost her young." 
SongOfSongs4:3 Your lips are like a scarlet thread, And your mouth is lovely. Your temples are like a slice of a pomegranate Behind your veil." 
SongOfSongs4:4 Your neck is like the tower of David, Built with rows of stones On which are hung one thousand shields, All the small shields of the mighty men." 
SongOfSongs4:5 Your two breasts are like two fawns, Twins of a gazelle Which feed among the lilies." 
SongOfSongs4:6 Until the day breathes And the shadows flee, I will go my way to the mountain of myrrh And to the hill of frankincense." 
SongOfSongs4:7 “You are altogether beautiful, my darling, And there is no blemish in you." 
SongOfSongs4:8 Come with me from Lebanon, my bride, May you come with me from Lebanon. Journey down from the top of Amana, From the top of Senir and Hermon, From the dens of lions, From the mountains of leopards." 
SongOfSongs4:9 You have made my heart beat faster, my sister, my bride; You have made my heart beat faster with a single glance of your eyes, With a single strand of your necklace." 
SongOfSongs4:10 How beautiful is your love, my sister, my bride! How much better is your love than wine, And the fragrance of your oils Than all kinds of spices!" 
SongOfSongs4:11 Your lips, my bride, drip honey from the comb; Honey and milk are under your tongue, And the fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of Lebanon." 
SongOfSongs4:12 A garden locked is my sister, my bride, A rock garden locked, a spring sealed up." 
SongOfSongs4:13 Your shoots are an orchard of pomegranates With choice fruits, henna with nard plants," 
SongOfSongs4:14 Nard and saffron, calamus and cinnamon, With all the trees of frankincense, Myrrh and aloes, along with all the finest spices." 
SongOfSongs4:15 You are a garden spring, A well of fresh water, And streams flowing from Lebanon.”" 
SongOfSongs4:16 “Awake, O north wind, And come, wind of the south; Make my garden breathe out fragrance, Let its spices flow forth. May my beloved come into his garden And eat its choice fruits!”" 
SongOfSongs5:1 “I have come into my garden, my sister, my bride; I have picked my myrrh along with my balsam. I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have drunk my wine with my milk. Eat, friends; Drink and imbibe deeply, O lovers.”" 
SongOfSongs5:2 “I was asleep, but my heart was awake. A voice! My beloved was knocking: ‘Open to me, my sister, my darling, My dove, my perfect one! For my head is full of dew, My locks with the damp of the night.’" 
SongOfSongs5:3 I have taken off my long‑sleeved garment, How can I put it on again? I have washed my feet, How can I dirty them again?" 
SongOfSongs5:4 My beloved sent forth his hand through the opening, And my feelings moaned for him." 
SongOfSongs5:5 I arose to open to my beloved; And my hands dripped with myrrh, And my fingers with liquid myrrh, On the handles of the lock." 
SongOfSongs5:6 I opened to my beloved, But my beloved had turned away and passed by! My soul went out to him as he spoke. I searched for him, but I did not find him; I called him, but he did not answer me." 
SongOfSongs5:7 The watchmen who go about in the city found me, They struck me and wounded me; The guardsmen of the walls took away my shawl from me." 
SongOfSongs5:8 I call you to solemnly swear, O daughters of Jerusalem, If you find my beloved, What will you tell him? Tell him that I am sick with love.”" 
SongOfSongs5:9 “What is your beloved that he is more than any other beloved, O most beautiful among women? What is your beloved that he is more than any other beloved, That thus you call us to solemnly swear?”" 
SongOfSongs5:10 “My beloved is dazzling and ruddy, Lifted up as a banner among ten thousand." 
SongOfSongs5:11 His head is like gold, fine gold; His locks are like clusters of dates And black as a raven." 
SongOfSongs5:12 His eyes are like doves Beside streams of water, Washed in milk, And sitting in their setting." 
SongOfSongs5:13 His cheeks are like a bed of spices, Towers of sweet‑scented herbs; His lips are lilies Dripping with liquid myrrh." 
SongOfSongs5:14 His hands are rods of gold Set with beryl; His abdomen is a plate of ivory Inlaid with sapphires. 
SongOfSongs5:15 His legs are pillars of marble Set on bases of fine gold; His appearance is like Lebanon Choice as the cedars. 
SongOfSongs5:16 His mouth is full of sweetness. And he is wholly desirable. This is my beloved and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.”" 
SongOfSongs6:1 “Where has your beloved gone, O most beautiful among women? Where has your beloved turned, That we may seek him with you?”" 
SongOfSongs6:2 “My beloved has gone down to his garden, To the beds of spices, To shepherd his flock in the gardens And gather lilies." 
SongOfSongs6:3 I am my beloved’s and my beloved is mine, He who shepherds his flock among the lilies.”" 
SongOfSongs6:4 “You are as beautiful as Tirzah, my darling, As lovely as Jerusalem, As majestic as an army with banners." 
SongOfSongs6:5 Turn your eyes away from me, For they have overwhelmed me; Your hair is like a flock of goats That have leapt down from Gilead." 
SongOfSongs6:6 Your teeth are like a flock of ewes Which have come up from their washing, All of which bear twins, And not one among them has lost her young." 
SongOfSongs6:7 Your temples are like a slice of a pomegranate Behind your veil. 
SongOfSongs6:8 There are sixty queens and eighty concubines, And maidens without number;" 
SongOfSongs6:9 She is the only one—my dove, my perfect one; She is the only one of her mother; She is the pure one of her who bore her. The daughters saw her and called her blessed, The queens and the concubines also, and they praised her, saying," 
SongOfSongs6:10 ‘Who is this that looks down like the dawn, As beautiful as the full moon, As pure as the sun, As majestic as an army with banners?’" 
SongOfSongs6:11 I went down to the garden of nut trees To see the blossoms of the valley, To see whether the vine had flourished Or the pomegranates had bloomed." 
SongOfSongs6:12 I did not know it, but my soul set me Among the chariots of my noble people.”" 
SongOfSongs6:13 “Come back, come back, O Shulammite; Come back, come back, that we may behold you!” “Why should you behold the Shulammite, As at the dance of the two companies?" 
SongOfSongs7:1 “How beautiful are your feet in sandals, O noble’s daughter! The curves of your thighs are like ornaments, The work of the hands of an artist." 
SongOfSongs7:2 Your navel is like a round basin Which never lacks mixed wine; Your belly is like a heap of wheat Encircled with lilies. 
SongOfSongs7:3 Your two breasts are like two fawns, Twins of a gazelle." 
SongOfSongs7:4 Your neck is like a tower of ivory, Your eyes like the pools in Heshbon By the gate of Bath‑rabbim; Your nose is like the tower of Lebanon, Which faces toward Damascus." 
SongOfSongs7:5 Your head crowns you like Carmel, And the flowing locks of your head are like purple threads; The king is captivated by your tresses." 
SongOfSongs7:6 How beautiful and how pleasant you are, My love, with all your pleasures!" 
SongOfSongs7:7 Your stature is like a palm tree, And your breasts are like its clusters." 
SongOfSongs7:8 I said, ‘I will climb the palm tree; I will seize its fruit stalks.’ Oh, may your breasts be like clusters of the vine, And the fragrance of your breath like apples," 
SongOfSongs7:9 And your mouth like the best wine!” “It goes down smoothly for my beloved, Flowing gently through the lips of those who fall asleep." 
SongOfSongs7:10 “I am my beloved’s, And his desire is for me." 
SongOfSongs7:11 Come, my beloved, let us go out into the fields, Let us spend the night in the villages." 
SongOfSongs7:12 Let us rise early and go to the vineyards; Let us see whether the vine has flourished And its blossoms have opened, And whether the pomegranates have bloomed. There I will give you my love." 
SongOfSongs7:13 The mandrakes have given forth fragrance; And over our doors are all choice fruits, Both new and old, Which I have treasured up for you, my beloved." 
SongOfSongs8:1 “Oh that you were like a brother to me Who nursed at my mother’s breasts. If I found you outside, I would kiss you; No one would despise me, either." 
SongOfSongs8:2 I would lead you and bring you Into the house of my mother, who used to teach me; I would give you spiced wine to drink from the sweet wine of my pomegranates." 
SongOfSongs8:3 Let his left hand be under my head And his right hand embrace me.” 
SongOfSongs8:4 “I call you to solemnly swear, O daughters of Jerusalem, Why should you arouse or awaken my love Until she pleases?”" 
SongOfSongs8:5 “Who is this coming up from the wilderness Leaning on her beloved?” “Beneath the apple tree I awakened you; There your mother was in labor with you; There she was in labor and gave you birth. 
SongOfSongs8:6 Put me like a seal over your heart, Like a seal on your arm. For love is as strong as death, Jealousy is as severe as Sheol; Its flashes are flashes of fire, The very flame of Yah." 
SongOfSongs8:7 Many waters cannot quench love, Nor will rivers overflow it; If a man were to give all the riches of his house for love, It would be utterly despised.”" 
SongOfSongs8:8 “We have a little sister, And she has no breasts; What shall we do for our sister On the day when she is spoken for?" 
SongOfSongs8:9 If she is a wall, We will build on her a battlement of silver; But if she is a door, We will barricade her with planks of cedar.”" 
SongOfSongs8:10 “I was a wall, and my breasts were like towers; Then I became in his eyes as one who finds peace." 
SongOfSongs8:11 Solomon had a vineyard at Baal‑hamon; He gave the vineyard to caretakers. Each one was to bring one thousand shekels of silver for its fruit. 
SongOfSongs8:12 My very own vineyard is before me; The thousand shekels are for you, Solomon, And two hundred are for those who take care of its fruit.”" 
SongOfSongs8:13 “O you who sit in the gardens, My companions are giving heed to your voice— Let me hear it!”" 
SongOfSongs8:14 “Hurry, my beloved, And be like a gazelle or a young stag On the mountains of spices.”" 
Isaiah1:1 The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz concerning Judah and Jerusalem, which he beheld in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah." 
Isaiah1:2 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth; For Yahweh speaks, “Sons I have reared and raised up, But they have transgressed against Me." 
Isaiah1:3 An ox knows its owner, And a donkey its master’s manger, But Israel does not know; My people do not perceive.”" 
Isaiah1:4 Alas, sinful nation, People heavy with iniquity, Seed of evildoers, Sons who act corruptly! They have forsaken Yahweh; They have spurned the Holy One of Israel; They have become estranged from Him." 
Isaiah1:5 Where will you be stricken again, As you continue in your rebellion? The whole head is sick, And the whole heart is faint." 
Isaiah1:6 From the sole of the foot even to the head There is nothing sound in it, Only bruises, wounds, and raw wounds, Not pressed out, not bandaged, Not softened with oil." 
Isaiah1:7 Your land is desolate; Your cities are burned with fire; Your fields—strangers are devouring them in your presence; It is desolate, as overthrown by strangers." 
Isaiah1:8 The daughter of Zion is left like a shelter in a vineyard, Like a watchman’s hut in a cucumber field, like a besieged city." 
Isaiah1:9 Unless Yahweh of hosts Had left us a few survivors, We would be like Sodom, We would be like Gomorrah." 
Isaiah1:10 Hear the word of Yahweh, You rulers of Sodom; Give ear to the law of our God, You people of Gomorrah." 
Isaiah1:11 “What are your multiplied sacrifices to Me?” Says Yahweh. “I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams And the fat of fed cattle; And in the blood of bulls, lambs, or goats I take no pleasure." 
Isaiah1:12 When you come to appear before Me, Who requires of you this trampling of My courts?" 
Isaiah1:13 Bring your worthless offerings no longer, Incense is an abomination to Me. New moon and sabbath, the calling of convocation— I cannot endure wickedness and the solemn assembly." 
Isaiah1:14 My soul hates your new moon festivals and your appointed times, They have become a burden to Me; I am weary of bearing them." 
Isaiah1:15 So when you spread out your hands in prayer, I will hide My eyes from you; Indeed, even though you multiply prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood." 
Isaiah1:16 “Wash yourselves, purify yourselves; Remove the evil of your deeds from before My eyes. Cease to do evil," 
Isaiah1:17 Learn to do good; Seek justice, Reprove the ruthless, Execute justice for the orphan, Plead for the widow." 
Isaiah1:18 “Come now, and let us reason together,” Says Yahweh, “Though your sins are as scarlet, They will be as white as snow; Though they are red like crimson, They will be like wool." 
Isaiah1:19 If you are willing and obey, You will eat the best of the land;" 
Isaiah1:20 But if you refuse and rebel, You will be eaten by the sword.” For the mouth of Yahweh has spoken." 
Isaiah1:21 How the faithful city has become a harlot, She who was full of justice! Righteousness once lodged in her, But now murderers." 
Isaiah1:22 Your silver has become dross, Your drink diluted with water." 
Isaiah1:23 Your rulers are rebels And companions of thieves; Everyone loves a bribe And pursues rewards. They do not execute justice for the orphan, Nor does the widow’s plea come before them." 
Isaiah1:24 Therefore the Lord, Yahweh of hosts, The Mighty One of Israel, declares, “Ah, I will be comforted concerning My adversaries, And I will avenge Myself on My enemies." 
Isaiah1:25 I will also turn My hand against you, And will smelt away your dross as with lye And will remove all your alloy." 
Isaiah1:26 Then I will have your judges return as at the first, And your counselors as at the beginning; Afterwards you will be called the city of righteousness, A faithful town.”" 
Isaiah1:27 Zion will be redeemed with justice And her repentant ones with righteousness. 
Isaiah1:28 But transgressors and sinners will be broken together, And those who forsake Yahweh will come to an end." 
Isaiah1:29 For you will be ashamed of the oaks which you have desired, And you will be humiliated because of the gardens which you have chosen." 
Isaiah1:30 For you will be like an oak whose leaf withers away Or as a garden that has no water. 
Isaiah1:31 And the strong man will become tinder, His work also a spark. Thus they shall both burn together, And there will be none to quench them." 
Isaiah2:1 The word which Isaiah the son of Amoz beheld concerning Judah and Jerusalem. 
Isaiah2:2 Now it will be that In the last days The mountain of the house of Yahweh Will be established as the head of the mountains, And will be lifted up above the hills; And all the nations will stream to it." 
Isaiah2:3 And many peoples will come and say, “Come, let us go up to the mountain of Yahweh, To the house of the God of Jacob, That He may instruct us from His ways And that we may walk in His paths.” For from Zion the law will go forth And the word of Yahweh from Jerusalem." 
Isaiah2:4 And He will judge between the nations, And will render decisions for many peoples; And they will hammer their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation will not lift up sword against nation, And never again will they learn war." 
Isaiah2:5 Come, house of Jacob, and let us walk in the light of Yahweh." 
Isaiah2:6 For You have abandoned Your people, the house of Jacob, Because they are filled with influences from the east, And they are soothsayers like the Philistines, And they strike bargains with the children of foreigners." 
Isaiah2:7 Their land has also been filled with silver and gold, And there is no end to their treasures; Their land has also been filled with horses, And there is no end to their chariots." 
Isaiah2:8 Their land has also been filled with idols; They worship the work of their hands, That which their fingers have made." 
Isaiah2:9 So the common man has been bowed down, And the man of importance has been made low, But do not forgive them." 
Isaiah2:10 Enter the rock and hide in the dust From the dread of Yahweh and from the splendor of His majesty. 
Isaiah2:11 The lofty look of man will be made low, And the men made high will be bowed down, And Yahweh alone will be exalted in that day." 
Isaiah2:12 For Yahweh of hosts will have a day of reckoning Against everyone who is proud and high And against everyone who is lifted up, That he may be made low." 
Isaiah2:13 And it will be against all the cedars of Lebanon that are high and lifted up, Against all the oaks of Bashan," 
Isaiah2:14 Against all the high mountains, Against all the hills that are lifted up," 
Isaiah2:15 Against every lofty tower, Against every fortified wall," 
Isaiah2:16 Against all the ships of Tarshish And against all the desirable craft. 
Isaiah2:17 The loftiness of man will be bowed down, And the men who are high will be made low; And Yahweh alone will be exalted in that day," 
Isaiah2:18 But the idols will completely vanish. 
Isaiah2:19 Men will go into caves of the rocks And into holes of the ground Before the dread of Yahweh And the splendor of His majesty, When He arises to make the earth tremble." 
Isaiah2:20 In that day men will cast away to the moles and the bats Their idols of silver and their idols of gold, Which they made for themselves to worship," 
Isaiah2:21 In order to go into the caverns of the rocks and the clefts of the cliffs Before the dread of Yahweh and the splendor of His majesty, When He arises to make the earth tremble." 
Isaiah2:22 Stop regarding man, whose breath of life is in his nostrils; For why should he be esteemed?" 
Isaiah3:1 For behold, the Lord, Yahweh of hosts, is going to remove from Jerusalem and Judah Both supply and support, the whole supply of bread And the whole supply of water," 
Isaiah3:2 The mighty man and the man of war, The judge and the prophet, The diviner and the elder," 
Isaiah3:3 The commander of fifty and the highly respected man, The counselor and the wise craftsman, And the experienced enchanter." 
Isaiah3:4 And I will make young men their princes, And capricious children will rule over them," 
Isaiah3:5 And the people will be oppressed, Each one by another, and each one by his neighbor; The youth will overwhelm the elder And the dishonorable against the honorable." 
Isaiah3:6 When a man grasps his brother in his father’s house, saying, “You have a cloak, you shall be our ruler, And these ruins will be under your hand,”" 
Isaiah3:7 He will protest on that day, saying, “I will not be your healer, For in my house there is neither bread nor cloak; You should not appoint me ruler of the people.”" 
Isaiah3:8 For Jerusalem has stumbled and Judah has fallen, Because their tongue and their deeds are against Yahweh, To rebel against His glorious presence." 
Isaiah3:9 The expression of their faces answers against them, And they declare their sin like Sodom; They do not even conceal it. Woe to their soul! For they have dealt out evil on themselves." 
Isaiah3:10 Say to the righteous that it will go well with them, For they will eat the fruit of their deeds." 
Isaiah3:11 Woe to the wicked! It will go badly with him, For what he has dealt out will be done to him." 
Isaiah3:12 O My people! Their taskmasters are infants, And women rule over them. O My people! Those who guide you lead you astray And swallow up the way of your paths." 
Isaiah3:13 Yahweh takes His stand to contend, And stands to judge the peoples." 
Isaiah3:14 Yahweh enters into judgment with the elders of His people and His princes, “It is you who have consumed the vineyard; The plunder robbed of the afflicted is in your houses." 
Isaiah3:15 What do you mean by crushing My people And grinding the face of the afflicted?” Declares Lord Yahweh of hosts. 
Isaiah3:16 Moreover, Yahweh said, “Because the daughters of Zion are haughty And walk with outstretched necks and seductive eyes, And go along with mincing steps And tinkle the bangles on their feet," 
Isaiah3:17 Therefore the Lord will smite the skull of the daughters of Zion with scabs, And Yahweh will make their foreheads bare.”" 
Isaiah3:18 In that day the Lord will remove the beauty of their anklets, headbands, crescent ornaments," 
Isaiah3:19 dangling earrings, bracelets, veils," 
Isaiah3:20 headdresses, ankle chains, sashes, perfume boxes, enchanted charms," 
Isaiah3:21 finger rings, nose rings," 
Isaiah3:22 festal robes, outer tunics, cloaks, money purses," 
Isaiah3:23 hand mirrors, undergarments, turbans, and shawls." 
Isaiah3:24 Now it will be that instead of sweet perfume there will be the smell of rot; Instead of a belt, a rope; Instead of well‑set hair, a plucked‑out scalp; Instead of fine clothes, a donning of sackcloth; And branding instead of beauty." 
Isaiah3:25 Your men will fall by the sword And your mighty ones in battle. 
Isaiah3:26 And her gates will lament and mourn, And deserted she will sit on the ground." 
Isaiah4:1 And seven women will take hold of one man in that day, saying, “We will eat our own bread and wear our own clothes, only let us be called by your name; take away our reproach!”" 
Isaiah4:2 In that day the Branch of Yahweh will be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth will be the pride and the honor of those of Israel who escape." 
Isaiah4:3 It will be that he who remains in Zion and is left in Jerusalem will be called holy—everyone who is written down for life in Jerusalem. 
Isaiah4:4 When the Lord has washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and rinsed away the bloodshed of Jerusalem from her midst, by the spirit of judgment and the spirit of burning," 
Isaiah4:5 then Yahweh will create over the whole area of Mount Zion and over her convocation a cloud by day, even smoke, and the brightness of a flaming fire by night; for over all the glory will be a canopy." 
Isaiah4:6 And there will be a booth to give shade from the heat by day, and refuge and a hiding place from the storm and the rain." 
Isaiah5:1 Let me sing now for my well‑beloved A song of my beloved concerning His vineyard. My well‑beloved had a vineyard on a fertile hill. 
Isaiah5:2 He dug it all around, removed its stones, And planted it with the choicest vine. And He built a tower in the middle of it And also hewed out a wine vat in it; Then He hoped for it to produce good grapes, But it produced only worthless ones." 
Isaiah5:3 “So now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, Please judge between Me and My vineyard." 
Isaiah5:4 What more was there to do for My vineyard that I have not done in it? Why, when I hoped for it to produce good grapes did it produce worthless ones?" 
Isaiah5:5 So now let Me tell you what I am going to do to My vineyard: I will remove its hedge, and it will be consumed; I will break down its wall, and it will become trampled ground." 
Isaiah5:6 I will lay it waste; It will not be pruned or hoed, But briars and thorns will come up. I will also command the clouds to rain no rain on it.”" 
Isaiah5:7 For the vineyard of Yahweh of hosts is the house of Israel And the men of Judah His delightful plant. Thus He hoped for justice, but behold, bloodshed; For righteousness, but behold, a cry of distress." 
Isaiah5:8 Woe to those who add house to house and join field to field, Until there is no more room, So that you have to live alone in the midst of the land!" 
Isaiah5:9 In my ears Yahweh of hosts has sworn, “Surely, many houses shall become desolate, Even great and good ones, without inhabitants." 
Isaiah5:10 For ten acres of vineyard will yield only one bath of wine, And a homer of seed will yield but an ephah of grain.”" 
Isaiah5:11 Woe to those who rise early in the morning that they may pursue strong drink, Who stay up late in the evening that wine may inflame them!" 
Isaiah5:12 And their banquets are accompanied by lyre and harp, by tambourine and flute, and by wine; But they do not look upon the deeds of Yahweh, Nor do they see the work of His hands." 
Isaiah5:13 Therefore My people go into exile for their lack of knowledge; And their honorable men are famished, And their multitude is parched with thirst." 
Isaiah5:14 Therefore Sheol has enlarged its throat and opened its mouth without limit; And Jerusalem’s majesty, her multitude, her rumbling, and the exultant within her, descend into it." 
Isaiah5:15 So the common man will be bowed down and the man of importance will be made low, The eyes of the lofty also will be made low." 
Isaiah5:16 But Yahweh of hosts will be lofty in judgment, And the holy God will show Himself holy in righteousness." 
Isaiah5:17 Then the lambs will graze as in their pasture, And sojourners will eat in the waste places of the wealthy." 
Isaiah5:18 Woe to those who drag iniquity with the cords of worthlessness, And sin as if with cart ropes," 
Isaiah5:19 Who say, “Let Him hurry, let Him hasten His work, that we may see it; And let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near And come to pass, that we may know it!”" 
Isaiah5:20 Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, Who substitute darkness for light and light for darkness, Who substitute bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!" 
Isaiah5:21 Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes And understanding in their own sight! 
Isaiah5:22 Woe to those who are mighty men in drinking wine And valiant men in mixing strong drink," 
Isaiah5:23 Who declare the wicked righteous for a bribe, And remove the righteous standing of the ones who are righteous!" 
Isaiah5:24 Therefore, as a tongue of fire consumes stubble And dry grass collapses into the flame, So their root will become like rot and their blossom blow away as dust; For they have rejected the law of Yahweh of hosts And the word of the Holy One of Israel they have spurned." 
Isaiah5:25 On this account, the anger of Yahweh has burned against His people, And He has stretched out His hand against them and struck them down. And the mountains trembled, and their corpses lay like refuse in the middle of the streets. For all this His anger is not turned back, But His hand is still stretched out." 
Isaiah5:26 He will also lift up a standard to the distant nations, And will whistle for it from the ends of the earth; And behold, it will come with speed swiftly." 
Isaiah5:27 No one in it is weary or stumbles, None slumbers or sleeps; Nor is the belt at its waist undone, Nor its sandal strap broken." 
Isaiah5:28 Its arrows are sharp and all its bows are bent; The hoofs of its horses seem like flint and its chariot wheels like a whirlwind. 
Isaiah5:29 Its roaring is like a lioness, and it roars like young lions; It growls and seizes the prey And carries it off with no one to deliver it." 
Isaiah5:30 And it will growl over it in that day like the roaring of the sea. If one looks to the land, behold, there is darkness and distress; Even the light is darkened by its clouds." 
Isaiah6:1 In the year of King Uzziah’s death I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up, with the train of His robe filling the temple." 
Isaiah6:2 Seraphim stood above Him, each having six wings: with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew." 
Isaiah6:3 And one called out to another and said, “Holy, Holy, Holy, is Yahweh of hosts; The whole earth is full of His glory.”" 
Isaiah6:4 And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called out, while the house of God was filling with smoke." 
Isaiah6:5 Then I said, “Woe is me, for I am ruined! For I am a man of unclean lips, And I live among a people of unclean lips; For my eyes have seen the King, Yahweh of hosts.”" 
Isaiah6:6 Then one of the seraphim flew to me with a burning coal in his hand, which he had taken from the altar with tongs." 
Isaiah6:7 And he touched my mouth with it and said, “Behold, this has touched your lips; and your iniquity is taken away, and your sin is atoned for.”" 
Isaiah6:8 Then I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, “Whom shall I send, and who will go for Us?” Then I said, “Here am I. Send me!”" 
Isaiah6:9 He said, “Go, and tell this people: ‘Keep on hearing, but do not understand; Keep on seeing, but do not know.’" 
Isaiah6:10 Render the hearts of this people insensitive, Their ears dull, And their eyes dim, Lest they see with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with their hearts, And return and be healed.”" 
Isaiah6:11 Then I said, “Lord, how long?” And He said, “Until cities are devastated and without inhabitant, Houses are without people, And the land is devastated to desolation," 
Isaiah6:12 And Yahweh has removed men far away, And the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land." 
Isaiah6:13 Yet there will be a tenth portion in it, And it will again be subject to burning, Like a terebinth or like an oak Whose stump remains when it is felled. The holy seed is its stump.”" 
Isaiah7:1 Now it happened in the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin the king of Aram and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not conquer it." 
Isaiah7:2 When it was told to the house of David, saying, “The Arameans have camped in Ephraim,” his heart and the hearts of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind." 
Isaiah7:3 Then Yahweh said to Isaiah, “Go out now to meet Ahaz, you and your son Shear-jashub, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool, to the highway of the fuller’s field," 
Isaiah7:4 and say to him, ‘Take care and stay quiet, have no fear and do not be fainthearted because of these two stubs of smoldering firebrands, on account of the burning anger of Rezin and Aram and the son of Remaliah." 
Isaiah7:5 Because Aram, with Ephraim and the son of Remaliah, has counseled evil against you, saying," 
Isaiah7:6 “Let us go up against Judah and terrorize it, and make for ourselves a breach in its walls and set up the son of Tabeel as king in the midst of it,”" 
Isaiah7:7 thus says Lord Yahweh: “It shall not stand, nor shall it happen." 
Isaiah7:8 For the head of Aram is Damascus and the head of Damascus is Rezin (now within another sixty-five years Ephraim will be shattered, so that it is no longer a people)," 
Isaiah7:9 and the head of Ephraim is Samaria and the head of Samaria is the son of Remaliah. If you do not establish your faith in Yahweh, you surely shall not be established.”’”" 
Isaiah7:10 Then Yahweh spoke again to Ahaz, saying," 
Isaiah7:11 “Ask a sign for yourself from Yahweh your God; make it deep as Sheol or high as heaven.” 
Isaiah7:12 But Ahaz said, “I will not ask, and I will not test Yahweh!”" 
Isaiah7:13 Then he said, “Listen now, O house of David! Is it too slight a thing for you to try the patience of men, that you will try the patience of my God as well?" 
Isaiah7:14 Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign: Behold, the virgin will be with child and bear a son, and she will call His name Immanuel." 
Isaiah7:15 He will eat curds and honey in order that He will know to refuse evil and choose good. 
Isaiah7:16 For before the boy will know to refuse evil and choose good, the land whose two kings you dread will be forsaken." 
Isaiah7:17 Yahweh will bring on you, on your people, and on your father’s house days which have never come since the day that Ephraim separated from Judah—the king of Assyria!”" 
Isaiah7:18 And it will be in that day, that Yahweh will whistle for the fly that is in the remotest part of the rivers of Egypt and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria." 
Isaiah7:19 And they will all come and rest upon the steep ravines, on the crevices of the cliffs, on all the thorn bushes, and on all the watering places." 
Isaiah7:20 In that day, the Lord will shave with a razor—one hired from regions beyond the River (that is, the king of Assyria)—the head and the hair of the legs; and it will also remove the beard." 
Isaiah7:21 And it will be in that day, that a man may keep alive a heifer and a pair of sheep;" 
Isaiah7:22 and because of the abundance of the milk produced, he will eat curds, for everyone that is left within the land will eat curds and honey." 
Isaiah7:23 And it will be in that day, that every place where there used to be one thousand vines, valued at one thousand shekels of silver, will become briars and thorns." 
Isaiah7:24 People will come there with bows and arrows because all the land will be briars and thorns. 
Isaiah7:25 As for all the hills which used to be cultivated with the hoe, you will not go there for fear of briars and thorns; but they will become a place for pasturing oxen and for sheep to trample." 
Isaiah8:1 Then Yahweh said to me, “Take for yourself a large tablet and write on it in ordinary letters: Concerning Maher-shalal-hash-baz." 
Isaiah8:2 And I will take to Myself faithful witnesses for testimony, Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.”" 
Isaiah8:2 And I will take to Myself faithful witnesses for testimony, Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.”" 
Isaiah8:3 Then I drew near to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son. Then Yahweh said to me, “Call his name Maher-shalal-hash-baz," 
Isaiah8:4 for before the boy knows how to cry out ‘My father’ or ‘My mother,’ the wealth of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria will be carried away before the king of Assyria.”" 
Isaiah8:5 Again Yahweh spoke to me further, saying," 
Isaiah8:6 “Inasmuch as these people have rejected the gently flowing waters of Shiloah And rejoice in Rezin and the son of Remaliah; 
Isaiah8:7 Now therefore, behold, the Lord is about to bring on them the mighty and abundant waters of the River— The king of Assyria and all his glory; And it will rise up over all its channels and go over all its banks." 
Isaiah8:8 Then it will sweep on into Judah; it will overflow and pass through; It will reach even to the neck; And the spread of its wings will fill the breadth of Your land, O Immanuel." 
Isaiah8:9 “Be broken, O peoples, and be shattered; And give ear, all remote places of the earth. Gird yourselves, yet be shattered; Gird yourselves, yet be shattered." 
Isaiah8:10 Devise counsel, but it will be thwarted; Speak a word, but it will not stand, For God is with us.”" 
Isaiah8:11 For thus Yahweh spoke to me with a strong hand and disciplined me not to walk in the way of this people, saying," 
Isaiah8:12 “You are not to say, ‘It is a conspiracy!’ In regard to all that this people call a conspiracy; And you are not to fear what they fear, and you shall not tremble." 
Isaiah8:13 It is Yahweh of hosts whom you should regard as holy. And He shall be your fear, And He shall be your cause of trembling." 
Isaiah8:14 Then He shall become a sanctuary; But to both the houses of Israel, a stone to strike and a rock to stumble over, And a snare and a trap for the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Isaiah8:15 And many will stumble over them; Then they will fall and be broken; They will even be snared and caught.” 
Isaiah8:16 Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples." 
Isaiah8:17 And I will wait for Yahweh who is hiding His face from the house of Jacob; and I will hope for Him. 
Isaiah8:18 Behold, I and the children whom Yahweh has given me are for signs and wonders in Israel from Yahweh of hosts, who dwells on Mount Zion." 
Isaiah8:19 Now when they say to you, “Inquire of the mediums and the spiritists who whisper and mutter,” should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living?" 
Isaiah8:20 To the law and to the testimony! If they do not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn." 
Isaiah8:21 And they will pass through the land hard-pressed and hungry, and it will be that when they are hungry, they will be angry and curse their king and their God as they face upward." 
Isaiah8:22 Then they will look to the earth, and behold, distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish; and they will be banished into thick darkness." 
Isaiah9:1 But there will be no more gloom for her who was in anguish; in earlier times He treated the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali with contempt, but later on He shall make it glorious, by the way of the sea, on the other side of Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles." 
Isaiah9:2 The people who walk in darkness Will see a great light; Those who live in the land of the shadow of death, The light will shine on them." 
Isaiah9:3 You shall multiply the nation, You shall make great their gladness; They will be glad in Your presence As with the gladness of harvest, As men rejoice when they divide the spoil." 
Isaiah9:4 For You shall shatter the yoke of their burden and the staff on their shoulders, The rod of their taskmaster, as at the battle of Midian." 
Isaiah9:5 For every boot of the booted warrior in the rumbling of battle, And cloak rolled in blood, will be for burning, fuel for the fire." 
Isaiah9:6 For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us; And the government will rest on His shoulders; And His name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace." 
Isaiah9:7 There will be no end to the increase of His government or of peace, On the throne of David and over his kingdom, To establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness From then on and forevermore. The zeal of Yahweh of hosts will accomplish this." 
Isaiah9:8 The Lord sends a message against Jacob, And it falls on Israel." 
Isaiah9:9 And all the people know it, That is, Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, Saying in lofty pride and in arrogance of heart:" 
Isaiah9:10 “The bricks have fallen down, But we will rebuild with cut stones; The sycamores have been cut in pieces, But we will replace them with cedars.”" 
Isaiah9:11 Therefore Yahweh exalts against them adversaries from Rezin And incites their enemies," 
Isaiah9:12 The Arameans on the east and the Philistines on the west; And they devour Israel with gaping jaws. In spite of all this, His anger does not turn back, And His hand is still stretched out." 
Isaiah9:13 Yet the people do not turn back to Him who struck them, Nor do they seek Yahweh of hosts." 
Isaiah9:14 So Yahweh cuts off head and tail from Israel, Both palm branch and bulrush in a single day." 
Isaiah9:15 The head is the elder and the highly respected man, And the prophet who teaches falsehood is the tail." 
Isaiah9:16 For those who guide this people are leading them astray; And those who are guided by them are brought to confusion. 
Isaiah9:17 Therefore the Lord is not glad in their choice men, Nor does He have compassion on their orphans or their widows; For every one of them is godless and an evildoer, And every mouth is speaking wicked foolishness. In spite of all this, His anger does not turn back, And His hand is still stretched out." 
Isaiah9:18 For wickedness burns like a fire; It consumes briars and thorns; It even sets the thickets of the forest aflame, And they roll upward in a column of smoke." 
Isaiah9:19 By the fury of Yahweh of hosts the land is burned up, And the people are like fuel for the fire; No man spares his brother." 
Isaiah9:20 They slice off what is on the right hand but still are hungry, And they eat what is on the left hand but they are not satisfied; Each of them eats the flesh of his own arm." 
Isaiah9:21 Manasseh devours Ephraim, and Ephraim Manasseh, And together they are against Judah. In spite of all this, His anger does not turn back, And His hand is still stretched out." 
Isaiah10:1 Woe to those who enact evil statutes And to those who constantly record mischief," 
Isaiah10:2 So as to turn the poor away from their cause And rob the afflicted of My people of their justice, So that widows may be their spoil And that they may plunder the orphans." 
Isaiah10:3 Now what will you do in the day of visitation, And in the devastation which will come from afar? To whom will you flee for help? And where will you leave your glory?" 
Isaiah10:4 Nothing remains but to crouch among the captives Or fall among those killed. In spite of all this, His anger does not turn back And His hand is still stretched out." 
Isaiah10:5 Woe to Assyria, the rod of My anger And the staff in whose hands is My indignation," 
Isaiah10:6 I send it against a godless nation And command it against the people of My fury To capture spoil and to seize plunder, And to trample them down like mud in the streets." 
Isaiah10:7 But it does not intend to act in this way, And it does not think in its heart in this way, Rather, what is in its heart is to destroy And to cut off many nations." 
Isaiah10:8 For it says, “Are not my princes all kings?" 
Isaiah10:9 Is not Calno like Carchemish, Or Hamath like Arpad, Or Samaria like Damascus?" 
Isaiah10:10 As my hand has reached to the kingdoms of the idols, Whose graven images were greater than those of Jerusalem and Samaria," 
Isaiah10:11 Shall I not do to Jerusalem and her images Just as I have done to Samaria and her idols?” 
Isaiah10:12 So it will be that when the Lord has completed all His work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, He will say, “I will punish the fruit of the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria and the pomp of his eyes which are raised high.”" 
Isaiah10:13 For he has said, “By the power of my hand and by my wisdom I did this, For I have understanding; And I removed the boundaries of the peoples And plundered their treasures, And like a mighty man I brought down their inhabitants," 
Isaiah10:14 And my hand reached for the wealth of the peoples like a nest, And as one gathers abandoned eggs, I gathered all the earth; And there was not one that flapped its wing or opened its beak or chirped.”" 
Isaiah10:15 Is the axe to boast itself over the one who chops with it? Is the saw to magnify itself over the one who wields it? That would be like a rod wielding those who lift it, Or like a staff lifting him who is not wood." 
Isaiah10:16 Therefore the Lord, Yahweh of hosts, will send a wasting disease among his stout warriors; And under his glory a fire will be kindled like a burning flame." 
Isaiah10:17 And the light of Israel will become a fire and his Holy One a flame, And it will burn and devour his thorns and his briars in a single day." 
Isaiah10:18 And He will bring to an end the glory of his forest and of his fruitful orchard, both soul and body, And it will be as when a sick man wastes away." 
Isaiah10:19 And the rest of the trees of his forest will be so small in number That a child could write them down. 
Isaiah10:20 Now it will be in that day, that the remnant of Israel and those of the house of Jacob who have escaped, will never again rely on the one who struck them, but will truly rely on Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah10:21 A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God." 
Isaiah10:22 For though your people, O Israel, may be like the sand of the sea, Only a remnant within them will return; A destructive end is decreed, overflowing with righteousness." 
Isaiah10:23 For a complete destruction, one that is decreed, Lord Yahweh of hosts will do in the midst of the whole land." 
Isaiah10:24 Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh of hosts, “O My people who inhabit Zion, do not fear the Assyrian who strikes you with the rod and lifts up his staff against you, the way Egypt did." 
Isaiah10:25 For in a very little while My indignation against you will end and My anger will be directed to their destruction.” 
Isaiah10:26 And Yahweh of hosts will waken a scourge against him like the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb; and His staff will be over the sea and He will lift it up the way He did in Egypt. 
Isaiah10:27 So it will be in that day, that his burden will be removed from your shoulders and his yoke from your neck, and the yoke will be broken because of fatness." 
Isaiah10:28 He has come against Aiath, He has passed through Migron; At Michmash he deposited his baggage." 
Isaiah10:29 They have gone through the pass, saying, “Geba will be our lodging place.” Ramah trembles, and Gibeah of Saul has fled away." 
Isaiah10:30 Cry aloud with your voice, O daughter of Gallim! Pay attention, Laishah and afflicted Anathoth!" 
Isaiah10:31 Madmenah has fled. The inhabitants of Gebim have sought refuge. 
Isaiah10:32 Yet today he will stand at Nob; He shakes his fist at the mountain of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem." 
Isaiah10:33 Behold, the Lord, Yahweh of hosts, will lop off the boughs with a terrible crash; Those also who are high in stature will be cut in pieces And those who are lofty will be made low." 
Isaiah10:34 He will cut down the thickets of the forest with an iron axe, And Lebanon will fall by the Mighty One." 
Isaiah11:1 Then a shoot will spring from the stem of Jesse, And a branch from his roots will bear fruit." 
Isaiah11:2 The Spirit of Yahweh will rest on Him, The spirit of wisdom and understanding, The spirit of counsel and might, The spirit of knowledge and the fear of Yahweh." 
Isaiah11:3 And He will delight in the fear of Yahweh, And He will not judge by what His eyes see, Nor render a decision by what His ears hear;" 
Isaiah11:4 But with righteousness He will judge the poor, And decide with uprightness for the afflicted of the earth; And He will strike the earth with the rod of His mouth, And with the breath of His lips He will put the wicked to death." 
Isaiah11:5 Also righteousness will be the belt about His loins, And faithfulness the belt about His waist." 
Isaiah11:6 And the wolf will dwell with the lamb, And the leopard will lie down with the young goat, And the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; And a young boy will lead them." 
Isaiah11:7 Also the cow and the bear will graze, Their young will lie down together, And the lion will eat straw like the ox." 
Isaiah11:8 And the nursing baby will play by the hole of the cobra, And the weaned child will put his hand on the viper’s den." 
Isaiah11:9 They will do no evil nor act corruptly in all My holy mountain, For the earth will be full of the knowledge of Yahweh As the waters cover the sea." 
Isaiah11:10 Then it will be in that day, That the nations will seek the root of Jesse, Who will stand as a standard for the peoples; And His resting place will be glorious." 
Isaiah11:11 Then it will be in that day, that the Lord Will again acquire the second time with His hand The remnant of His people, who will remain, From Assyria, Egypt, Pathros, Ethiopia, Elam, Shinar, Hamath, And from the coastlands of the sea." 
Isaiah11:12 And He will lift up a standard for the nations And assemble the banished ones of Israel, And will gather the scattered of Judah From the four corners of the earth." 
Isaiah11:13 Then the jealousy of Ephraim will depart, And those who assail Judah will be cut off; Ephraim will not be jealous of Judah, And Judah will not assail Ephraim." 
Isaiah11:14 And they will swoop down on the slopes of the Philistines on the west; Together they will plunder the sons of the east; They will stretch out their hands over Edom and Moab, And the sons of Ammon will obey them." 
Isaiah11:15 And Yahweh will devote to destruction The tongue of the Sea of Egypt; And He will wave His hand over the River With His scorching wind; And He will strike it into seven streams And make men walk over dry‑shod. 
Isaiah11:16 And there will be a highway from Assyria For the remnant of His people who will remain, Just as there was for Israel In the day that they came up out of the land of Egypt." 
Isaiah12:1 Then you will say in that day, “I will give thanks to You, O Yahweh; For although You were angry with me, Your anger is turned away, And You comfort me." 
Isaiah12:2 Behold, God is my salvation, I will trust and not dread; For Yah—Yahweh Himself—is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation.”" 
Isaiah12:3 Therefore you will joyously draw water From the springs of salvation. 
Isaiah12:4 And in that day you will say, “Give thanks to Yahweh, call on His name. Make known His deeds among the peoples; Make them remember that His name is exalted.”" 
Isaiah12:5 Praise Yahweh in song, for He has done majestic things; Let this be known throughout the earth." 
Isaiah12:6 Cry aloud and shout for joy, O inhabitant of Zion, For great in your midst is the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah13:1 The oracle concerning Babylon which Isaiah the son of Amoz beheld. 
Isaiah13:2 Lift up a standard on the bare hill, Heighten your voice at them, Wave the hand that they may enter the doors of the nobles." 
Isaiah13:3 I have commanded My set apart ones, I have even called My mighty warriors, My proudly exulting ones, To execute My anger." 
Isaiah13:4 A sound of tumult on the mountains, Like that of many people! A sound of the rumbling of kingdoms, Of nations gathered together! Yahweh of hosts is mustering the host for battle." 
Isaiah13:5 They are coming from a far country, From the end of the sky, Yahweh and His instruments of indignation, To wreak destruction on the whole land." 
Isaiah13:6 Wail, for the day of Yahweh is near! It will come as destruction from the Almighty." 
Isaiah13:7 Therefore all hands will fall limp, And every man’s heart will melt." 
Isaiah13:8 They will be terrified, Pains and labor pangs will take hold of them; They will writhe like a woman in labor, They will look at one another in astonishment, Their faces aflame." 
Isaiah13:9 Behold, the day of Yahweh is coming, Cruel, with fury and burning anger, To make the land a desolation; And He will exterminate its sinners from it." 
Isaiah13:10 For the stars of heaven and their constellations Will not flash forth their light; The sun will be dark when it rises And the moon will not shed its light. 
Isaiah13:11 Thus I will punish the world for its evil And the wicked for their iniquity; I will also put an end to the pride of the arrogant And bring low the lofty pride of the ruthless. 
Isaiah13:12 I will make mortal man scarcer than fine gold And mankind than the gold of Ophir. 
Isaiah13:13 Therefore I will make the heavens tremble, And the earth will be shaken from its place At the fury of Yahweh of hosts In the day of His burning anger." 
Isaiah13:14 And it will be that like a hunted gazelle, Or like sheep with none to gather them, They will each turn to his own people, And each one flee to his own land." 
Isaiah13:15 Anyone who is found will be pierced through, And anyone who is captured will fall by the sword." 
Isaiah13:16 Their infants also will be dashed to pieces Before their eyes; Their houses will be plundered And their wives ravished. 
Isaiah13:17 Behold, I am going to awaken the Medes against them, Who will not think about silver or take pleasure in gold." 
Isaiah13:18 And their bows will dash the young men to pieces, They will not even have compassion on the fruit of the womb, Nor will their eye pity children." 
Isaiah13:19 And it will be that Babylon, the beauty of kingdoms, the honor of the Chaldeans’ pride, Will be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah." 
Isaiah13:20 It will never be inhabited or dwelt in from generation to generation; Nor will the Arab pitch his tent there, Nor will shepherds make their flocks lie down there." 
Isaiah13:21 But desert creatures will lie down there, And their houses will be full of owls; Ostriches also will dwell there, and shaggy goats will leap there." 
Isaiah13:22 And hyenas will howl in their fortified towers And jackals in their luxurious palaces. Her fateful time also will soon come And her days will not be prolonged. 
Isaiah14:1 When Yahweh will have compassion on Jacob and again choose Israel, and put them in their own land, then sojourners will join them and attach themselves to the house of Jacob." 
Isaiah14:2 And the peoples will take them along and bring them to their place, and the house of Israel will possess them as an inheritance in the land of Yahweh for their male and female slaves; and they will take their captors captive and will have dominion over their taskmasters." 
Isaiah14:3 And it will be in the day when Yahweh gives you rest from your pain and turmoil and harsh slavery in which you have been enslaved," 
Isaiah14:4 that you will take up this taunt against the king of Babylon, and say, “How the taskmaster has ceased, And how fury has ceased!" 
Isaiah14:5 Yahweh has broken the staff of the wicked, The scepter of rulers" 
Isaiah14:6 Which used to strike the peoples in fury with unceasing strokes, Which had dominion over the nations in anger with unrestrained persecution." 
Isaiah14:7 The whole earth is at rest and is quiet; They break forth into shouts of joy. 
Isaiah14:8 Even the cypress trees are glad over you, and the cedars of Lebanon, saying, ‘Since you were laid low, no tree cutter comes up against us.’" 
Isaiah14:9 Sheol from beneath trembles excitedly over you to meet you when you come; It wakens for you the spirits of the dead, all the leaders of the earth; It raises all the kings of the nations from their thrones." 
Isaiah14:10 They will all answer and say to you, ‘Even you have been made weak as we, You have become like us." 
Isaiah14:11 Your pride and the music of your harps Have been brought down to Sheol; Maggots are spread out as your bed beneath you And worms are your covering.’ 
Isaiah14:12 How you have fallen from heaven, O star of the morning, son of the dawn! You have been cut down to the earth, You who have weakened the nations!" 
Isaiah14:13 But you said in your heart, ‘I will ascend to heaven; I will raise my throne above the stars of God, And I will sit on the mount of assembly In the recesses of the north." 
Isaiah14:14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.’ 
Isaiah14:15 Nevertheless you will be brought down to Sheol, To the recesses of the pit." 
Isaiah14:16 Those who see you will gaze at you, They will carefully consider you, saying, ‘Is this the man who made the earth tremble, Who caused kingdoms to quake," 
Isaiah14:17 Who made the world like a wilderness And pulled down its cities, Who did not allow his prisoners to go home?’" 
Isaiah14:18 All the kings of the nations lie in glory, Each in his own place." 
Isaiah14:19 But you have been cast out of your grave Like an abhorred branch, Clothed with those killed who are pierced with a sword, Who go down to the stones of the pit Like a trampled corpse." 
Isaiah14:20 You will not be united with them in burial, Because you have ruined your country, You have killed your people. May the seed of evildoers not be called upon forever." 
Isaiah14:21 Prepare for his sons a place of slaughter Because of the iniquity of their fathers. They must not arise and take possession of the earth And fill the face of the world with cities.” 
Isaiah14:22 “I will rise up against them,” declares Yahweh of hosts, “and will cut off from Babylon name and remnant, offspring and posterity,” declares Yahweh." 
Isaiah14:23 “I will also make it a possession for the hedgehog and swamps of water, and I will sweep it with the broom of destruction,” declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Isaiah14:24 Yahweh of hosts has sworn saying, “Surely, just as I have intended so it has happened, and just as I have counseled so it will stand," 
Isaiah14:25 to break Assyria in My land, and I will trod him down on My mountains. Then his yoke will be removed from them and his burden removed from their shoulder." 
Isaiah14:26 This is the counsel that is counseled against the whole earth; and this is the hand that is stretched out against all the nations. 
Isaiah14:27 For Yahweh of hosts has counseled, and who can thwart it? And as for His stretched-out hand, who can turn it back?”" 
Isaiah14:28 In the year that King Ahaz died this oracle came: 
Isaiah14:29 “Do not be glad, O Philistia, all of you, Because the rod that struck you is broken; For from the serpent’s root a viper will come out, And its fruit will be a flying fiery serpent." 
Isaiah14:30 And the foremost of the poor will eat, And the needy will lie down in security; I will put to death your root with famine, And it will kill off your remnant." 
Isaiah14:31 Wail, O gate; cry, O city; Melt away, O Philistia, all of you; For smoke comes from the north, And there is no straggler in his ranks." 
Isaiah14:32 How then will one answer the messengers of the nation? That Yahweh has founded Zion, And the afflicted of His people will take refuge in it.”" 
Isaiah15:1 The oracle concerning Moab. Surely in a night Ar of Moab is destroyed and ruined; Surely in a night Kir of Moab is destroyed and ruined. 
Isaiah15:2 They have gone up to the temple and to Dibon, even to the high places to weep. Moab wails over Nebo and Medeba; Everyone’s head is bald and every beard is cut off." 
Isaiah15:3 In their streets they have girded themselves with sackcloth; On their rooftops and in their squares Everyone is wailing, dissolved in weeping." 
Isaiah15:4 Heshbon and Elealeh also cry out, Their voice is heard all the way to Jahaz; Therefore the armed men of Moab make a loud shout; His soul trembles within him." 
Isaiah15:5 My heart cries out for Moab; Those who flee from her are as far as Zoar and Eglath‑shelishiyah, For they go up the ascent of Luhith weeping; Surely on the road to Horonaim they keep awake with crying in distress over their destruction." 
Isaiah15:6 For the waters of Nimrim are desolate. Surely the grass is dried up, the tender grass has completely ceased, There is no green thing." 
Isaiah15:7 Therefore the abundance they have made and stored up They carry off over the brook of Arabim. 
Isaiah15:8 For the cry has gone around the territory of Moab, Its wailing goes as far as Eglaim and its wailing even to Beer‑elim." 
Isaiah15:9 For the waters of Dimon are full of blood; Surely I will put added woes upon Dimon, A lion upon those of Moab who have escaped and upon the remnant of the land." 
Isaiah16:1 Send the tribute lamb to the ruler of the land, From Sela by way of the wilderness to the mountain of the daughter of Zion." 
Isaiah16:2 Then, like fleeing birds or scattered nestlings, The daughters of Moab will be at the fords of the Arnon." 
Isaiah16:3 “Bring us counsel, make a decision; Cast your shadow like night at high noon; Hide those banished, do not reveal the one who flees." 
Isaiah16:4 Let the banished of Moab sojourn with you; Be a hiding place to them from the destroyer.” For the extortioner has come to an end, destruction has ceased, Oppressors have completely disappeared from the land." 
Isaiah16:5 And a throne will be established in lovingkindness, And a judge will sit on it in truth in the tent of David; Moreover, he will seek justice And be prompt in righteousness." 
Isaiah16:6 We have heard of the pride of Moab, an excessive pride; Even of his lofty pride, pride, and fury; His idle boasts are false." 
Isaiah16:7 Therefore Moab will wail; everyone of Moab will wail. You will moan for the raisin cakes of Kir‑hareseth As those who are utterly stricken. 
Isaiah16:8 For the fields of Heshbon have languished, the vines of Sibmah as well; The lords of the nations have trampled down its choice clusters Which reached as far as Jazer and wandered to the deserts; Its tendrils spread themselves out and passed over the sea." 
Isaiah16:9 Therefore I will weep bitterly for Jazer, for the vine of Sibmah; I will drench you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealeh; For the shouting over your summer fruits and your harvest has fallen away." 
Isaiah16:10 Gladness and joy are taken away from the fruitful orchard; In the vineyards also there will be no cries of joy or shouts of jubilation, No treader treads out wine in the presses, For I have made the shouting to cease." 
Isaiah16:11 Therefore my inner being moans like a harp for Moab And my inward feelings for Kir‑hareseth. 
Isaiah16:12 So it will be when Moab appears, When he wearies himself upon his high place And comes to his sanctuary to pray, That he will not prevail." 
Isaiah16:13 This is the word which Yahweh spoke earlier concerning Moab. 
Isaiah16:14 But now Yahweh speaks, saying, “Within three years, as a hired man would count them, the glory of Moab will be dishonored along with all his great population, and his remnant will be very small and not mighty.”" 
Isaiah17:1 The oracle concerning Damascus. “Behold, Damascus is about to be removed from being a city And will become a fallen ruin." 
Isaiah17:2 The cities of Aroer are forsaken; They will be for flocks, and they will lie down in them; And there will be no one to cause them to tremble." 
Isaiah17:3 And the fortified city will cease from Ephraim, And sovereignty from Damascus And the remnant of Aram; They will be like the glory of the sons of Israel,” Declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Isaiah17:4 Now it will be in that day, that the glory of Jacob will wane, And the fatness of his flesh will become lean." 
Isaiah17:5 And it will be even like the reaper gathering the standing grain, As his arm harvests the ears of grain, Or it will be like one gleaning ears of grain In the valley of Rephaim." 
Isaiah17:6 Yet gleanings will remain in it like the shaking of an olive tree, Two or three olives on the topmost branch, Four or five on the twigs of a fruitful tree, Declares Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Isaiah17:7 In that day man will have regard for his Maker And his eyes will look to the Holy One of Israel. 
Isaiah17:8 He will not have regard for the altars, the work of his hands, Nor will he look to that which his fingers have made, Even the Asherim and incense stands." 
Isaiah17:9 In that day their strong cities will be like forsaken places in the forest, Or like branches which they forsook before the sons of Israel; And the land will be a desolation." 
Isaiah17:10 For you have forgotten the God of your salvation And have not remembered the rock of your strong defense. Therefore you plant delightful plants And set them with vine branches of a strange god. 
Isaiah17:11 In the day that you plant it you carefully fence it in, And in the morning you cause your seed to flourish; But the harvest will be a heap In a day of sickliness and incurable pain." 
Isaiah17:12 Alas, the uproar of many peoples Who roar like the roaring of the seas, And the rumbling of nations Who rumble on like the rumbling of mighty waters!" 
Isaiah17:13 The nations rumble on like the rumbling of many waters, But He will rebuke them, and they will flee far away, And be pursued like chaff in the mountains before the wind, Or like whirling dust before a whirlwind." 
Isaiah17:14 At evening time, behold, there is terror! Before morning they are no more. Such will be the portion of those who pillage us And the lot of those who plunder us." 
Isaiah18:1 Alas, O land of whirring wings Which lies beyond the rivers of Ethiopia," 
Isaiah18:2 Which sends envoys by the sea, Even in papyrus vessels on the surface of the waters. Go, swift messengers, to a nation tall and smooth, To a people feared far and wide, A powerful and oppressive nation Whose land the rivers divide." 
Isaiah18:3 All you inhabitants of the world and dwellers on earth, As soon as a standard is raised on the mountains, you will see it, And as soon as the trumpet is blown, you will hear it." 
Isaiah18:4 For thus Yahweh has told me, “I will look from My dwelling place quietly Like dazzling heat in the sunshine, Like a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest.”" 
Isaiah18:5 For before the harvest, as soon as the bud blossoms And the flower becomes a ripening grape, Then He will cut off the sprigs with pruning knives And remove and cut away the spreading branches." 
Isaiah18:6 They will be left together for mountain birds of prey, And for the beasts of the earth; And the birds of prey will spend the summer feeding on them, And all the beasts of the earth will spend harvest time on them." 
Isaiah18:7 At that time a gift of homage will be brought to Yahweh of hosts From a people tall and smooth, Even from a people feared far and wide, A powerful and oppressive nation, Whose land the rivers divide— To the place of the name of Yahweh of hosts, even Mount Zion." 
Isaiah19:1 The oracle concerning Egypt. Behold, Yahweh is riding on a swift cloud and is about to come to Egypt; The idols of Egypt will shake at His presence, And the heart of the Egyptians will melt within them." 
Isaiah19:2 “So I will incite Egyptians against Egyptians; And they will each fight against his brother and each against his neighbor, City against city and kingdom against kingdom." 
Isaiah19:3 Then the spirit of the Egyptians will be emptied to destruction within them; And I will confuse their counsel, So that they will seek idols and ghosts of the dead And to mediums and spiritists." 
Isaiah19:4 Moreover, I will deliver the Egyptians into the hand of a cruel master, And a strong king will rule over them,” declares the Lord, Yahweh of hosts." 
Isaiah19:5 The waters from the sea will dry up, And the river will be parched and dry." 
Isaiah19:6 The rivers will emit a stench, The streams of Egypt will thin out and dry up; The reeds and rushes will rot away." 
Isaiah19:7 The bulrushes by the Nile, by the edge of the Nile And all the sown fields by the Nile Will become dry, be driven away, and be no more." 
Isaiah19:8 And the fishermen will lament, And all those who cast a line into the Nile will mourn, And those who spread nets on the waters will languish." 
Isaiah19:9 Moreover, the manufacturers of linen made from combed flax And the weavers of white cloth will be ashamed." 
Isaiah19:10 And the pillars of Egypt will be crushed; All the hired laborers will be grieved in soul. 
Isaiah19:11 The princes of Zoan are merely ignorant fools; The counsel of Pharaoh’s wisest counselors has become senseless. How can you men say to Pharaoh, “I am a son of the wise, a son of the kings of old”?" 
Isaiah19:12 Well then, where are your wise men? Please let them tell you, And let them understand what Yahweh of hosts Has counseled against Egypt." 
Isaiah19:13 The princes of Zoan have acted as ignorant fools, The princes of Memphis are deluded; Those who are the cornerstone of her tribes Have led Egypt astray." 
Isaiah19:14 Yahweh has mixed within her a spirit of distortion; They have led Egypt astray in all that it does, As a drunken man strays into his vomit." 
Isaiah19:15 There will be no work for Egypt Which its head or tail, its palm branch or bulrush, may do." 
Isaiah19:16 In that day the Egyptians will become like women, and they will tremble and be in dread because of the waving of the hand of Yahweh of hosts, which He is going to wave over them." 
Isaiah19:17 And the land of Judah will become a terror to Egypt; everyone to whom it is mentioned will be in dread of it because of the counsel of Yahweh of hosts which He is counseling against them. 
Isaiah19:18 In that day five cities in the land of Egypt will be speaking the language of Canaan and swearing allegiance to Yahweh of hosts; one will be called the City of Destruction. 
Isaiah19:19 In that day there will be an altar to Yahweh in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to Yahweh near its border." 
Isaiah19:20 And it will become a sign and a witness to Yahweh of hosts in the land of Egypt; for they will cry to Yahweh because of oppressors, and He will send them a Savior and a Champion, and He will deliver them." 
Isaiah19:21 Thus Yahweh will make Himself known to Egypt, and the Egyptians will know Yahweh in that day. They will even worship with sacrifice and offering, and they will make a vow to Yahweh and pay it." 
Isaiah19:22 And Yahweh will smite Egypt, smiting but healing; so they will return to Yahweh, and He will be moved by their entreaty and will heal them." 
Isaiah19:23 In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrians will come into Egypt and the Egyptians into Assyria, and the Egyptians will worship with the Assyrians." 
Isaiah19:24 In that day Israel will be the third party with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth," 
Isaiah19:25 whom Yahweh of hosts has blessed, saying, “Blessed is Egypt My people, and Assyria the work of My hands, and Israel My inheritance.”" 
Isaiah20:1 In the year that the commander came to Ashdod, when Sargon the king of Assyria sent him and he fought against Ashdod and captured it," 
Isaiah20:2 at that time Yahweh spoke by the hand of Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, “Go and loosen the sackcloth from your hips and take your shoes off your feet.” And he did so, going naked and barefoot." 
Isaiah20:3 And Yahweh said, “Even as My servant Isaiah has gone naked and barefoot three years as a sign and wonder against Egypt and Ethiopia," 
Isaiah20:4 so the king of Assyria will lead away the captives of Egypt and the exiles of Ethiopia, young and old, naked and barefoot with buttocks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt." 
Isaiah20:5 Then they will be dismayed and ashamed because of Ethiopia their hope and Egypt their boast. 
Isaiah20:6 So the inhabitants of this coastland will say in that day, ‘Behold, such is our hope, where we fled for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria; and we, how shall we escape?’”" 
Isaiah21:1 The oracle concerning the wilderness of the sea. As whirlwinds in the Negev sweep on, It comes from the wilderness, from a fearsome land." 
Isaiah21:2 A harsh vision has been declared to me; The treacherous one still deals treacherously, and the destroyer still destroys. Go up, Elam, lay siege, Media; I have made an end of all the groaning she has caused." 
Isaiah21:3 For this reason my loins are full of anguish; Pains have seized me like the pains of a woman in labor. I am so bewildered I cannot hear, so terrified I cannot see." 
Isaiah21:4 My heart reels; horror terrorizes me; The twilight I longed for has been turned for me into trembling. 
Isaiah21:5 They set the table, they spread out the cloth, they eat, they drink; “Rise up, commanders, oil the shields,”" 
Isaiah21:6 For thus the Lord says to me, “Go, station the lookout, let him declare what he sees." 
Isaiah21:7 Indeed, he shall see riders, horsemen in pairs, Riders of donkeys, riders of camels, So let him pay close attention, very close attention.”" 
Isaiah21:8 Then the lookout called, “O Lord, I stand continually by day on the watchtower, And I am stationed every night at my guard post." 
Isaiah21:9 Now behold, here comes a troop of riders, horsemen in pairs.” And one answered and said, “Fallen, fallen is Babylon; And all the graven images of her gods are shattered on the ground.”" 
Isaiah21:10 O my trampled people and my afflicted of the threshing floor! What I have heard from Yahweh of hosts, The God of Israel, I have declared to you." 
Isaiah21:11 The oracle concerning Dumah. One keeps calling to me from Seir, “Watchman, how far gone is the night? Watchman, how far gone is the night?”" 
Isaiah21:12 The watchman says, “Morning comes but also night. If you would inquire, inquire; Come back again.”" 
Isaiah21:13 The oracle about Arabia. In the thickets of Arabia you must spend the night, O caravans of Dedanites." 
Isaiah21:14 Bring water to meet the thirsty, O inhabitants of the land of Tema, Meet with bread the one who has fled." 
Isaiah21:15 For they have fled from the swords, From the drawn sword, and from the bent bow And from the heaviness of battle." 
Isaiah21:16 For thus the Lord said to me, “In a year, as a hired man would count it, all the glory of Kedar will end;" 
Isaiah21:17 and the remainder of the number of bowmen, the mighty men of the sons of Kedar, will be few; for Yahweh, the God of Israel, has spoken.”" 
Isaiah22:1 The oracle concerning the valley of vision. What is the matter with you now, that you have all gone up to the housetops?" 
Isaiah22:2 You who were full of noise, You roaring city, you exultant town; Your slain were not slain with the sword, Nor did they die in battle." 
Isaiah22:3 All your rulers have fled together, And have been captured without the bow; All of you who were found were captured together, Though they had fled far away." 
Isaiah22:4 Therefore I say, “Turn your gaze away from me, Let me weep bitterly, Do not insist on comforting me concerning the destruction of the daughter of my people.”" 
Isaiah22:5 For Lord Yahweh of hosts has a day of confusion, oppression, and panic In the valley of vision, A breaking down of walls And a crying to the mountain." 
Isaiah22:6 Now Elam took up the quiver With the chariots, infantry, and horsemen; And Kir uncovered the shield." 
Isaiah22:7 Then your choicest valleys were full of chariots, And the horsemen took up fixed positions at the gate." 
Isaiah22:8 And He revealed the defense of Judah. In that day you looked to the weapons of the house of the forest," 
Isaiah22:9 And you saw that the breaches In the wall of the city of David were many; And you collected the waters of the lower pool. 
Isaiah22:10 Then you counted the houses of Jerusalem And tore down houses to fortify the wall. 
Isaiah22:11 And you made a reservoir between the two walls For the waters of the old pool. But you did not look to Him who made it, Nor did you see Him who formed it long ago." 
Isaiah22:12 Therefore in that day Lord Yahweh of hosts called you to weeping, to wailing, To shaving the head, and to wearing sackcloth." 
Isaiah22:13 Instead, behold, there is joy and gladness, Killing of cattle and slaughtering of sheep, Eating of meat and drinking of wine: “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we may die.”" 
Isaiah22:14 But Yahweh of hosts revealed Himself in my ears, “Surely this iniquity shall not be atoned for you Until you die,” says Lord Yahweh of hosts." 
Isaiah22:15 Thus says Lord Yahweh of hosts, “Come, go to this steward, To Shebna, who is in charge of the royal household," 
Isaiah22:16 ‘What right do you have here, And whom do you have here, That you have hewn a tomb for yourself here, You who hew a tomb on the height, You who carve a dwelling place for yourself in the cliff?" 
Isaiah22:17 Behold, Yahweh is about to hurl you headlong, O man. And He is about to grasp you firmly" 
Isaiah22:18 And He will surely roll you tightly like a ball, To be cast into a vast country; There you will die, And there your glorious chariots will be, You disgrace of your master’s house.’" 
Isaiah22:19 I will push you out of your office, And I will pull you down from your station." 
Isaiah22:20 Then it will be in that day, That I will summon My servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah," 
Isaiah22:21 And I will clothe him with your tunic And tie your sash securely about him. I will give your authority into his hand, And he will become a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah." 
Isaiah22:22 Then I will set the key of the house of David on his shoulder, When he opens no one will shut, When he shuts no one will open." 
Isaiah22:23 I will drive him like a peg in a firm place, And he will become a throne of glory to his father’s house." 
Isaiah22:24 So they will hang on him all the glory of his father’s house, offspring and issue, all the least of vessels, from bowls to all the jars." 
Isaiah22:25 In that day,” declares Yahweh of hosts, “the peg driven in a firm place will give way; it will even break off and fall, and the load hanging on it will be cut off, for Yahweh has spoken.”" 
Isaiah23:1 The oracle concerning Tyre. Wail, O ships of Tarshish, For Tyre is destroyed, without house or harbor; It is revealed to them from the land of Cyprus." 
Isaiah23:2 Be silent, you inhabitants of the coastland, You merchants of Sidon; Your messengers crossed the sea" 
Isaiah23:3 And were on many waters. The grain of Shihor, the harvest of the Nile was her revenue; And she was the nations’ gain." 
Isaiah23:4 Be ashamed, O Sidon; For the sea speaks, the strong defense of the sea, saying, “I have neither travailed nor given birth; I have neither brought up choice men nor reared virgins.”" 
Isaiah23:5 When the report reaches Egypt, They will be in travail at the report of Tyre." 
Isaiah23:6 Pass over to Tarshish; Wail, O inhabitants of the coastland." 
Isaiah23:7 Is this your exultant city, Whose origin is from days of old, Whose feet used to lead her to sojourn in distant places?" 
Isaiah23:8 Who has counseled this against Tyre, the bestower of crowns, Whose merchants were princes, whose traders were the honored of the earth?" 
Isaiah23:9 Yahweh of hosts has counseled it, to defile the pride of all beauty, To make contemptuous all the honored of the earth." 
Isaiah23:10 Overflow your land like the Nile, O daughter of Tarshish; There is no more restraint." 
Isaiah23:11 He has stretched His hand out over the sea; He has made the kingdoms tremble; Yahweh has given a command concerning Canaan to demolish its strong defenses. 
Isaiah23:12 So He said, “You shall exult no more, O crushed virgin daughter of Sidon. Arise, pass over to Cyprus; even there you will find no rest.”" 
Isaiah23:13 Behold, the land of the Chaldeans—this is the people which was not; Assyria established it for desert creatures—they erected their siege towers, they stripped its palaces, they made it a ruin." 
Isaiah23:14 Wail, O ships of Tarshish, For your strong defense is destroyed." 
Isaiah23:15 Now it will be in that day, that Tyre will be forgotten for seventy years like the days of one king. At the end of seventy years it will happen to Tyre as in the song of the harlot:" 
Isaiah23:16 Take your harp, walk about the city, O forgotten harlot; Pluck the strings skillfully, sing many songs, That you may be remembered." 
Isaiah23:17 And it will be at the end of seventy years that Yahweh will visit Tyre. Then she will go back to her harlot’s wages and will play the harlot with all the kingdoms on the face of the earth. 
Isaiah23:18 And her gain and her harlot’s wages will be set apart to Yahweh; it will not be treasured up or hoarded, but her gain will become sufficient food and choice attire for those who inhabit the presence of Yahweh." 
Isaiah24:1 Behold, Yahweh empties the earth to destruction, eviscerates it, distorts its surface, and scatters its inhabitants." 
Isaiah24:2 And the people will be like the priest, the male slave like his master, the female slave like her mistress, the buyer like the seller, the lender like the borrower, the creditor like the debtor." 
Isaiah24:3 The earth will be completely emptied to destruction and completely plundered, for Yahweh has spoken this word." 
Isaiah24:4 The earth mourns and withers; the world languishes and withers; the exalted of the people of the earth languish. 
Isaiah24:5 The earth is also polluted by its inhabitants, for they trespassed laws, violated statutes, broke the everlasting covenant." 
Isaiah24:6 Therefore, a curse devours the earth, and those who inhabit it are held guilty. Therefore, the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men remain." 
Isaiah24:7 The new wine mourns; The vine languishes; All the glad of heart sigh. 
Isaiah24:8 The joy of tambourines ceases; The rumbling of those exulting stops; The joy of the harp ceases. 
Isaiah24:9 They do not drink wine with song; Strong drink is bitter to those who drink it. 
Isaiah24:10 The city of chaos is broken down; Every house is shut up so that none may enter. 
Isaiah24:11 There is an outcry in the streets concerning the wine; All gladness turns to gloom. The joy of the earth is taken away into exile. 
Isaiah24:12 Desolation remains in the city, And the gate is struck down to ruins." 
Isaiah24:13 For thus it will be in the midst of the earth among the peoples, As the shaking of an olive tree, As the gleanings when the grape harvest is over." 
Isaiah24:14 They lift up their voices, they shout for joy; They cry out from the west concerning the majesty of Yahweh." 
Isaiah24:15 Therefore glorify Yahweh in the east, The name of Yahweh, the God of Israel, In the coastlands of the sea." 
Isaiah24:16 From the ends of the earth we hear songs, “Glory to the Righteous One,” But I say, “I waste away! I waste away! Woe is me! The treacherous deal treacherously, And the treacherous deal very treacherously.”" 
Isaiah24:17 Panic and pit and pitfall Are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth." 
Isaiah24:18 Then it will be that he who flees the sound of panic will fall into the pit, And he who climbs out of the pit will be caught in the pitfall; For the windows above are opened, and the foundations of the earth quake." 
Isaiah24:19 The earth is broken asunder; The earth is split through; The earth is shaken violently. 
Isaiah24:20 The earth reels to and fro like a drunkard And it totters like a shack, For its transgression is heavy upon it, And it will fall, never to rise again." 
Isaiah24:21 So it will be in that day, That Yahweh will punish the host of heights on high, And the kings of the earth on earth." 
Isaiah24:22 They will be gathered together Like prisoners in the pit, And will be confined in prison; And after many days they will be punished." 
Isaiah24:23 Then the moon will be humiliated and the sun ashamed, For Yahweh of hosts will reign on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, And His glory will be before His elders." 
Isaiah25:1 O Yahweh, You are my God; I will exalt You, I will give thanks to Your name; For You have worked wonders, Counsels formed long ago, with perfect faithfulness." 
Isaiah25:2 For You have made a city into a heap, A fortified town into a ruin; A palace of strangers is a city no more, It will never be rebuilt." 
Isaiah25:3 Therefore a strong people will glorify You; Towns of ruthless nations will fear You. 
Isaiah25:4 For You have been a strong defense for the poor, A strong defense for the needy in his distress, A refuge from the storm, a shade from the heat; For the breath of the ruthless Is like a rain storm against a wall." 
Isaiah25:5 Like heat in a dry land, You subdue the rumbling of strangers; Like heat by the shadow of a cloud, the song of the ruthless is silenced." 
Isaiah25:6 And Yahweh of hosts will prepare a lavish banquet for all peoples on this mountain; A banquet of aged wine, choice pieces with marrow, And refined, aged wine." 
Isaiah25:7 And on this mountain He will swallow up the covering which is over all peoples, Even the veil which is stretched over all nations." 
Isaiah25:8 He will swallow up death for all time, And Lord Yahweh will wipe tears away from all faces, And He will remove the reproach of His people from all the earth; For Yahweh has spoken." 
Isaiah25:9 And it will be said in that day, “Behold, this is our God in whom we have hoped that He would save us. This is Yahweh in whom we have hoped; Let us rejoice and be glad in His salvation.”" 
Isaiah25:10 For the hand of Yahweh will rest on this mountain, And Moab will be trodden down in his place As straw is trodden down in the water of a manure pile." 
Isaiah25:11 And he will spread out his hands in the middle of it As a swimmer spreads out his hands to swim, But Yahweh will lay low his lofty pride together with the trickery of his hands." 
Isaiah25:12 The unassailable fortifications of your walls He will bring down, Lay low, and cast to the ground, even to the dust." 
Isaiah26:1 In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah: “We have a strong city; He sets up walls and ramparts for salvation. 
Isaiah26:2 Open the gates, that the righteous nation may enter, The one that keeps faithfulness." 
Isaiah26:3 The steadfast of mind You will keep in perfect peace Because he trusts in You. 
Isaiah26:4 Trust in Yahweh forever, For in Yah—Yahweh Himself—we have an everlasting Rock." 
Isaiah26:5 For He has laid low those who settle on high, the exalted city; He brings it low, He brings it low to the ground, He casts it to the dust." 
Isaiah26:6 The foot will trample it, The feet of the afflicted, the steps of the poor.”" 
Isaiah26:7 The way of the righteous is upright; O Upright One, make the path of the righteous level." 
Isaiah26:8 Indeed, while following the way of Your judgments, O Yahweh, We have hoped for You eagerly; Your name—the memory of You—is the desire of our souls." 
Isaiah26:9 At night my soul longs for You, Indeed, my spirit within me seeks You earnestly; For when the earth experiences Your judgments, The inhabitants of the world learn righteousness." 
Isaiah26:10 Though the wicked is shown favor, He does not learn righteousness; He deals unjustly in the land of uprightness, And does not perceive the majesty of Yahweh." 
Isaiah26:11 O Yahweh, Your hand is raised up high, yet they do not behold it. They behold Your zeal for the people and are put to shame; Indeed, fire will devour Your adversaries." 
Isaiah26:12 Yahweh, You will establish peace for us, Since You have also performed for us all our works." 
Isaiah26:13 O Yahweh our God, other masters besides You have ruled us; But through You alone we bring Your name to remembrance." 
Isaiah26:14 The dead will not live; the departed spirits will not rise; Therefore You have visited and destroyed them, And You have made all remembrance of them perish." 
Isaiah26:15 You have increased the nation, O Yahweh; You have increased the nation, You are glorified; You have extended all the borders of the land." 
Isaiah26:16 O Yahweh, they visited You in distress; They could only whisper a prayer; Your chastening was upon them." 
Isaiah26:17 As the woman with child draws near to the time to give birth, She writhes and cries out in her pangs of labor, Thus were we before You, O Yahweh." 
Isaiah26:18 We were with child, we writhed in labor; We gave birth, as it seems, only to wind. We could not accomplish salvation for the earth, And the inhabitants of the world were not born." 
Isaiah26:19 Your dead will live; Their corpses will rise. You who dwell in the dust, awake and shout for joy, For your dew is as the dew of the dawn, And the earth will give birth to the departed spirits." 
Isaiah26:20 Come, my people, enter into your rooms And close your doors behind you; Hide for a little while Until indignation passes by." 
Isaiah26:21 For behold, Yahweh is about to come out from His place To visit the iniquity of the inhabitants of the earth; And the earth will reveal her bloodshed And will no longer cover those of hers who were killed." 
Isaiah27:1 In that day Yahweh will punish Leviathan the fleeing serpent, With His fierce and great and mighty sword, Even Leviathan the twisted serpent; And He will kill the dragon who lives in the sea." 
Isaiah27:2 In that day, “A vineyard of delight, sing of it!" 
Isaiah27:3 I, Yahweh, am its keeper; I water it every moment. Lest anyone damage it, I keep it night and day." 
Isaiah27:4 I have no wrath. Who would ever give Me briars and thorns in the battle? I would step on them, I would burn them completely." 
Isaiah27:5 Or let him rely on My strong defense, Let him make peace with Me, Let him make peace with Me.”" 
Isaiah27:6 In the days to come Jacob will take root, Israel will blossom and bud, And they will fill the whole world with produce." 
Isaiah27:7 Like the striking of Him who has struck them, has He struck them? Or like the slaughter of those of His who were killed, have they been killed?" 
Isaiah27:8 You contended with them by driving them away, by making them forlorn. With His fierce wind He has expelled them on the day of the east wind." 
Isaiah27:9 Therefore through this, Jacob’s iniquity will be atoned for; And this will be the whole fruit of the turning away of his sin: When he makes all the altar stones like pulverized chalk stones, When Asherim and incense altars will not stand." 
Isaiah27:10 For the fortified city is isolated, A haunt forlorn and forsaken like the desert; There the calf will graze, And there it will lie down and feed on its twigs." 
Isaiah27:11 When its limbs are dry, they are broken off; Women come and light a fire with them, For they are not a people of discernment, Therefore their Maker will not have compassion on them. And their Creator will not be gracious to them." 
Isaiah27:12 And it will be in that day, that Yahweh will start His threshing from the flowing stream of the River to the brook of Egypt, and you will be gathered up one by one, O sons of Israel." 
Isaiah27:13 And it will be in that day, that a great trumpet will be blown, and those who were perishing in the land of Assyria and who were banished in the land of Egypt will come and worship Yahweh in the holy mountain at Jerusalem." 
Isaiah28:1 Woe to the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim, And to the fading flower of its glorious beauty, Which is at the head of the fertile valley Of those who are overcome with wine!" 
Isaiah28:2 Behold, the Lord has a strong and courageous agent; As a storm of hail, a tempest of destruction, Like a storm of mighty overflowing waters, He has set it down to the earth with His hand." 
Isaiah28:3 The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim is trodden under foot. 
Isaiah28:4 And the fading flower of its glorious beauty, Which is at the head of the fertile valley, Will be like the first‑ripe fig prior to summer, Which one sees, And as soon as it is in his hand, He swallows it." 
Isaiah28:5 In that day Yahweh of hosts will become a beautiful crown And a glorious diadem to the remnant of His people; 
Isaiah28:6 A spirit of just judgment for him who sits in judgment, A might to those who turn back the onslaught at the gate." 
Isaiah28:7 And these also reel with wine and stagger from strong drink: The priest and the prophet reel with strong drink; They are swallowed up by wine, they stagger from strong drink; They reel while having visions; They totter when rendering a verdict." 
Isaiah28:8 For all the tables are full of filthy vomit, without a single clean place." 
Isaiah28:9 “Whom would He instruct in knowledge, And whom would He provide understanding about the report? Those just weaned from milk? Those just taken from the breast?" 
Isaiah28:10 For He says, ‘Order on order, order on order, Line on line, line on line, A little here, a little there.’”" 
Isaiah28:11 Indeed, He will speak to this people Through stammering lips and a foreign tongue," 
Isaiah28:12 He who said to them, “Here is rest, give rest to the weary,” And, “Here is repose,” but they would not listen." 
Isaiah28:13 So the word of Yahweh to them will be, “Order on order, order on order, Line on line, line on line, A little here, a little there,” That they may go and stumble backward, be broken, snared, and taken captive." 
Isaiah28:14 Therefore, hear the word of Yahweh, O scoffers, Who rule this people who are in Jerusalem," 
Isaiah28:15 Because you have said, “We have cut a covenant with death, And with Sheol we have made a pact. The overflowing scourge will not reach us when it passes by, For we have made falsehood our refuge and we have hidden ourselves with lying.”" 
Isaiah28:16 Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a tested stone, A costly cornerstone for the foundation, firmly placed. He who believes in it will not be disturbed." 
Isaiah28:17 I will make justice the measuring line And righteousness the level; Then hail will sweep away the refuge of falsehood, And the waters will overflow the secret place." 
Isaiah28:18 Your covenant with death will be canceled, And your pact with Sheol will not stand; When the overflowing scourge passes through, Then you will become its trampling place." 
Isaiah28:19 As often as it passes through, it will take you; For morning after morning it will pass through, anytime during the day or night, And it will be sheer terror to understand the report.”" 
Isaiah28:20 The bed is too short on which to stretch out, And the blanket is too narrow to wrap oneself in." 
Isaiah28:21 For Yahweh will rise up as at Mount Perazim; He will be stirred up as in the valley of Gibeon, To work His work, His unusual work, And to labor in His labor, His exceptional labor." 
Isaiah28:22 So now do not carry on as scoffers, Lest your fetters be made stronger; For I have heard from Lord Yahweh of hosts Of complete destruction, one that is decreed, on all the earth." 
Isaiah28:23 Give ear and hear my voice, Pay attention and hear my words." 
Isaiah28:24 Does the farmer plow continually to plant seed? Does he continually turn and harrow his ground? 
Isaiah28:25 Does he not level its surface And sow dill and scatter cumin And plant wheat in rows, Barley in its place and rye within its area?" 
Isaiah28:26 For his God disciplines and teaches him proper judgment. 
Isaiah28:27 For dill is not threshed with a threshing sledge, Nor is the wheel of a cart driven over cumin; But dill is beaten out with a staff, and cumin with a rod." 
Isaiah28:28 Grain for bread is crushed, But he does not continue to thresh it forever. Because the wheel of his cart and his horses eventually disturb it, He does not crush it longer." 
Isaiah28:29 This also comes from Yahweh of hosts, Who has made His counsel wonderful and His wisdom great." 
Isaiah29:1 Woe, O Ariel, Ariel the city where David once camped! Add year to year, observe your feasts on schedule." 
Isaiah29:2 I will bring distress to Ariel, And she will be a city of mourning and moaning; And she will be like an Ariel to me." 
Isaiah29:3 And I will camp against you encircling you, And I will fortify siegeworks against you, And I will raise up fortifications against you." 
Isaiah29:4 Then you will be brought low; From the earth you will speak, And from the dust where you are prostrate Your words will come. Your voice will also be like that of a spirit from the ground, And your speech will whisper from the dust." 
Isaiah29:5 But it will be that the multitude of your enemies will become like fine dust, And the multitude of the ruthless ones like the chaff which blows away; And it will happen instantly, suddenly." 
Isaiah29:6 From Yahweh of hosts you will be punished with thunder and earthquake and loud noise, With whirlwind and tempest and the flame of a consuming fire." 
Isaiah29:7 And it will be that the multitude of all the nations who wage war against Ariel, Even all who wage war against her and her stronghold, and who distress her, Will be like a dream, a vision of the night." 
Isaiah29:8 And it will be as when a hungry man dreams— And behold, he is eating; But he awakens, and his soul is empty, Or as when a thirsty man dreams— And behold, he is drinking, But he awakens, and behold, he is faint, And his soul is not quenched. Thus the multitude of all the nations will be Who wage war against Mount Zion." 
Isaiah29:9 Astonish yourselves and be astonished, Blind yourselves and be blind; They become drunk, but not with wine; They stagger, but not with strong drink." 
Isaiah29:10 For Yahweh has poured over you a spirit of deep sleep; He has shut your eyes, the prophets; And He has covered your heads, the seers." 
Isaiah29:11 The entire vision will be to you like the words of a sealed book, which when they give it to the one who is literate, saying, “Please read this,” he will say, “I cannot, for it is sealed.”" 
Isaiah29:12 Then the book will be given to the one who does not know how to read a book, saying, “Please read this.” And he will say, “I do not know how to read a book.”" 
Isaiah29:13 Then the Lord said, “Because this people draw near with their mouth And honor Me with their lips, But they remove their hearts far from Me, And their fear of Me is in the command of men learned by rote," 
Isaiah29:14 Therefore behold, I will once again deal marvelously with this people, wondrously marvelous; And the wisdom of their wise men will perish, And the discernment of their discerning men will be hidden.”" 
Isaiah29:15 Woe to those who deeply hide their counsel from Yahweh, And whose deeds are done in a dark place, And they say, “Who sees us?” or “Who knows us?”" 
Isaiah29:16 You turn things around! Shall the potter be considered as equal with the clay, That what is made would say to its maker, “He did not make me”; Or what is formed say to him who formed it, “He has no understanding”?" 
Isaiah29:17 Is it not yet just a little while Before Lebanon will be turned into a fruitful orchard, And the fruitful orchard will be counted as a forest?" 
Isaiah29:18 On that day the deaf will hear words of a book, And out of darkness and thick darkness the eyes of the blind will see." 
Isaiah29:19 The afflicted also will increase their gladness in Yahweh, And the needy of mankind will rejoice in the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah29:20 For the ruthless will come to an end and the scoffer will be finished, Indeed all who are watching out to do evil will be cut off;" 
Isaiah29:21 Who cause a person to sin by a word, And ensnare him who reproves at the gate, And defraud the one in the right with meaningless arguments." 
Isaiah29:22 Therefore thus says Yahweh, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob: “Jacob shall not now be ashamed, and now his face shall not turn pale;" 
Isaiah29:23 But when he sees his children, the work of My hands, in his midst, They will sanctify My name; Indeed, they will sanctify the Holy One of Jacob And will stand trembling before the God of Israel." 
Isaiah29:24 Those who err in spirit will know discernment, And those who criticize will gain learning." 
Isaiah30:1 “Woe to the rebellious children,” declares Yahweh, “Who execute counsel, but not Mine, And make an alliance, but not of My Spirit, In order to add sin to sin," 
Isaiah30:2 Who go down to Egypt— But did not ask Me— To find strength in the strong defense of Pharaoh And to take refuge in the shadow of Egypt! 
Isaiah30:3 Therefore the strong defense of Pharaoh will be your shame And the refuge in the shadow of Egypt, your dishonor." 
Isaiah30:4 For their princes are at Zoan And their messengers reach Hanes. 
Isaiah30:5 Everyone will be ashamed because of a people who cannot profit them, Who are not for help or profit, but for shame and also for reproach.”" 
Isaiah30:6 The oracle concerning the beasts of the Negev. Through a land of distress and anguish, From where come lioness and lion, viper and flying fiery serpent, They carry their wealth on the backs of young donkeys And their treasures on camels’ humps, To a people who cannot profit them;" 
Isaiah30:7 Even Egypt, whose help is vain and empty. Therefore, I have called her “Rahab who has ceased.”" 
Isaiah30:8 Now go, write it on a tablet before them And inscribe it on a scroll, That it may be in the time to come As a witness forever." 
Isaiah30:9 For this is a rebellious people, false sons, Sons who are not willing to listen To the law of Yahweh," 
Isaiah30:10 Who say to the seers, “You must not see,” And to those who have visions, “You must not behold visions for us of what is right, Speak to us pleasant words, Behold visions of illusions." 
Isaiah30:11 Get out of the way, turn aside from the path, Cease speaking before us about the Holy One of Israel.”" 
Isaiah30:12 Therefore thus says the Holy One of Israel, “Since you have rejected this word And have put your trust in oppression and deviousness and have relied on them," 
Isaiah30:13 Therefore this iniquity will be to you Like a breach about to fall, A bulge in a high wall, Whose breaking comes suddenly in an instant," 
Isaiah30:14 Whose breaking is like the breaking of a potter’s jar, So ruthlessly shattered That a potsherd will not be found among its pieces To take fire from a hearth Or to scoop water from a cistern.”" 
Isaiah30:15 For thus Lord Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel, has said, “In repentance and rest you will be saved, In quietness and trust is your might.” But you were not willing," 
Isaiah30:16 And you said, “No, for we will flee on horses,” Therefore you shall flee! “And we will ride on swift horses,” Therefore those who pursue you shall be swift." 
Isaiah30:17 One thousand will flee at the threat of one man; You will flee at the threat of five, Until you are left as a flag on a mountain top And as a standard on a hill." 
Isaiah30:18 Therefore Yahweh waits with longing to be gracious to you, And therefore He is on high to have compassion on you. For Yahweh is a God of justice; How blessed are all those who wait for Him." 
Isaiah30:19 O people in Zion, inhabitant in Jerusalem, you will weep no longer. He will surely be gracious to you at the sound of your cry; when He hears it, He will answer you." 
Isaiah30:20 The Lord has given you bread of distress and water of oppression; He, your Teacher will no longer hide Himself, but your eyes will see your Teacher." 
Isaiah30:21 And your ears will hear a word behind you, “This is the way, walk in it,” whenever you turn to the right or to the left." 
Isaiah30:22 And you will defile your graven images overlaid with your silver, and your molten images plated with your gold. You will scatter them as an impure thing and say to them, “Be gone!”" 
Isaiah30:23 Then He will give you rain for the seed which you will sow in the ground, and bread from the produce of the ground, and it will be rich and fat; on that day your livestock will graze in a roomy pasture." 
Isaiah30:24 Also the oxen and the donkeys which work the ground will eat salted fodder, which has been winnowed with shovel and fork." 
Isaiah30:25 And it will be that on every lofty mountain and on every lifted up hill there will be streams running with water on the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall." 
Isaiah30:26 And the light of the moon will be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be seven times brighter, like the light of seven days, on the day Yahweh binds up the fracture of His people and heals the bruise He has inflicted." 
Isaiah30:27 Behold, the name of Yahweh comes from afar; Burning is His anger and heavy is His smoke; His lips are filled with indignation And His tongue is like a consuming fire;" 
Isaiah30:28 His breath is like an overflowing torrent, Which reaches to the neck, To shake the nations back and forth in a sieve of worthlessness, And to put in the jaws of the peoples the bridle which staggers one to ruin." 
Isaiah30:29 You will have songs as in the night when you set yourself apart as holy for the festival, And gladness of heart as when one marches to the sound of the flute, To go to the mountain of Yahweh, to the Rock of Israel." 
Isaiah30:30 And Yahweh will cause His splendid voice to be heard, And the descending of His arm to be seen in raging anger, And in the flame of a consuming fire In cloudburst, downpour, and hailstones." 
Isaiah30:31 For at the voice of Yahweh Assyria will be dismayed, When He strikes with the rod." 
Isaiah30:32 And every blow of the appointed staff, Which Yahweh will cause to rest upon him, Will be with the music of tambourines and lyres; And in battles, waving weapons He will fight them." 
Isaiah30:33 For Topheth has long been ready, Indeed, it has been prepared for the king. He has made it deep and large, A pyre of fire with plenty of wood; The breath of Yahweh, like a torrent of brimstone, sets it afire." 
Isaiah31:1 Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help And rely on horses, And trust in chariots because they are many And in horsemen because they are very mighty, But they do not regard at the Holy One of Israel, nor seek Yahweh!" 
Isaiah31:2 Yet He also is wise and will bring about an evil demise And does not turn His words aside, But will arise against the house of evildoers And against the help of the workers of iniquity." 
Isaiah31:3 Now the Egyptians are men and not God, And their horses are flesh and not spirit; So Yahweh will stretch out His hand, And he who helps will stumble, And he who is helped will fall, And all of them will come to an end together." 
Isaiah31:4 For thus says Yahweh to me, “As the lion or the young lion growls over its prey, Against which a multitude of shepherds is called out, And it will not be dismayed at their voice nor afflicted at their noise, So will Yahweh of hosts come down to wage war on Mount Zion and on its hill.”" 
Isaiah31:5 Like flying birds so Yahweh of hosts will defend Jerusalem. He will defend and deliver it; He will pass over and provide a way of escape. 
Isaiah31:6 Return to Him against whom you have deeply rebelled, O sons of Israel." 
Isaiah31:7 For in that day every man will reject his silver idols and his gold idols, which your hands have made for you as a sin." 
Isaiah31:8 And the Assyrian will fall by a sword not of man, And a sword not of man will devour him. So he will flee from the sword, And his choice men will become forced laborers." 
Isaiah31:9 “His rock will pass away because of terror, And his princes will be dismayed at the standard,” Declares Yahweh, whose fire is in Zion and whose furnace is in Jerusalem." 
Isaiah32:1 Behold, a king will reign righteously And princes will rule justly." 
Isaiah32:2 Each will be like a refuge from the wind And a shelter from the storm, Like streams of water in a dry country, Like the shade of a huge rock in a weary land." 
Isaiah32:3 Then the eyes of those who see will not be blinded, And the ears of those who hear will pay attention." 
Isaiah32:4 And the heart of the hasty will discern knowledge, And the tongue of the stammerers will hasten to speak clearly." 
Isaiah32:5 No longer will the wicked fool be called noble, Or the rogue be spoken of as generous." 
Isaiah32:6 For a wicked fool speaks wicked folly, And his heart does wickedness: To do ungodliness and to speak error against Yahweh, In order to make the hungry person empty; He even causes the thirsty to lack a drink." 
Isaiah32:7 As for a rogue, his weapons are evil; He counsels wicked schemes To wreak destruction on the afflicted with lying words, Even though the needy one speaks justly." 
Isaiah32:8 But the noble man counsels noble plans; And by noble plans he rises up. 
Isaiah32:9 Rise up, you women who are at ease, And hear my voice; Give ear to my word, You complacent daughters." 
Isaiah32:10 Within a year and a few days You will quake, O complacent daughters; For the grape harvest is ended, And the fruit gathering will not come." 
Isaiah32:11 Tremble, you women who are at ease; Quake, you complacent daughters; Strip, undress, and put sackcloth on your waist," 
Isaiah32:12 Beat your breasts for the desirable fields, for the fruitful vine," 
Isaiah32:13 For the land of my people in which thorns and briars shall come up, Indeed, against all the joyful houses and the exultant city." 
Isaiah32:14 Because the palace has been abandoned, the populated city forsaken. Hill and watchtower have become caves forever, A joy for wild donkeys, a pasture for flocks," 
Isaiah32:15 Until the Spirit is poured out upon us from on high, And the wilderness becomes a fruitful orchard, And the fruitful orchard is counted as a forest." 
Isaiah32:16 Then justice will dwell in the wilderness, And righteousness will live in the fruitful orchard." 
Isaiah32:17 And the work of righteousness will be peace, And the service of righteousness, quietness and security forever." 
Isaiah32:18 Then my people will live in a peaceful abode, And in secure dwellings and in undisturbed resting places;" 
Isaiah32:19 And it will hail when the forest comes down, And the city will be utterly laid low." 
Isaiah32:20 How blessed will you be, you who sow beside all waters, Who let out freely the ox and the donkey." 
Isaiah33:1 Woe to you, O destroyer, While you were not destroyed; And he who is treacherous, while others did not deal treacherously with him. As soon as you finish destroying, you will be destroyed; As soon as you cease to deal treacherously, others will deal treacherously with you." 
Isaiah33:2 O Yahweh, be gracious to us; we have hoped in You. Be their strength every morning, Our salvation also in the time of distress." 
Isaiah33:3 At the sound of the tumult peoples flee; At the lifting up of Yourself nations scatter. 
Isaiah33:4 Your spoil is gathered as the caterpillar gathers; As locusts rushing about men rush about on it. 
Isaiah33:5 Yahweh is exalted, for He dwells on high; He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness." 
Isaiah33:6 And He will be the stability of your times, A wealth of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge; The fear of Yahweh is his treasure." 
Isaiah33:7 Behold, their brave men cry in the streets; The messengers of peace weep bitterly." 
Isaiah33:8 The highways are desolate, the traveler has ceased; He has broken the covenant, he has rejected the cities; He has no regard for man." 
Isaiah33:9 The land mourns and languishes, Lebanon is humiliated and withers; Sharon is like a desert plain, And Bashan and Carmel lose their foliage." 
Isaiah33:10 “Now I will be on high,” says Yahweh, “Now I will be lifted up, now I will be lifted up." 
Isaiah33:11 You have conceived chaff, you will give birth to stubble; My breath will consume you like a fire." 
Isaiah33:12 The peoples will be burned to lime, Like cut thorns which are burned in the fire." 
Isaiah33:13 “You who are far away, hear what I have done; And you who are near, acknowledge My might.”" 
Isaiah33:14 Sinners in Zion are in dread; Trembling has seized the godless. “Who among us can sojourn with the consuming fire? Who among us can sojourn with continual burning?” 
Isaiah33:15 He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly; He who rejects greedy gain of oppression, And shakes his hands so that they hold no bribe; He who stops his ears from hearing about bloodshed And shuts his eyes from looking upon evil;" 
Isaiah33:16 He will dwell on the heights, His refuge will be the strongholds of the cliffs; His bread will be given him, His water will be sure." 
Isaiah33:17 Your eyes will behold the King in His beauty; They will see a far‑distant land. 
Isaiah33:18 Your heart will meditate on terror: “Where is he who counts? Where is he who weighs? Where is he who counts the towers?” 
Isaiah33:19 You will no longer see a fierce people, A people of unintelligible speech which no one comprehends, Of a stammering tongue which no one understands." 
Isaiah33:20 Behold Zion, the city of our appointed times; Your eyes will see Jerusalem, an abode at ease, A tent which will not be folded; Its stakes will never be pulled up, Nor any of its cords ever be torn apart." 
Isaiah33:21 But there the Mighty One, Yahweh, will be for us A place of rivers and wide canals On which no boat with oars will go, And on which no mighty ship will pass—" 
Isaiah33:22 For Yahweh is our judge, Yahweh is our lawgiver, Yahweh is our king; He will save us—" 
Isaiah33:23 Your cords hang slack; They cannot hold the base of their mast firmly, Nor spread out the sail. Then the prey of an abundant spoil will be divided; The lame will take the plunder." 
Isaiah33:24 And no one who dwells there will say, “I am sick”; The people who inhabit there will be forgiven their iniquity." 
Isaiah34:1 Draw near, O nations, to hear; and pay attention, O peoples! Let the earth hear, as well as its fullness, the world and all that springs from it." 
Isaiah34:2 For the indignation of Yahweh is against all the nations, And His wrath against all their hosts; He has devoted them to destruction; He has given them over to slaughter." 
Isaiah34:3 So their slain will be cast out, And their corpses will give off their stench, And the mountains will be drenched with their blood." 
Isaiah34:4 And all the host of heaven will rot away, And the sky will be rolled up like a scroll; All their hosts will also wither away As a leaf withers from the vine, Or as one withers from the fig tree." 
Isaiah34:5 For My sword is satiated in heaven; Behold, it shall descend for judgment upon Edom And upon the people whom I have devoted to destruction." 
Isaiah34:6 The sword of Yahweh is filled with blood; It is sated with fat, with the blood of lambs and goats, With the fat of the kidneys of rams. For Yahweh has a sacrifice in Bozrah And a great slaughter in the land of Edom." 
Isaiah34:7 And wild oxen will also fall with them, And young bulls with strong ones; Thus their land will be soaked with blood, And their dust become greasy with fat." 
Isaiah34:8 For Yahweh has a day of vengeance, A year of recompense for the cause of Zion." 
Isaiah34:9 And its streams will be turned into pitch, And its dust into brimstone, And its land will become burning pitch." 
Isaiah34:10 It will not be quenched night or day; Its smoke will go up forever. From generation to generation it will be laid waste; None will pass through it forever and ever. 
Isaiah34:11 But pelican and hedgehog will possess it, And owl and raven will dwell in it; And He will stretch over it the line of utter formlessness And the plumb line of utter void." 
Isaiah34:12 Its nobles—there is no one there Whom they may proclaim king— And all its princes will be non‑existent. 
Isaiah34:13 And thorns will come up in its fortified towers, Weeds and thistles in its fortified cities; It will also be a haunt of jackals And an abode of ostriches." 
Isaiah34:14 And the desert creatures will meet with the wolves; The hairy goat also will cry to its kind; Surely, the night creature will obtain relief there And will find itself a resting place." 
Isaiah34:15 The owl will make its nest and find its escape there, And it will hatch its eggs and gather them in its shade. Surely, the falcons will be gathered there, Every one with its kind." 
Isaiah34:16 Seek from the book of Yahweh, and read: Not one of these will be missing; None will lack its mate. For His mouth has commanded, And His Spirit has gathered them." 
Isaiah34:17 He has cast the lot for them, And His hand has divided it to them by line. They shall possess it forever; From generation to generation they will dwell in it." 
Isaiah35:1 The wilderness and the desert will be delighted, And the Arabah will rejoice and flourish; Like the crocus" 
Isaiah35:2 It will flourish profusely And rejoice with rejoicing and shout of joy. The glory of Lebanon will be given to it, The majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They will see the glory of Yahweh, The majesty of our God." 
Isaiah35:3 Strengthen limp hands, and give courage to the knees of the stumbling." 
Isaiah35:4 Say to those with an anxious heart, “Be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance; The recompense of God will come, But He will save you.”" 
Isaiah35:5 Then the eyes of the blind will be opened, And the ears of the deaf will be unstopped." 
Isaiah35:6 Then the lame will leap like a deer, And the tongue of the mute will shout for joy. For waters will break forth in the wilderness And streams in the Arabah." 
Isaiah35:7 Then the scorched land will become a pool And the thirsty ground springs of water; In the haunt of jackals, its resting place, Grass becomes reeds and rushes." 
Isaiah35:8 And a roadway will be there, a highway, And it will be called the Highway of Holiness. The unclean will not pass by on it, But it will be for him who walks in that way, And ignorant fools will not wander on it." 
Isaiah35:9 No lion will be there, Nor will any vicious beast go up on it; These will not be found there. But the redeemed will walk there," 
Isaiah35:10 And the ransomed of Yahweh will return And come with joyful shouting to Zion, With everlasting gladness upon their heads. They will attain delight and gladness, And sorrow and sighing will flee away." 
Isaiah36:1 Now it happened in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, that Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and seized them." 
Isaiah36:2 And the king of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem to King Hezekiah with a heavy military force. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pool on the highway of the fuller’s field. 
Isaiah36:3 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came out to him." 
Isaiah36:4 Then Rabshakeh said to them, “Say now to Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria, “What is this trust that you have?" 
Isaiah36:5 I say, ‘Your counsel and might for the war are only empty words.’ Now in whom do you trust, that you have rebelled against me?" 
Isaiah36:6 Behold, you trust in the staff of this crushed reed, even on Egypt, on which if a man leans, it will go into his hand and pierce it. So is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him." 
Isaiah36:7 But if you say to me, ‘We trust in Yahweh our God,’ is it not He whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away and has said to Judah and to Jerusalem, ‘You shall worship before this altar’?" 
Isaiah36:8 So now, come make a bargain with my master the king of Assyria, and I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to give riders for them." 
Isaiah36:9 How then can you turn away one official of the least of my master’s servants and trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? 
Isaiah36:10 So now, have I come up without the approval of Yahweh against this land to make it a ruin? Yahweh said to me, ‘Go up against this land and make it a ruin.’”’”" 
Isaiah36:11 Then Eliakim and Shebna and Joah said to Rabshakeh, “Speak now to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it; and do not speak with us in Judean in the hearing of the people who are on the wall.”" 
Isaiah36:12 But Rabshakeh said, “Has my master sent me only to your master and to you to speak these words, and not to the men who sit on the wall, doomed to eat their own dung and drink their own urine with you?”" 
Isaiah36:13 Then Rabshakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in Judean and said, “Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria." 
Isaiah36:14 Thus says the king, ‘Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you;" 
Isaiah36:15 and do not let Hezekiah make you trust in Yahweh, saying, “Yahweh will surely deliver us, this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.”" 
Isaiah36:16 Do not listen to Hezekiah,’ for thus says the king of Assyria, ‘Make your peace with me and come out to me, and eat each of his vine and each of his fig tree, and drink each of the waters of his own cistern," 
Isaiah36:17 until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards." 
Isaiah36:18 Beware lest Hezekiah mislead you, saying, “Yahweh will deliver us.” Has any one of the gods of the nations delivered his land from the hand of the king of Assyria?" 
Isaiah36:19 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? And when have they delivered Samaria from my hand? 
Isaiah36:20 Who among all the gods of these lands have delivered their land from my hand, that Yahweh would deliver Jerusalem from my hand?’”" 
Isaiah36:21 But they were silent and answered him not a word, for the king’s commandment was, “Do not answer him.”" 
Isaiah36:22 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn and told him the words of Rabshakeh." 
Isaiah37:1 Now it happened that when King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth, and entered the house of Yahweh." 
Isaiah37:2 Then he sent Eliakim, who was over the household with Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz." 
Isaiah37:3 And they said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, ‘This day is a day of distress, reproof, and rejection; for children have come to the point of breaking forth, but there is no strength to give birth." 
Isaiah37:4 Perhaps Yahweh your God will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove the words which Yahweh your God has heard. Therefore, lift up a prayer for the remnant that is left.’”" 
Isaiah37:5 So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah. 
Isaiah37:6 And Isaiah said to them, “Thus you shall say to your master, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which the young men of the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me." 
Isaiah37:7 Behold, I will put a spirit in him so that he will hear a report and return to his own land. And I will make him fall by the sword in his own land.”’”" 
Isaiah37:8 Then Rabshakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, for he had heard that the king had set out from Lachish." 
Isaiah37:9 Then he heard them say concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, “He has come out to fight against you.” So he heard it and sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying," 
Isaiah37:10 “Thus you shall say to Hezekiah king of Judah, ‘Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, “Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.”" 
Isaiah37:11 Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the lands, devoting them to destruction. So will you be delivered?" 
Isaiah37:12 Did the gods of those nations, which my fathers have brought to ruin, deliver them, even Gozan and Haran and Rezeph and the sons of Eden who were in Telassar?" 
Isaiah37:13 Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, and of Hena and Ivvah?’”" 
Isaiah37:14 Then Hezekiah took the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it, and he went up to the house of Yahweh and spread it out before Yahweh." 
Isaiah37:15 And Hezekiah prayed to Yahweh saying," 
Isaiah37:16 “O Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, who is enthroned above the cherubim, You are the God, You alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth." 
Isaiah37:17 Incline Your ear, O Yahweh, and hear; open Your eyes, O Yahweh, and see; and listen to all the words of Sennacherib, who sent them to reproach the living God." 
Isaiah37:18 Truly, O Yahweh, the kings of Assyria have laid waste to all the countries and their lands" 
Isaiah37:19 and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone. So they have destroyed them." 
Isaiah37:20 But now, O Yahweh our God, save us from his hand that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that You are Yahweh, You alone.”" 
Isaiah37:21 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent word to Hezekiah, saying, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Because you have prayed to Me about Sennacherib king of Assyria," 
Isaiah37:22 this is the word that Yahweh has spoken against him: “She has despised you and mocked you, The virgin daughter of Zion; She has shaken her head behind you, The daughter of Jerusalem!" 
Isaiah37:23 Whom have you reproached and blasphemed? And against whom have you heightened your voice And haughtily lifted up your eyes? Against the Holy One of Israel! 
Isaiah37:24 Through your servants you have reproached the Lord, And you have said, ‘With my many chariots I came up to the heights of the mountains, To the remotest parts of Lebanon; And I cut down its tall cedars and its choice cypresses. And I will go to its highest peak, its thickest forest." 
Isaiah37:25 I dug wells and drank waters, And with the sole of my feet I dried up All the rivers of Egypt.’" 
Isaiah37:26 Have you not heard? Long ago I did it; From days of old I formed it. Now I have brought it to pass, That you should devastate fortified cities into ruinous heaps." 
Isaiah37:27 So their inhabitants were short of power; They were dismayed and put to shame; They were as the plant of the field and as the green herb, As grass on the rooftops is scorched before it rises." 
Isaiah37:28 But I know your sitting down And your going out and your coming in And your raging against Me. 
Isaiah37:29 Because of your raging against Me And because your presumptuousness has come up to My ears, Therefore I will put My hook in your nose And My bridle in your lips, And I will turn you back by the way which you came." 
Isaiah37:30 “Then this shall be the sign for you: you will eat this year what grows of its own accord, in the second year what springs from the same, and in the third year sow, reap, plant vineyards, and eat their fruit." 
Isaiah37:31 And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah will again take root downward and bear fruit upward. 
Isaiah37:32 For out of Jerusalem will go forth a remnant and out of Mount Zion survivors. The zeal of Yahweh of hosts will do this.”’ 
Isaiah37:33 “Therefore, thus says Yahweh concerning the king of Assyria, ‘He will not come to this city or shoot an arrow there; and he will not come before it with a shield or throw up a siege ramp against it." 
Isaiah37:34 By the way that he came, by the same he will return, and he will not come to this city,’ declares Yahweh." 
Isaiah37:35 ‘Indeed I will defend this city to save it for My own sake and for My servant David’s sake.’” 
Isaiah37:36 Then the angel of Yahweh went out and struck 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians. And the men arose early in the morning, and behold, all of them were dead bodies." 
Isaiah37:37 So Sennacherib king of Assyria set out and returned home and lived at Nineveh. 
Isaiah37:38 Now it happened that as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons struck him down with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son became king in his place." 
Isaiah38:1 In those days Hezekiah became ill to the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live.’”" 
Isaiah38:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to Yahweh 
Isaiah38:3 and said, “Remember now, O Yahweh, I beseech You, how I have walked before You in truth and with a whole heart and have done what is good in Your sight.” And Hezekiah wept greatly." 
Isaiah38:4 Then the word of Yahweh came to Isaiah, saying," 
Isaiah38:5 “Go and say to Hezekiah, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of your father David, “I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears; behold, I will add fifteen years to your life." 
Isaiah38:6 And I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will defend this city.”’ 
Isaiah38:7 “Now this shall be the sign to you from Yahweh, that Yahweh will do this word that He has spoken:" 
Isaiah38:8 Behold, I will cause the shadow on the stairway, which has gone down with the sun on the stairway of Ahaz, to go back ten steps.” So the sun’s shadow went back ten steps on the stairway on which it had gone down." 
Isaiah38:9 A writing of Hezekiah king of Judah after his illness and recovery: 
Isaiah38:10 I said, “In the middle of my life I am to enter the gates of Sheol; I am to be deprived of the rest of my years.”" 
Isaiah38:11 I said, “I will not see Yah, Yah in the land of the living; I will look on man no more among the inhabitants of the world." 
Isaiah38:12 Like a shepherd’s tent my dwelling is pulled up and removed from me; As a weaver I rolled up my life. He cuts me off from the loom; From day until night You make an end of me. 
Isaiah38:13 I soothed my soul until morning. Like a lion—so He shatters all my bones; From day until night You make an end of me. 
Isaiah38:14 Like a swallow, like a crane, so I chirped; I moan like a dove; My eyes look wistfully to the heights; O Lord, I am oppressed, be my security." 
Isaiah38:15 “What shall I say? Indeed, He has spoken to me, and He Himself has done it; I will wander about all my years because of the bitterness of my soul." 
Isaiah38:16 O Lord, by these things men live, And in all these is the life of my spirit; O restore me to health and let me live!" 
Isaiah38:17 Behold, for my own well‑being I had great bitterness; But it is You who has held back my soul from the pit of nothingness, For You have cast all my sins behind Your back." 
Isaiah38:18 For Sheol cannot thank You; Death cannot praise You; Those who go down to the pit cannot keep watch for Your truth. 
Isaiah38:19 It is the living, the living who give thanks to You, as I do today; A father makes known to his sons about Your truth." 
Isaiah38:20 Yahweh is here to save me; So we will play my songs on stringed instruments All the days of our life at the house of Yahweh.” 
Isaiah38:21 Now Isaiah had said, “Let them take up a cake of figs and apply it to the boil, that he may live.”" 
Isaiah38:22 Then Hezekiah had said, “What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of Yahweh?”" 
Isaiah39:1 At that time Merodach-baladan son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he heard that he had been sick and was growing stronger." 
Isaiah39:2 And Hezekiah was glad about these things and showed them all his treasure house, the silver and the gold and the spices and the good oil and his whole armory and all that was found in his treasuries. There was nothing in his house nor in all his dominion that Hezekiah did not show them." 
Isaiah39:3 Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said to him, “What did these men say, and from where have they come to you?” And Hezekiah said, “They have come to me from a far country, from Babylon.”" 
Isaiah39:4 And he said, “What have they seen in your house?” So Hezekiah said, “They have seen all that is in my house; there is nothing among my treasuries that I have not shown them.”" 
Isaiah39:5 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of Yahweh of hosts," 
Isaiah39:6 ‘Behold, the days are coming when all that is in your house and all that your fathers have treasured up to this day will be carried to Babylon; nothing will be left,’ says Yahweh." 
Isaiah39:7 ‘And some of your sons who will issue from you, whom you will beget, will be taken away, and they will become officials in the palace of the king of Babylon.’”" 
Isaiah39:8 Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word of Yahweh which you have spoken is good.” For he said, “For there will be peace and truth in my days.”" 
Isaiah40:1 “Comfort, O comfort My people,” says your God." 
Isaiah40:2 “Speak to the heart of Jerusalem; And call out to her, that her warfare has been fulfilled, That her iniquity has been removed, That she has received from the hand of Yahweh Double for all her sins.”" 
Isaiah40:3 A voice is calling, “Prepare the way for Yahweh in the wilderness; Make smooth in the desert a highway for our God." 
Isaiah40:4 Let every valley be lifted up, And every mountain and hill be made low; And let the rough ground become a plain, And the rugged terrain a broad valley;" 
Isaiah40:5 Then the glory of Yahweh will be revealed, And all flesh will see it together; For the mouth of Yahweh has spoken.”" 
Isaiah40:6 A voice says, “Call out.” Then he answered, “What shall I call out?” All flesh is grass, and all its lovingkindness is like the flower of the field." 
Isaiah40:7 The grass withers, the flower fades, When the breath of Yahweh blows upon it; Surely the people are grass." 
Isaiah40:8 The grass withers, the flower fades, But the word of our God stands forever." 
Isaiah40:9 Get yourself up on a high mountain, O Zion, bearer of good news, Raise up your voice powerfully, O Jerusalem, bearer of good news; Raise it up, do not fear. Say to the cities of Judah, “Behold your God!”" 
Isaiah40:10 Behold, Lord Yahweh will come with strength, With His arm ruling for Him. Behold, His reward is with Him And His recompense before Him." 
Isaiah40:11 Like a shepherd He will shepherd His flock; In His arm He will gather the lambs And carry them in His bosom; He will gently lead the nursing ewes. 
Isaiah40:12 Who has measured the waters in the hollow of His hand, And encompassed the heavens by the span, And calculated the dust of the earth by the measure, And weighed the mountains in a balance And the hills in a pair of scales?" 
Isaiah40:13 Who has encompassed the Spirit of Yahweh, Or as His counselor has informed Him?" 
Isaiah40:14 With whom did He take counsel and who gave Him understanding? And who taught Him in the path of justice and taught Him knowledge And made Him know the way of understanding? 
Isaiah40:15 Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, And are counted as a speck of dust on the scales; Behold, He lifts up the coastlands like fine dust." 
Isaiah40:16 Even Lebanon is not enough to burn, Nor its beasts enough for a burnt offering." 
Isaiah40:17 All the nations are as nothing before Him; They are counted by Him as non‑existent and utterly formless. 
Isaiah40:18 To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will you compare with Him? 
Isaiah40:19 As for the graven images, a craftsman casts it, A goldsmith plates it with gold, And a silversmith fashions chains of silver." 
Isaiah40:20 He who is too impoverished to make such a contribution Chooses a tree that does not rot; He seeks out for himself a wise craftsman To prepare a graven image that will not be shaken. 
Isaiah40:21 Do you not know? Have you not heard? Has it not been declared to you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? 
Isaiah40:22 It is He who inhabits above the circle of the earth, And its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; It is He who stretches out the heavens like a curtain And spreads them out like a tent to inhabit." 
Isaiah40:23 It is He who reduces rulers to nothing, Who makes the judges of the earth utterly formless." 
Isaiah40:24 Scarcely have they been planted; Scarcely have they been sown; Scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth, But He merely blows on them, and they wither, And the storm carries them away like stubble." 
Isaiah40:25 “To whom then will you liken Me That I would be his equal?” says the Holy One. 
Isaiah40:26 Lift up your eyes on high And see who has created these stars, The One who leads forth their host by number, He calls them all by name; Because of the greatness of His vigor and the strength of His power, Not one of them is missing." 
Isaiah40:27 Why do you say, O Jacob, and assert, O Israel, “My way is hidden from Yahweh, And the justice due me passes by my God”?" 
Isaiah40:28 Do you not know? Have you not heard? The Everlasting God, Yahweh, the Creator of the ends of the earth, Does not become weary or tired. His understanding is unsearchable." 
Isaiah40:29 He gives power to the weary, And to him who lacks vigor He increases might." 
Isaiah40:30 Though youths grow weary and tired, And choice young men stumble badly," 
Isaiah40:31 Yet those who hope in Yahweh Will gain new power; They will mount up with wings like eagles; They will run and not get tired; They will walk and not become weary. 
Isaiah41:1 “Coastlands, listen to Me in silence, And let the peoples gain new power; Let them come forward, then let them speak; Let us draw near together for judgment." 
Isaiah41:2 Who has awakened one from the east Whom He calls in righteousness to His feet? He gives up nations before him And has dominion over kings. He makes them like dust with his sword, As the wind‑driven chaff with his bow." 
Isaiah41:3 He pursues them, passing on in peace, By a way he had not come with his feet." 
Isaiah41:4 Who has worked and done it, Calling forth the generations from the beginning? ‘I, Yahweh, am the first; and with the last, I am He.’”" 
Isaiah41:5 The coastlands have seen and are afraid; The ends of the earth tremble; They have drawn near and have come. 
Isaiah41:6 Each one helps his neighbor And says to his brother, “Be strong!”" 
Isaiah41:7 So the craftsman strengthens the smelter, And he who smooths metal with the hammer strengthens him who beats the anvil, Saying of the soldering, “It is good”; And he strengthens it with nails, So that it will not be shaken." 
Isaiah41:8 “But you, Israel, My servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, Seed of Abraham My friend," 
Isaiah41:9 You whom I have strongly taken hold of from the ends of the earth, And called from its remotest parts And said to you, ‘You are My servant, I have chosen you and not rejected you." 
Isaiah41:10 Do not fear, for I am with you; Do not anxiously look about you, for I am your God. I will make you mighty, surely I will help you; Surely I will uphold you with My righteous right hand.’" 
Isaiah41:11 Behold, all those who are angered at you will be shamed and dishonored; Those who contend with you will be as nothing and will perish." 
Isaiah41:12 You will seek those who quarrel with you, but will not find them, Those who war with you will be as nothing and non‑existent." 
Isaiah41:13 For I am Yahweh your God, who strongly takes hold of your right hand, Who says to you, ‘Do not fear, I will help you.’" 
Isaiah41:14 Do not fear, you worm Jacob, you men of Israel; I will help you,” declares Yahweh, “and your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah41:15 Behold, I have made you a new, sharp threshing sledge with double edges; You will thresh the mountains and pulverize them, And will make the hills like chaff." 
Isaiah41:16 You will winnow them, and the wind will carry them away, And the storm will scatter them; But you will rejoice in Yahweh; You will boast in the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah41:17 “The afflicted and needy are seeking water, but there is none, And their tongue is parched with thirst; I, Yahweh, will answer them Myself, As the God of Israel I will not forsake them." 
Isaiah41:18 I will open rivers on the bare heights And springs in the midst of the valleys; I will make the wilderness a pool of water And the dry land fountains of water. 
Isaiah41:19 I will put the cedar in the wilderness, The acacia and the myrtle and the olive tree; I will place the juniper in the desert Together with the box tree and the cypress," 
Isaiah41:20 That they may see and know, And establish and gain insight as well, That the hand of Yahweh has done this, And the Holy One of Israel has created it." 
Isaiah41:21 “Bring near your case,” Yahweh says. “Bring forward your mighty arguments,” The King of Jacob says." 
Isaiah41:22 Let them bring it forth and declare to us what is going to take place; As for the former events, declare what they were, That we may establish our heart on them and know their outcome. Or cause us to hear of what is coming;" 
Isaiah41:23 Declare the things that are to come afterward, That we may know that you are gods; Indeed, do good or evil, that we may anxiously look about us and fear together." 
Isaiah41:24 Behold, you are nothing, And your work is non‑existent; He who chooses you is an abomination." 
Isaiah41:25 “I have awakened one from the north, and he has come; From the rising of the sun he will call on My name; And he will come upon officials as upon mortar, Even as the potter treads clay.”" 
Isaiah41:26 Who has declared this from the beginning, that we might know? Or from former times, that we may say, “He is right!”? Surely there was no one who declared; Surely there was no one who caused those words to be heard; Surely there was no one who heard your words." 
Isaiah41:27 “Formerly I said to Zion, ‘Behold, here they are.’ And to Jerusalem, ‘I will give a messenger of good news.’" 
Isaiah41:28 But I look, and there is no one, And there is no counselor among them Who, if I ask, can respond with a word." 
Isaiah41:29 Behold, all of them are false; Their works are non‑existent; Their molten images are wind and utter formlessness." 
Isaiah42:1 “Behold, My Servant, whom I uphold; My chosen one in whom My soul is well‑pleased. I have put My Spirit upon Him; He will bring forth justice to the nations." 
Isaiah42:2 He will not cry out or raise His voice, Nor make His voice heard in the street." 
Isaiah42:3 A crushed reed He will not break And a faintly burning wick He will not extinguish; He will bring forth justice in truth. 
Isaiah42:4 He will not be faint or crushed Until He has established justice in the earth; And the coastlands will wait expectantly for His law.” 
Isaiah42:5 Thus says the God, Yahweh, Who created the heavens and stretched them out, Who spread out the earth and its offspring, Who gives breath to the people on it And spirit to those who walk in it," 
Isaiah42:6 “I am Yahweh, I have called You in righteousness; I will also take hold of You by the hand and guard You, And I will give You as a covenant to the people, As a light to the nations," 
Isaiah42:7 To open blind eyes, To bring out prisoners from the dungeon And those who inhabit darkness from the prison." 
Isaiah42:8 I am Yahweh, that is My name; I will not give My glory to another, Nor My praise to graven images." 
Isaiah42:9 Behold, the former things have come to pass; Now I declare new things; Before they spring forth I cause you to hear them.”" 
Isaiah42:10 Sing to Yahweh a new song, Sing His praise from the end of the earth! You who go down to the sea, as well as its fullness. You coastlands, and those who inhabit them." 
Isaiah42:11 Let the wilderness and its cities lift up their voices, The villages where Kedar inhabits. Let the inhabitants of Sela sing aloud, Let them shout for joy from the tops of the mountains." 
Isaiah42:12 Let them give glory to Yahweh And declare His praise in the coastlands. 
Isaiah42:13 Yahweh will go forth like a warrior; He will awaken His zeal like a man of war. He will make a loud shout, indeed, He will raise a war cry. He will prevail against His enemies." 
Isaiah42:14 “I have kept silent for a long time; I have kept still and restrained Myself. Now like a woman in labor I will groan; I will both gasp and pant. 
Isaiah42:15 I will lay waste the mountains and hills And dry up all their vegetation; I will make the rivers into coastlands And dry up the pools of waters. 
Isaiah42:16 I will lead the blind by a way they do not know, In paths they do not know I will guide them. I will make darkness into light before them And rugged places into plains. These are the things I will do, And I will not forsake them.”" 
Isaiah42:17 They will be turned back and be utterly put to shame, Who trust in graven images, Who say to molten images, “You are our gods.”" 
Isaiah42:18 Hear, you deaf! And look, you blind, that you may see." 
Isaiah42:19 Who is blind but My servant, Or so deaf as My messenger whom I send? Who is so blind as he that is at peace with Me, Or so blind as the servant of Yahweh?" 
Isaiah42:20 You have seen many things, but you do not keep them; Your ears are open, but none hears." 
Isaiah42:21 Yahweh was pleased for His righteousness’ sake That He make the law great and majestic. 
Isaiah42:22 But this is a people plundered and pillaged as spoil; All of them are trapped in caves, Or are hidden away in prisons; They have become a plunder with none to deliver them, And a spoil, with none to say, “Have them return!”" 
Isaiah42:23 Who among you will give ear to this? Who will give heed and hear hereafter? 
Isaiah42:24 Who gave Jacob up for spoil, and Israel to plunderers? Was it not Yahweh, against whom we have sinned, And in whose ways they were not willing to walk, And whose law they did not obey?" 
Isaiah42:25 So He poured out on him the heat of His anger And the fierceness of battle; And it set him aflame all around, Yet he did not know it; And it burned him, but he did not set it upon his heart." 
Isaiah43:1 But now, thus says Yahweh, your Creator, O Jacob, And He who formed you, O Israel, “Do not fear, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name; you are Mine!" 
Isaiah43:2 When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; And through the rivers, they will not overflow you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be scorched, Nor will the flame burn you." 
Isaiah43:3 For I am Yahweh your God, The Holy One of Israel, your Savior; I have given Egypt as your ransom, Ethiopia and Seba in your place." 
Isaiah43:4 Since you are precious in My sight, Since you are honored and I love you, I will give other men in your place and other peoples in exchange for your life." 
Isaiah43:5 Do not fear, for I am with you; I will bring your seed from the east, And gather you from the west." 
Isaiah43:6 I will say to the north, ‘Give them up!’ And to the south, ‘Do not hold them back.’ Bring My sons from afar And My daughters from the ends of the earth," 
Isaiah43:7 Everyone who is called by My name, And whom I have created for My glory, Whom I have formed, even whom I have made.”" 
Isaiah43:8 Bring out the people who are blind, even though they have eyes, And the deaf, even though they have ears." 
Isaiah43:9 All the nations have gathered together So that the peoples may be assembled. Who among them can declare this And make us hear the former things? Let them present their witnesses that they may be justified, Or let them hear and say, “It is true.”" 
Isaiah43:10 “You are My witnesses,” declares Yahweh, “And My servant whom I have chosen, So that you may know and believe Me And understand that I am He. Before Me there was no god formed, And there will be none after Me." 
Isaiah43:11 I, even I, am Yahweh, And there is no savior besides Me." 
Isaiah43:12 It is I who have declared and saved and caused it to be heard, And there was no strange god among you; So you are My witnesses,” declares Yahweh, “And I am God." 
Isaiah43:13 Even from eternity I am He, And there is none who can deliver out of My hand; I act and who can reverse it?”" 
Isaiah43:14 Thus says Yahweh your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, “For your sake I have sent to Babylon, And will bring down those who fled—all of them, Even the Chaldeans—into the ships in which they shouted for joy." 
Isaiah43:15 I am Yahweh, your Holy One, The Creator of Israel, your King.”" 
Isaiah43:16 Thus says Yahweh, Who makes a way through the sea And a path through the mighty waters," 
Isaiah43:17 Who brings forth the chariot and the horse, The military force and the mighty man; They will lie down together and not rise again; They have been extinguished and quenched like a wick:" 
Isaiah43:18 “Do not remember the former things, Nor carefully consider things of the past." 
Isaiah43:19 Behold, I will do something new; Now it will spring forth; Will you not know it? I will even make a roadway in the wilderness, Rivers in the wasteland." 
Isaiah43:20 The beasts of the field will glorify Me, The jackals and the ostriches, Because I have given waters in the wilderness And rivers in the wasteland, To give drink to My chosen people." 
Isaiah43:21 The people whom I formed for Myself Will recount My praise. 
Isaiah43:22 “Yet you have not called on Me, O Jacob; But you have become weary of Me, O Israel." 
Isaiah43:23 You have not brought to Me the sheep of your burnt offerings, Nor have you glorified Me with your sacrifices. I have not burdened you with offerings, Nor wearied you with frankincense." 
Isaiah43:24 You have not bought Me sweet cane with money, Nor have you satisfied Me with the fat of your sacrifices; Rather you have burdened Me with your sins; You have wearied Me with your iniquities." 
Isaiah43:25 “I, even I, am the one who wipes out your transgressions for My own sake, And I will not remember your sins." 
Isaiah43:26 Bring Me to remembrance, let us enter into judgment together; Recount your cause, that you may be proved right." 
Isaiah43:27 Your first father sinned, And your spokesmen have transgressed against Me." 
Isaiah43:28 So I will profane the princes of the sanctuary, And I will give Jacob to be devoted to destruction and Israel to revilement." 
Isaiah44:1 “But now hear, O Jacob, My servant, And Israel, whom I have chosen:" 
Isaiah44:2 Thus says Yahweh who made you And formed you from the womb, who will help you, ‘Do not fear, O Jacob My servant, And you Jeshurun whom I have chosen." 
Isaiah44:3 For I will pour out water on the thirsty ground And streams on the dry land; I will pour out My Spirit on your seed And My blessing on your offspring; 
Isaiah44:4 And they will spring up among the grass Like poplars by streams of water.’ 
Isaiah44:5 This one will say, ‘I am Yahweh’s’; And this one will call on the name of Jacob; And this one will write on his hand, ‘Belonging to Yahweh,’ And will name Israel’s name with honor." 
Isaiah44:6 “Thus says Yahweh, the King of Israel and his Redeemer, Yahweh of hosts: ‘I am the first, and I am the last, And there is no God besides Me." 
Isaiah44:7 Who is like Me? Let him call out and declare it; And let him tell it to Me in order, From the time that I established the ancient people. And let them declare to them the things that are to come And the events that are going to take place." 
Isaiah44:8 Do not be in dread and do not be afraid; Have I not long since caused it to be heard to you and declared it? And you are My witnesses. Is there any God besides Me, Or is there any other Rock? I know of none.’”" 
Isaiah44:9 Those who form a graven image are all of them futile, and their desirable things are of no profit; even their own witnesses fail to see or know, so that they will be put to shame." 
Isaiah44:10 Who has formed a god or cast a graven image to no profit? 
Isaiah44:11 Behold, all his companions will be put to shame. The craftsmen themselves are mere men. Let them all assemble themselves, let them stand up, let them be in dread, let them together be put to shame." 
Isaiah44:12 The man crafts iron into a cutting tool and does his work over the coals, forming it with hammers and working it with his powerful arm. He also gets hungry and has no power; he drinks no water and becomes weary." 
Isaiah44:13 Another crafts wood, he extends a measuring line; he outlines it with a stylus. He makes it with planes and outlines it with a compass and makes it like the form of a man, like the glory of man, so that it may sit in a house." 
Isaiah44:14 In order to cut cedars for himself, he takes a cypress or an oak and raises it for himself among the trees of the forest. He plants a fir, and the rain makes it grow." 
Isaiah44:15 Then it becomes something for a man to burn, so he takes one of them and warms himself; he also kindles a fire to bake bread. He also works to produce a god and worships it; he makes it a graven image and falls down before it." 
Isaiah44:16 Half of it he burns in the fire; over this half he eats meat as he roasts a roast and is satisfied. He also warms himself and says, “Aha! I am warm; I have seen the fire.”" 
Isaiah44:17 But the rest of it he makes into a god, his graven image. He falls down before it and worships; he also prays to it and says, “Deliver me, for you are my god.”" 
Isaiah44:18 They do not know, nor do they understand, for He has smeared over their eyes so that they cannot see and their hearts so that they will have no insight." 
Isaiah44:19 No one causes this to return to his heart, nor is there knowledge or understanding to say, “I have burned half of it in the fire and also have baked bread over its coals. I roast meat and eat it. Then I make the rest of it into an abomination; I fall down before a block of wood!”" 
Isaiah44:20 He feeds on ashes; a deceived heart has turned him aside. And he cannot deliver his soul, and he cannot say, “Is there not a lie in my right hand?”" 
Isaiah44:21 “Remember these things, O Jacob, And Israel, for you are My servant; I have formed you, you are My servant; O Israel, you will not be forgotten by Me." 
Isaiah44:22 I have wiped out your transgressions like a thick cloud And your sins like a cloud. Return to Me, for I have redeemed you.”" 
Isaiah44:23 Shout for joy, O heavens, for Yahweh has done it! Make a loud shout, you lower parts of the earth; Break forth into a shout of joy, you mountains, O forest, and every tree in it; For Yahweh has redeemed Jacob And in Israel He shows forth His beautiful glory." 
Isaiah44:24 Thus says Yahweh, your Redeemer, and the one who formed you from the womb, “I, Yahweh, am the maker of all things, Stretching out the heavens by Myself And spreading out the earth all alone," 
Isaiah44:25 Causing the omens of boasters to be annulled, And making fools out of diviners, Causing wise men to turn back, And making foolishness out of their knowledge," 
Isaiah44:26 Confirming the word of His servant— And the counsel of His messengers He will complete— And being the One who says of Jerusalem, ‘She shall be inhabited!’ And of the cities of Judah, ‘They shall be built.’ And I will raise up her waste places again." 
Isaiah44:27 It is I who says to the depth of the sea, ‘Be dried up!’ And I will make your rivers dry." 
Isaiah44:28 It is I who says of Cyrus, ‘He is My shepherd! And all My good pleasure he will complete.’ And saying of Jerusalem, ‘She will be built,’ And of the temple, ‘Your foundation will be laid.’”" 
Isaiah45:1 Thus says Yahweh to Cyrus His anointed, Whom I have taken hold of by his right hand, To subdue nations before him And to loose the loins of kings, To open doors before him so that gates will not be shut:" 
Isaiah45:2 “I will go before you and make the rough places smooth; I will shatter the doors of bronze and cut through their iron bars. 
Isaiah45:3 I will give you the treasures of darkness And hidden wealth of secret places, So that you may know that it is I, Yahweh, the God of Israel, who calls you by your name." 
Isaiah45:4 For the sake of Jacob My servant, And Israel My chosen one, I have also called you by your name; I have given you a title of honor Though you have not known Me." 
Isaiah45:5 I am Yahweh, and there is no other; Besides Me there is no God. I will gird you, though you have not known Me," 
Isaiah45:6 That they may know from the rising to the setting of the sun That there is no one besides Me. I am Yahweh, and there is no other," 
Isaiah45:7 The One forming light and creating darkness, Producing peace and creating calamity; I am Yahweh who does all these." 
Isaiah45:8 “Drip down, O heavens, from above, And let the skies pour down righteousness; Let the earth open up and salvation bear fruit, And righteousness spring up with it. I, Yahweh, have created it." 
Isaiah45:9 “Woe to the one who contends with his Maker— An earthenware vessel among the vessels of earth! Will the clay say to the potter, ‘What are you doing?’ Or the thing you are making say, ‘He has no hands’?" 
Isaiah45:10 Woe to him who says to a father, ‘What are you begetting?’ Or to a woman, ‘With what are you in labor pains?’”" 
Isaiah45:11 Thus says Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel, and his Maker: “Ask Me about the things that are to come concerning My sons, And you shall commit to Me the work of My hands." 
Isaiah45:12 It is I who made the earth and created man upon it. I stretched out the heavens with My hands, And I commanded all their host." 
Isaiah45:13 I have awakened him in righteousness, And I will make all his ways smooth; He will build My city and will let My exiles go, Without any payment or reward,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Isaiah45:14 Thus says Yahweh, “The fruit of the labor of Egypt and the profit of Ethiopia And the Sabeans, men of stature, Will come over to you and will be yours; They will walk behind you; they will come over in chains And will bow down to you; They will make supplication to you: ‘Surely, God is with you, and there is none else, No other God.’”" 
Isaiah45:15 Truly, You are a God who hides Himself, O God of Israel, Savior!" 
Isaiah45:16 They will be put to shame and even dishonored, all of them; The craftsmen of idols will go away together in dishonor." 
Isaiah45:17 Israel has been saved by Yahweh With an everlasting salvation; You will not be put to shame or dishonored To all eternity. 
Isaiah45:18 For thus says Yahweh, who created the heavens (He is the God who formed the earth and made it; He established it and did not create it a formless place, but formed it to be inhabited), “I am Yahweh, and there is none else." 
Isaiah45:19 I have not spoken in secret, In some dark land; I did not say to the seed of Jacob, ‘Seek Me in a formless place’; I, Yahweh, speak righteousness, Declaring things that are upright." 
Isaiah45:20 “Gather yourselves and come; Draw near together, you who have escaped from the nations; They do not know, Who carry about their graven image of wood And pray to a god who cannot save." 
Isaiah45:21 Declare and draw near with your case; Indeed, let them consult together. Who has made this heard from of old? Who has long since declared it? Is it not I, Yahweh? And there is no other God besides Me, A righteous God and a Savior; There is none except Me." 
Isaiah45:22 Turn to Me and be saved, all the ends of the earth; For I am God, and there is no other." 
Isaiah45:23 I have sworn by Myself, The word has gone forth from My mouth in righteousness And will not turn back, That to Me every knee will bow, every tongue will swear allegiance." 
Isaiah45:24 They will say of Me, ‘Only in Yahweh are righteousness and strength.’ Men will come to Him, And all who were angry at Him will be put to shame." 
Isaiah45:25 In Yahweh all the seed of Israel Will be justified and will boast.” 
Isaiah46:1 Bel has bowed down, Nebo stoops over; Their images are on the beasts and the cattle. The things that you carry are burdensome, A load for the weary beast." 
Isaiah46:2 They stooped over, they have bowed down together; They could not rescue the load, But have themselves gone into captivity." 
Isaiah46:3 “Hear Me, O house of Jacob, And all the remnant of the house of Israel, You who have been burdening Me from birth And have been carried from the womb;" 
Isaiah46:4 Even to your old age I will be the same, And even to your graying years I will bear you! I have done it, and I will carry you; And I will bear you, and I will rescue you." 
Isaiah46:5 “To whom would you liken Me And make Me equal and compare Me, That we would be alike?" 
Isaiah46:6 Those who lavish gold from the purse And weigh silver on the scale, They hire a goldsmith, and he makes it into a god; They fall down, indeed they worship it." 
Isaiah46:7 They carry it upon the shoulder and bear it; They set it in its place, and it stands there. It does not move from its place. Though one may cry to it, it cannot answer; It cannot save him from his distress." 
Isaiah46:8 “Remember this, and be assured; Cause it to return to your heart, you transgressors." 
Isaiah46:9 Remember the former things long past, For I am God, and there is no other; I am God, and there is no one like Me," 
Isaiah46:10 Declaring the end from the beginning, And from ancient times things which have not been done, Saying, ‘My counsel will be established, And I will accomplish all My good pleasure’," 
Isaiah46:11 Calling a bird of prey from the east, The man of My counsel from a far country. Truly I have spoken; truly I will bring it to pass. I have formed it, surely I will do it." 
Isaiah46:12 “Hear Me, you stubborn of heart, Who are far from righteousness." 
Isaiah46:13 I bring near My righteousness, it is not far off; And My salvation will not delay. And I will grant salvation in Zion, And My glory for Israel." 
Isaiah47:1 “Come down and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; Sit on the ground without a throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans! For you shall no longer be called tender and delicate." 
Isaiah47:2 Take the millstones and grind flour. Uncover your veil, strip off the skirt, Uncover the leg, cross the rivers." 
Isaiah47:3 Your nakedness will be uncovered; Your reproach also will be seen; I will take vengeance and will not spare a man.” 
Isaiah47:4 Our Redeemer, Yahweh of hosts is His name, The Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah47:5 “Sit silently, and go into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans, For you will no longer be called The queen of kingdoms." 
Isaiah47:6 I was furious with My people; I profaned My inheritance And gave them into your hand. You did not show compassion to them, On the aged you made your yoke very heavy." 
Isaiah47:7 Yet you said, ‘I will be a queen forever.’ These things you did not put on your heart Nor remember the outcome of them." 
Isaiah47:8 “So now, hear this, you sensual one, Who sits securely, Who says in your heart, ‘I am, and there is no one besides me. I will not sit as a widow, Nor know loss of children.’" 
Isaiah47:9 But these two things will come on you suddenly in one day: Loss of children and widowhood. They will come on you in full measure In spite of your many sorceries, In spite of the great might of your spells." 
Isaiah47:10 You felt secure in your evil and said, ‘No one sees me,’ Your wisdom and your knowledge have turned you astray; So you have said in your heart, ‘I am, and there is no one besides me.’" 
Isaiah47:11 But evil will come on you Which you will not know how to charm away; And disaster will fall on you For which you cannot atone; And destruction about which you do not know Will come on you suddenly. 
Isaiah47:12 “Stand fast now in your spells And in your many sorceries With which you have labored from your youth; Perhaps you will be able to profit; Perhaps you may cause trembling. 
Isaiah47:13 You are wearied with your many counsels; Let now the astrologers, Those who behold visions by the stars, Those who predict by the new moons, Stand up and save you from what will come upon you." 
Isaiah47:14 Behold, they have become like stubble, Fire burns them; They cannot deliver themselves from the power of the flame; There will be no coal to warm by Nor a fire to sit before!" 
Isaiah47:15 Thus they have become for you, those among whom you have labored, Who have traded with you from your youth; Each has wandered in his own way; There is none to save you." 
Isaiah48:1 “Hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name Israel And who came forth from the loins of Judah, Who swear by the name of Yahweh And bring to remembrance the God of Israel, But not in truth or in righteousness." 
Isaiah48:2 For they call themselves after the holy city And are supported by the God of Israel; Yahweh of hosts is His name. 
Isaiah48:3 I declared the former things long ago, And they went forth from My mouth, and I caused them to be heard. Suddenly I acted, and they came to pass." 
Isaiah48:4 Because I know that you are stiff, And your neck is an iron sinew And your forehead bronze," 
Isaiah48:5 Therefore I declared them to you long ago, Before they happened I caused them to be heard by you, Lest you say, ‘My idol has done them, And my graven image and my molten image have commanded them.’" 
Isaiah48:6 You have heard; look at all this. And you, will you not declare it? I caused you to hear new things from this time, Even hidden things which you have not known." 
Isaiah48:7 They are created now and not long ago; And before today you have not heard them, Lest you say, ‘Behold, I knew them.’" 
Isaiah48:8 Indeed, you have not heard; indeed, you have not known. Indeed, even from long ago your ear has not been open Because I knew that you would deal very treacherously; And you have been called a transgressor from the womb." 
Isaiah48:9 For the sake of My name I delay My anger, And for My praise I restrain it for you, In order not to cut you off." 
Isaiah48:10 Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver; I have tested you in the furnace of affliction." 
Isaiah48:11 For My own sake, for My own sake, I will act; For how can My name be profaned? And My glory I will not give to another." 
Isaiah48:12 “Hear Me, O Jacob, even Israel whom I called; I am He, I am the first, I am also the last." 
Isaiah48:13 Also, My hand founded the earth, And My right hand spread out the heavens; When I call to them, they stand together." 
Isaiah48:14 Assemble, all of you, and hear! Who among them has declared these things? Yahweh loves him; he will carry out His good pleasure on Babylon, And His arm will be against the Chaldeans." 
Isaiah48:15 I, even I, have spoken; indeed I have called him, I have brought him, and He will make his ways successful." 
Isaiah48:16 Draw near to Me, hear this: From the first I have not spoken in secret, From the time it took place, I was there. So now Lord Yahweh has sent Me, and His Spirit.”" 
Isaiah48:17 Thus says Yahweh, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, “I am Yahweh your God, who teaches you to profit, Who leads you in the way you should go." 
Isaiah48:18 If only you had paid attention to My commandments! Then your peace would have been like a river, And your righteousness like the waves of the sea." 
Isaiah48:19 Your seed would have been like the sand, And the offspring from your loins like its grains; Their name would never be cut off or destroyed from My presence.”" 
Isaiah48:20 Go forth from Babylon! Flee from the Chaldeans! Declare with the sound of joyful shouting, cause this to be heard, Bring it forth to the end of the earth; Say, “Yahweh has redeemed His servant Jacob.”" 
Isaiah48:21 And they did not thirst when He led them through the waste places. He made the water flow out of the rock for them; He split the rock, and the water gushed forth." 
Isaiah48:22 “There is no peace for the wicked,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah49:1 Listen to Me, O coastlands, And pay attention, you peoples from afar. Yahweh called Me from the womb; From the body of My mother He made My name to be remembered." 
Isaiah49:2 He has set My mouth like a sharp sword; In the shadow of His hand He has concealed Me; And He has also set Me as a select arrow; He has hidden Me in His quiver. 
Isaiah49:3 He said to Me, “You are My Servant, Israel, In Whom I will show forth My beautiful glory.”" 
Isaiah49:4 But I said, “I have toiled in vain; I have spent My might for nothing and vanity; Yet surely the justice due to Me is with Yahweh, And My reward with My God.”" 
Isaiah49:5 So now says Yahweh, who formed Me from the womb to be His Servant, To return Jacob back to Him, so that Israel might be gathered to Him (For I am glorified in the sight of Yahweh, And My God is My strength)," 
Isaiah49:6 He says, “It is too small a thing that You should be My Servant To raise up the tribes of Jacob and to cause the preserved ones of Israel to return; I will also give You as a light of the nations So that My salvation may reach to the end of the earth.”" 
Isaiah49:7 Thus says Yahweh, the Redeemer of Israel and its Holy One, To the despised One, To the One abhorred by the nation, To the Servant of rulers, “Kings will see and arise, Princes will also bow down, Because of Yahweh who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel who has chosen You.”" 
Isaiah49:8 Thus says Yahweh, “In an acceptable time I have answered You, And in a day of salvation I have helped You; And I will guard You and give You for a covenant of the people, To establish the land, to make them inherit the desolate inheritance;" 
Isaiah49:9 Saying to those who are bound, ‘Go forth,’ To those who are in darkness, ‘Show yourselves.’ Along the roads they will feed, And their pasture will be on all bare heights." 
Isaiah49:10 They will not hunger or thirst, Nor will the scorching heat or sun strike them down; For He who has compassion on them will guide them And will lead them to springs of water." 
Isaiah49:11 I will set all My mountains as a road, And My highways will be raised up." 
Isaiah49:12 Behold, these will come from afar; And behold, these will come from the north and from the west, And these from the land of Sinim.”" 
Isaiah49:13 Shout for joy, O heavens! And rejoice, O earth! Break forth into joyful shouting, O mountains! For Yahweh has comforted His people And will have compassion on His afflicted." 
Isaiah49:14 But Zion said, “Yahweh has forsaken me, And the Lord has forgotten me.”" 
Isaiah49:15 “Can a woman forget her infant And have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, but I will not forget you." 
Isaiah49:16 Behold, I have inscribed you on the palms of My hands; Your walls are continually before Me." 
Isaiah49:17 Your builders hurry; Your destroyers and devastators Will depart from you. 
Isaiah49:18 Lift up your eyes and look around; All of them gather together; they come to you. As I live,” declares Yahweh, “You will surely put on all of them as jewels and bind them on as a bride." 
Isaiah49:19 For your devastated and desolate places and your destroyed land— Surely now you will be too cramped for the inhabitants, And those who swallowed you will be far away." 
Isaiah49:20 The children of whom you were bereaved will yet say in your ears, ‘The place is too cramped for me; Make room for me that I may live here.’" 
Isaiah49:21 Then you will say in your heart, ‘Who has borne these for me? Indeed, I have been bereaved of my children And am barren, an exile and a wanderer. And who has reared these? Behold, I remained alone; From where did these come?’”" 
Isaiah49:22 Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will lift up My hand to the nations And make high My standard to the peoples; And they will bring your sons in their bosom, And your daughters will be lifted up on their shoulders." 
Isaiah49:23 Kings will be your guardians, And their princesses your nurses. They will bow down to you with their faces to the earth And lick the dust of your feet; And you will know that I am Yahweh; Those who hope in Me will not be put to shame." 
Isaiah49:24 “Can the prey be taken from the mighty man, Or the captives of the righteous be granted escape?”" 
Isaiah49:25 Surely, thus says Yahweh, “Even the captives of the mighty man will be taken away, And the prey of the tyrant will be granted escape; For I will contend with the one who contends with you, And I will save your sons." 
Isaiah49:26 I will feed those who mistreat you with their own flesh, And they will become drunk with their own blood as with sweet wine; And all flesh will know that I, Yahweh, am your Savior And your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.”" 
Isaiah50:1 Thus says Yahweh, “Where is the certificate of divorce By which I have sent your mother away? Or to which of My creditors did I sell you? Behold, you were sold for your iniquities, And for your transgressions your mother was sent away." 
Isaiah50:2 Why was there no man when I came? When I called, why was there none to answer? Is My hand so short that it cannot ransom? Or have I no power to deliver? Behold, I dry up the sea with My rebuke; I make the rivers a wilderness; Their fish stink for lack of water And die of thirst." 
Isaiah50:3 I clothe the heavens with blackness And make sackcloth their covering.” 
Isaiah50:4 Lord Yahweh has given Me the tongue of disciples, That I may know how to sustain the weary one with a word. He awakens Me morning by morning; He awakens My ear to listen as a disciple." 
Isaiah50:5 Lord Yahweh has opened My ear; And I did not rebel Nor did I turn back. 
Isaiah50:6 I gave My back to those who strike Me, And My cheeks to those who pluck out the beard; I did not hide My face from dishonor and spitting." 
Isaiah50:7 Even now Lord Yahweh helps Me, Therefore, I am not dishonored; Therefore, I have set My face like flint, And I know that I will not be ashamed." 
Isaiah50:8 He who vindicates Me is near; Who will contend with Me? Let us stand up to each other; Who has a judgment against Me? Let him approach Me. 
Isaiah50:9 Behold, Lord Yahweh helps Me; Who is he who condemns Me? Behold, they will all wear out like a garment; The moth will eat them." 
Isaiah50:10 Who is among you that fears Yahweh, That listens to the voice of His Servant, That walks in darkness and has no light? Let him trust in the name of Yahweh and rely on his God." 
Isaiah50:11 Behold, all you who kindle a fire, Who gird yourselves with firebrands, Walk in the light of your fire And among the brands you have set ablaze. This you will have from My hand: You will lie down in torment." 
Isaiah51:1 “Listen to Me, you who pursue righteousness, Who seek Yahweh: Look to the rock from which you were hewn And to the quarry from which you were dug." 
Isaiah51:2 Look to Abraham your father And to Sarah who brought you forth through labor pains; When he was but one I called him, Then I blessed him and multiplied him.”" 
Isaiah51:3 Indeed, Yahweh will comfort Zion; He will comfort all her waste places. And her wilderness He will make like Eden, And her desert like the garden of Yahweh; Joy and gladness will be found in her, Thanksgiving and sound of a melody." 
Isaiah51:4 “Pay attention to Me, O My people, And give ear to Me, O My nation; For a law will go forth from Me, And I will set My justice for a light of the peoples." 
Isaiah51:5 My righteousness is near, My salvation has gone forth, And My arms will judge the peoples; The coastlands will hope in Me, And for My arm they will wait expectantly." 
Isaiah51:6 Lift up your eyes to the sky, Then look to the earth beneath; For the sky will vanish like smoke, And the earth will wear out like a garment, And its inhabitants will die in like manner; But My salvation will be forever, And My righteousness will not be dismayed." 
Isaiah51:7 Listen to Me, you who know righteousness, A people in whose heart is My law; Do not fear the reproach of man, Nor be dismayed at their revilings." 
Isaiah51:8 For the moth will eat them like a garment, And the grub will eat them like wool. But My righteousness will be forever, And My salvation to all generations.”" 
Isaiah51:9 Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of Yahweh; Awake as in the days of old, the generations of long ago. Was it not You who chopped Rahab in pieces, Who pierced the dragon?" 
Isaiah51:10 Was it not You who dried up the sea, The waters of the great deep, Who made the depths of the sea a pathway For the redeemed to cross over?" 
Isaiah51:11 So the ransomed of Yahweh will return And come with joyful shouting to Zion, And everlasting gladness will be on their heads. They will obtain joy and gladness, And sorrow and sighing will flee away." 
Isaiah51:12 “I, even I, am He who comforts you. Who are you that you are afraid of man who dies And of the son of man who is made like grass," 
Isaiah51:13 That you have forgotten Yahweh your Maker, Who stretched out the heavens And laid the foundations of the earth, That you tremble in dread continually all day long because of the wrath of the one who brings distress, As he makes ready to bring ruin? But where is the wrath of the one who brings distress?" 
Isaiah51:14 The one in chains will soon be set free and will not die in the pit, nor will his bread be lacking." 
Isaiah51:15 For I am Yahweh your God, who stirs up the sea, and its waves roar—Yahweh of hosts is His name." 
Isaiah51:16 I have put My words in your mouth and have covered you with the shadow of My hand, to establish the heavens, to found the earth, and to say to Zion, ‘You are My people.’”" 
Isaiah51:17 Awaken yourself! Awaken yourself! Arise, O Jerusalem, You who have drunk from the hand of Yahweh the cup of His wrath; The chalice of reeling you have drained to the dregs." 
Isaiah51:18 There is none to guide her among all the sons she has borne, Nor is there one to take hold of her by the hand among all the sons she has reared." 
Isaiah51:19 These two things have befallen you; Who will console you? The devastation and destruction, famine and sword; How shall I comfort you?" 
Isaiah51:20 Your sons have fainted; They lie helpless at the head of every street, Like an antelope in a net, Full of the wrath of Yahweh, The rebuke of your God." 
Isaiah51:21 Therefore, now, listen to this, you afflicted, Who are drunk, but not with wine:" 
Isaiah51:22 Thus says your Lord, Yahweh, even your God Who contends for His people, “Behold, I have taken out of your hand the cup of reeling, The chalice of My wrath; You will never drink it again." 
Isaiah51:23 I will set it into the hand of those who cause you grief, Who have said to you, ‘Lie down that we may walk over you.’ You have even set your back down like the ground And like the street for those who walk over it.”" 
Isaiah52:1 Awake, awake, Clothe yourself in your strength, O Zion; Clothe yourself in your glorious garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city; For the uncircumcised and the unclean Will no longer come into you." 
Isaiah52:2 Shake yourself from the dust, rise up, O captive Jerusalem; Loose yourself from the chains around your neck, O captive daughter of Zion." 
Isaiah52:3 For thus says Yahweh, “You were sold for nothing, and you will be redeemed without money.”" 
Isaiah52:4 For thus says Lord Yahweh, “My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there; then the Assyrian oppressed them without cause." 
Isaiah52:5 So now, what do I have here,” declares Yahweh, “since My people have been taken away for nothing?” Yahweh declares, “Those who rule over them howl, and My name is continually blasphemed all day long." 
Isaiah52:6 Therefore My people shall know My name; therefore in that day I am the one who is speaking, ‘Here I am.’”" 
Isaiah52:7 How lovely on the mountains Are the feet of him who proclaims good news, Who announces peace And proclaims good news of good things, Who announces salvation, And says to Zion, “Your God reigns!”" 
Isaiah52:8 The voice of Your watchmen! They lift up their voices; They shout joyfully together; For they will see with their own eyes When Yahweh returns to Zion. 
Isaiah52:9 Break forth, shout joyfully together, You waste places of Jerusalem; For Yahweh has comforted His people; He has redeemed Jerusalem." 
Isaiah52:10 Yahweh has bared His holy arm In the sight of all the nations, That all the ends of the earth may see The salvation of our God." 
Isaiah52:11 Depart, depart, go out from there, Touch nothing unclean; Go out of the midst of her, purify yourselves, You who carry the vessels of Yahweh." 
Isaiah52:12 But you will not go out in haste, Nor will you go as those who flee; For Yahweh will go before you, And the God of Israel will be your rear guard." 
Isaiah52:13 Behold, My Servant will prosper; He will be high and lifted up and greatly exalted." 
Isaiah52:14 Just as many were appalled at you, My people, So His appearance was marred more than any man And His form more than the sons of men." 
Isaiah52:15 Thus He will sprinkle many nations, Kings will shut their mouths on account of Him; For what had not been told them they will see, And what they had not heard they will understand." 
Isaiah53:1 Who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of Yahweh been revealed? 
Isaiah53:2 For He grew up before Him like a tender shoot, And like a root out of parched ground; He has no stately form or majesty That we should look upon Him, Nor appearance that we should desire Him." 
Isaiah53:3 He was despised and forsaken of men, A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief; And like one from whom men hide their face He was despised, and we did not esteem Him." 
Isaiah53:4 Surely our griefs He Himself bore, And our sorrows He carried; Yet we ourselves esteemed Him stricken, Smitten of God, and afflicted." 
Isaiah53:5 But He was pierced through for our transgressions, He was crushed for our iniquities; The chastening for our peace fell upon Him, And by His wounds we are healed." 
Isaiah53:6 All of us like sheep have gone astray, Each of us has turned to his own way; But Yahweh has caused the iniquity of us all To fall on Him." 
Isaiah53:7 He was oppressed and He was afflicted, Yet He did not open His mouth; Like a lamb that is led to slaughter, And like a sheep that is silent before its shearers, So He did not open His mouth." 
Isaiah53:8 By oppression and judgment He was taken away; And as for His generation, who considered That He was cut off out of the land of the living, That for the transgression of my people, striking was due to Him?" 
Isaiah53:9 So His grave was assigned with wicked men, Yet He was with a rich man in His death, Because He had done no violence, Nor was there any deceit in His mouth." 
Isaiah53:10 But Yahweh was pleased To crush Him, putting Him to grief; If You would place His soul as a guilt offering, He will see His seed, He will prolong His days, And the good pleasure of Yahweh will succeed in His hand." 
Isaiah53:11 As a result of the anguish of His soul, He will see it and be satisfied; By His knowledge the Righteous One, My Servant, will justify the many, As He will bear their iniquities." 
Isaiah53:12 Therefore, I will divide for Him a portion with the many, And He will divide the spoil with the strong; Because He poured out His soul to death, And was numbered with the transgressors; Yet He Himself bore the sin of many, And interceded for the transgressors." 
Isaiah54:1 “Shout for joy, O barren woman, who has not given birth; Break forth into joyful shouting and cry aloud, you who have not been in labor; For more numerous are the sons of the desolate one Than the sons of the married woman,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah54:2 “Enlarge the place of your tent; Stretch out the curtains of your dwellings, do not hold back; Lengthen your cords And strengthen your pegs." 
Isaiah54:3 For you will spread abroad to the right and to the left. And your seed will possess nations And will resettle the desolate cities. 
Isaiah54:4 “Do not be afraid, for you will not be put to shame; And do not feel dishonored, for you will not be humiliated; But you will forget the shame of your virginity, And the reproach of your widowhood you will remember no more." 
Isaiah54:5 For your husband is your Maker, Whose name is Yahweh of hosts; And your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel, Who is called the God of all the earth." 
Isaiah54:6 For Yahweh has called you, Like a wife forsaken and grieved in spirit, Even like a wife of one’s youth when she is rejected,” Says your God." 
Isaiah54:7 “For a brief moment I forsook you, But with great compassion I will gather you." 
Isaiah54:8 In a flood of fury I hid My face from you for a moment, But with everlasting lovingkindness I will have compassion on you,” Says Yahweh your Redeemer." 
Isaiah54:9 “For this is like the days of Noah to Me, When I swore that the waters of Noah Would not overflow the earth again; So I have sworn that I will not be furious with you Nor will I rebuke you." 
Isaiah54:10 For the mountains may be removed and the hills may shake, But My lovingkindness will not be removed from you, And My covenant of peace will not be shaken,” Says Yahweh who has compassion on you." 
Isaiah54:11 “O afflicted one, storm‑tossed, and not comforted, Behold, I will lay your stones in antimony, And your foundations I will set in sapphires." 
Isaiah54:12 Moreover, I will make your battlements of rubies, And your gates of crystal, And your entire wall of precious stones." 
Isaiah54:13 All your sons will be taught of Yahweh; And the peace of your sons will be great. 
Isaiah54:14 In righteousness you will be established; You will be far from oppression, for you will not fear, And from terror, for it will not come near you." 
Isaiah54:15 If anyone fiercely attacks you it will not be from Me. Whoever attacks you will fall because of you. 
Isaiah54:16 Behold, I Myself have created the craftsman who blows the fire of coals And brings out a weapon for its work; And I have created the bringer of ruin to wreak destruction." 
Isaiah54:17 No weapon that is formed against you will succeed; And every tongue that accuses you in judgment you will condemn. This is the inheritance of the slaves of Yahweh, And their righteousness is from Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Isaiah55:1 “Ho! Every one who thirsts, come to the waters; And you who have no money come, buy and eat. Come, buy wine and milk Without money and without cost." 
Isaiah55:2 Why do you spend money for what is not bread, And your wages for what does not satisfy? Listen carefully to Me, and eat what is good, And delight your soul in richness." 
Isaiah55:3 Incline your ear and come to Me. Listen, that your soul may live; And I will cut an everlasting covenant with you, According to the faithful lovingkindnesses of David." 
Isaiah55:4 Behold, I have given him as a witness to the peoples, A ruler and commander for the peoples." 
Isaiah55:5 Behold, you will call a nation you do not know, And a nation which knows you not will run to you, Because of Yahweh your God, even the Holy One of Israel; For He has adorned you with beautiful glory.”" 
Isaiah55:6 Seek Yahweh while He may be found; Call upon Him while He is near. 
Isaiah55:7 Let the wicked forsake his way And the unrighteous man his thoughts; And let him return to Yahweh, And He will have compassion on him, And to our God, For He will abundantly pardon." 
Isaiah55:8 “For My thoughts are not your thoughts, Nor are your ways My ways,” declares Yahweh." 
Isaiah55:9 “For as the heavens are higher than the earth, So are My ways higher than your ways And My thoughts than your thoughts." 
Isaiah55:10 For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, And do not return there without watering the earth And making it bear and sprout, And giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater," 
Isaiah55:11 So will My word be which goes forth from My mouth; It will not return to Me empty, Without accomplishing what pleases Me, And without succeeding in the matter for which I sent it." 
Isaiah55:12 For you will go out with gladness And be led forth with peace; The mountains and the hills will break forth into shouts of joy before you, And all the trees of the field will clap their hands." 
Isaiah55:13 Instead of the thorn bush the cypress will come up, And instead of the nettle the myrtle will come up, And it will be to Yahweh for His renown, For an everlasting sign which will not be cut off.”" 
Isaiah56:1 Thus says Yahweh, “Keep justice and do righteousness, For My salvation is about to come And My righteousness to be revealed." 
Isaiah56:2 How blessed is the man who does this, And the son of man who takes hold of it, Who keeps from profaning the sabbath, And keeps his hand from doing any evil.”" 
Isaiah56:3 Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to Yahweh say, “Yahweh will surely separate me from His people.” Nor let the eunuch say, “Behold, I am a dry tree.”" 
Isaiah56:4 For thus says Yahweh, “To the eunuchs who keep My sabbaths, And choose what pleases Me, And hold fast My covenant," 
Isaiah56:5 To them I will give in My house and within My walls a memorial, And a name better than that of sons and daughters; I will give them an everlasting name which will not be cut off." 
Isaiah56:6 “Also the foreigners who join themselves to Yahweh, To minister to Him, and to love the name of Yahweh, To be His slaves, every one who keeps from profaning the sabbath And takes hold of My covenant," 
Isaiah56:7 Even those I will bring to My holy mountain And make them glad in My house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be acceptable on My altar; For My house will be called a house of prayer for all the peoples.” 
Isaiah56:8 Lord Yahweh, who gathers the banished of Israel, declares, “Yet others I will gather to them, to those already gathered.”" 
Isaiah56:9 All you beasts of the field, All you beasts in the forest, Come to eat." 
Isaiah56:10 His watchmen are blind; All of them know nothing. All of them are mute dogs unable to bark, Dreamers lying down, who love to slumber;" 
Isaiah56:11 And the dogs have a strong appetite; they do not know satisfaction. And they are shepherds who do not know understanding; They have all turned to their own way, Each one to his greedy gain, to the last one." 
Isaiah56:12 “Come,” they say, “let us take wine, and let us drink heavily of strong drink; And tomorrow will be like today—beyond exceedingly great.”" 
Isaiah57:1 The righteous man perishes, and no man puts it upon his heart; And men of lovingkindness are gathered away, while no one understands. For the righteous man is gathered away from evil," 
Isaiah57:2 He enters into peace; They rest in their beds, Each one who walked in his upright way." 
Isaiah57:3 “But draw near, you sons of a soothsayer, Seed of an adulterer and a prostitute." 
Isaiah57:4 Against whom do you jest? Against whom do you open wide your mouth And stick out your tongue? Are you not children of transgression, Seed of lying," 
Isaiah57:5 Who inflame yourselves among the oaks, Under every green tree, Who slaughter the children in the ravines, Under the clefts of the cliffs?" 
Isaiah57:6 Among the smooth stones of the ravine Is your portion, they are your lot; Even to them you have poured out a drink offering; You have made a grain offering. Shall I relent concerning these things?" 
Isaiah57:7 Upon a mountain lofty and lifted up You have made your bed. You also went up there to offer sacrifice. 
Isaiah57:8 Behind the door and the doorpost You have set up your memorial; Indeed, far removed from Me, you have uncovered yourself, And have gone up and made your bed wide, And you have cut a covenant for yourself with them; You have loved their bed; You have looked on their manhood." 
Isaiah57:9 You have journeyed to the king with oil And increased your perfumes; You have sent your envoys a great distance And made them go down to Sheol. 
Isaiah57:10 You were tired out by the length of your road, Yet you did not say, ‘It is hopeless.’ You found renewed strength; Therefore you did not faint." 
Isaiah57:11 “Of whom were you anxious and fearful When you lied and did not remember Me, Nor even put Me upon your heart? Was I not silent even for a long time So you do not fear Me?" 
Isaiah57:12 I will declare your righteousness and your deeds, But they will not profit you." 
Isaiah57:13 When you cry out, let your collection of idols deliver you. But the wind will lift all of them up, And a breath will take them away. But he who takes refuge in Me will inherit the land And will possess My holy mountain.”" 
Isaiah57:14 And it will be said, “Build up, build up, prepare the way, Remove every stumbling block out of the way of My people.”" 
Isaiah57:15 For thus says the One high and lifted up Who dwells forever, whose name is Holy, “I dwell on a high and holy place, And also with the crushed and lowly of spirit In order to revive the spirit of the lowly And to revive the heart of the crushed." 
Isaiah57:16 For I will not contend forever, Nor will I always be angry; For the spirit would grow faint before Me, And the breath of those whom I have made." 
Isaiah57:17 Because of the iniquity of his greedy gain I was angry and struck him; I hid My face and was angry, And he went on turning away, in the way of his heart." 
Isaiah57:18 I have seen his ways, but I will heal him; I will lead him and pay him and his mourners in full with comfort," 
Isaiah57:19 Creating the praise of the lips. Peace, peace to him who is far and to him who is near,” Says Yahweh, “and I will heal him.”" 
Isaiah57:20 But the wicked are like the tossing sea, For it cannot be quiet, And its waters toss up refuse and mud." 
Isaiah57:21 “There is no peace,” says my God, “for the wicked.”" 
Isaiah58:1 “Call out from your throat, do not hold back; Raise your voice like a trumpet, And declare to My people their transgression And to the house of Jacob their sins." 
Isaiah58:2 Yet they seek Me day by day and find pleasure in knowing My ways, As a nation that has done righteousness And has not forsaken the judgment of their God. They ask Me for righteous judgments; They find pleasure in the nearness of God." 
Isaiah58:3 ‘Why have we fasted and You do not see? Why have we afflicted our souls and You do not know?’ Behold, on the day of your fast you find your desire, And oppress all your workers." 
Isaiah58:4 Behold, you fast for contention and quarreling and to strike with a wicked fist. You do not fast like you do today to make your voice heard on high." 
Isaiah58:5 Is it a fast like this which I choose, a day for a man to afflict himself? Is it for bowing one’s head like a reed And for spreading out sackcloth and ashes as a bed? Will you call this a fast, even an acceptable day to Yahweh?" 
Isaiah58:6 Is this not the fast which I choose, To loosen the bonds of wickedness, To release the bands of the yoke, And to let the oppressed go free And break every yoke?" 
Isaiah58:7 Is it not to divide your bread with the hungry And bring the afflicted homeless into the house; When you see the naked, you cover him; And not to hide yourself from your own flesh?" 
Isaiah58:8 Then your light will break out like the dawn, And your recovery will speedily spring forth; And your righteousness will go before you; The glory of Yahweh will be your rear guard." 
Isaiah58:9 Then you will call, and Yahweh will answer; You will cry, and He will say, ‘Here I am.’ If you remove the yoke from your midst, The pointing of the finger and speaking wickedness," 
Isaiah58:10 And if you offer your soul to the hungry And satisfy the soul of the afflicted, Then your light will rise in darkness And your thick darkness will become like midday." 
Isaiah58:11 And Yahweh will continually guide you, And satisfy your soul in scorched places, And fortify your bones; And you will be like a watered garden, And like a spring of water whose waters do not fail." 
Isaiah58:12 Those from among you will rebuild the ancient waste places; You will raise up the foundations of past generation upon generation; And you will be called the repairer of the breach, The restorer of the paths for one to inhabit." 
Isaiah58:13 “If because of the sabbath, you turn your foot From doing your own desire on My holy day, And call the sabbath a delight, the holy day of Yahweh honorable, And honor it, by not doing your own ways, By not finding your own desire And speaking your own word," 
Isaiah58:14 Then you will take delight in Yahweh, And I will make you ride on the heights of the earth; And I will feed you with the inheritance of Jacob your father, For the mouth of Yahweh has spoken.”" 
Isaiah59:1 Behold, the hand of Yahweh is not so short That it cannot save; Nor is His ear so dull That it cannot hear." 
Isaiah59:2 But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, And your sins have hidden His face from you so that He does not hear." 
Isaiah59:3 For your hands are defiled with blood And your fingers with iniquity; Your lips have spoken a lie; Your tongue mutters unrighteousness. 
Isaiah59:4 No one calls in righteousness, and no one seeks justice in truth. They trust in confusion and speak worthlessness; They conceive trouble and give birth to wickedness." 
Isaiah59:5 They break open vipers’ eggs and weave the spider’s web; He who eats of their eggs dies, And from that which is crushed a snake breaks forth." 
Isaiah59:6 Their webs will not become a garment, Nor will they cover themselves with their works; Their works are works of wickedness, And a deed of violence is in their hands." 
Isaiah59:7 Their feet run to evil, And they are quick to shed innocent blood; Their thoughts are thoughts of wickedness; Devastation and destruction are in their highways." 
Isaiah59:8 They do not know the way of peace, And there is no justice in their tracks; They have made their paths crooked, Whoever treads on them does not know peace." 
Isaiah59:9 Therefore justice is far from us, And righteousness does not overtake us; We hope for light, but behold, darkness, For brightness, but we walk in thick darkness." 
Isaiah59:10 We grope along the wall like blind men; We grope like those who have no eyes; We stumble at midday as in the twilight, Among those who are vigorous we are like dead men." 
Isaiah59:11 All of us growl like bears, And moan sadly like doves; We hope for justice, but there is none, For salvation, but it is far from us." 
Isaiah59:12 For our transgressions are multiplied before You, And our sins answer against us; For our transgressions are with us, And we know our iniquities:" 
Isaiah59:13 Transgressing and denying Yahweh, And turning back from our God, Speaking oppression and revolt, Conceiving in and uttering from the heart lying words." 
Isaiah59:14 Justice is turned back, And righteousness stands far away; For truth has stumbled in the street, And rightness cannot enter." 
Isaiah59:15 So it is that truth is missing; And he who turns aside from evil makes himself plunder. Then Yahweh saw, And it was evil in His eyes that there was no justice." 
Isaiah59:16 And He saw that there was no man, And was astonished that there was no one to intercede; Then His own arm brought salvation to Him, And His righteousness upheld Him." 
Isaiah59:17 He put on righteousness like a breastplate, And a helmet of salvation on His head; And He put on garments of vengeance for clothing And wrapped Himself with zeal as a mantle." 
Isaiah59:18 According to what they deserve, so He will pay in full, Wrath to His adversaries, what is deserved to His enemies; To the coastlands He will pay what they deserve." 
Isaiah59:19 So they will fear the name of Yahweh from the west And His glory from the rising of the sun, For He will come like a rushing stream Which the wind of Yahweh makes flee." 
Isaiah59:20 “A Redeemer will come to Zion, And to those who turn from transgression in Jacob,” declares Yahweh." 
Isaiah59:21 “As for Me, this is My covenant with them,” says Yahweh: “My Spirit which is upon you, and My words which I have put in your mouth, shall not depart from your mouth, nor from the mouth of your seed, nor from the mouth of your seed’s seed,” says Yahweh, “from now and forever.”" 
Isaiah60:1 “Arise, shine, for your light has come, And the glory of Yahweh has risen upon you." 
Isaiah60:2 For behold, darkness will cover the earth And dense gloom the peoples; But Yahweh will rise upon you, And His glory will appear upon you." 
Isaiah60:3 Nations will come to your light, And kings to the brightness of your rising." 
Isaiah60:4 “Lift up your eyes round about and see; They all gather together; they come to you. Your sons will come from afar, And your daughters will be carried on the nurses’ hip." 
Isaiah60:5 Then you will see and be radiant, And your heart will tremble and be large with joy; Because the abundance of the sea will be turned to you, The wealth of the nations will come to you." 
Isaiah60:6 A multitude of camels will cover you, The young camels of Midian and Ephah; All those from Sheba will come; They will bring gold and frankincense, And will bear good news of the praises of Yahweh." 
Isaiah60:7 All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered together to you; The rams of Nebaioth will minister to you; They will go up with acceptance on My altar, And I shall adorn My glorious house with beautiful glory." 
Isaiah60:8 Who are these who fly like a cloud And like the doves to their lattices? 
Isaiah60:9 Surely the coastlands will hope in Me; And the ships of Tarshish will come first, To bring your sons from afar, Their silver and their gold with them, For the name of Yahweh your God, And for the Holy One of Israel because He has adorned you with beautiful glory." 
Isaiah60:10 “Foreigners will build up your walls, And their kings will minister to you; For in My wrath I struck you, And in My favor I have had compassion on you." 
Isaiah60:11 Your gates will be open continually; They will not be closed day or night, So that men may bring to you the wealth of the nations, With their kings led in procession." 
Isaiah60:12 For the nation and the kingdom which will not serve you will perish, And the nations will surely be laid waste." 
Isaiah60:13 The glory of Lebanon will come to you, The juniper, the box tree, and the cypress together, To adorn the place of My sanctuary with beautiful glory; And I shall make the place of My feet glorious." 
Isaiah60:14 The sons of those who afflicted you will come bowing to you, And all those who spurned you will bow themselves at the soles of your feet; And they will call you the City of Yahweh, The Zion of the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah60:15 “Instead of being forsaken and hated With no one passing through, I will make you an everlasting pride, A joy from generation to generation." 
Isaiah60:16 You will also suck the milk of nations And suck the breast of kings; Then you will know that I, Yahweh, am your Savior And your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob." 
Isaiah60:17 Instead of bronze I will bring gold, And instead of iron I will bring silver, And instead of wood, bronze, And instead of stones, iron. And I will make peace your overseers And righteousness your taskmasters." 
Isaiah60:18 Violence will not be heard again in your land, Nor devastation or destruction within your borders; But you will call your walls salvation, and your gates praise." 
Isaiah60:19 No longer will you have the sun for light by day, Nor for brightness will the moon give you light; But you will have Yahweh for an everlasting light, And your God for your glory." 
Isaiah60:20 Your sun will no longer set, Nor will your moon wane; For you will have Yahweh for an everlasting light, And the days of your mourning will be finished." 
Isaiah60:21 Then all your people will be righteous; They will possess the land forever, The branch of My planting, The work of My hands, That I may show forth My beautiful glory." 
Isaiah60:22 The smallest one will become a clan, And the miniscule one a mighty nation. I, Yahweh, will hasten it in its time.”" 
Isaiah61:1 The Spirit of Lord Yahweh is upon me Because Yahweh has anointed me To bring good news to the afflicted; He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, To proclaim release to captives And freedom to prisoners," 
Isaiah61:2 To proclaim the favorable year of Yahweh And the day of vengeance of our God, To comfort all who mourn," 
Isaiah61:3 To grant those who mourn in Zion, Giving them a headdress instead of ashes, The oil of rejoicing instead of mourning, The mantle of praise instead of a spirit of fainting. So they will be called oaks of righteousness, The planting of Yahweh, that He may show forth His beautiful glory." 
Isaiah61:4 Then they will rebuild the ancient waste places; They will raise up the former desolations; And they will make new the ruined cities, The desolations from generation to generation." 
Isaiah61:5 Strangers will stand and pasture your flocks, And foreigners will be your farmers and your vinedressers." 
Isaiah61:6 But you will be called the priests of Yahweh; You will be spoken of as ministers of our God. You will eat the wealth of nations, And in their glories you will boast." 
Isaiah61:7 Instead of your shame you will have a double portion, And instead of dishonor they will shout for joy over their portion. Therefore they will possess a double portion in their land; Everlasting gladness will be theirs." 
Isaiah61:8 For I, Yahweh, love justice, I hate robbery in the burnt offering; And in truth I will give them their recompense And cut an everlasting covenant with them." 
Isaiah61:9 Then their seed will be known among the nations, And their offspring in the midst of the peoples. All who see them will recognize them Because they are the seed whom Yahweh has blessed." 
Isaiah61:10 I will rejoice greatly in Yahweh; My soul will rejoice in my God, For He has clothed me with garments of salvation, He has wrapped me with a robe of righteousness, As a bridegroom decks himself with a headdress, And as a bride adorns herself with her jewels." 
Isaiah61:11 For as the earth brings forth its branches, And as a garden causes the things sown in it to branch out, So Lord Yahweh will cause righteousness and praise To branch out before all the nations." 
Isaiah62:1 For Zion’s sake I will not keep silent, And for Jerusalem’s sake I will not keep quiet, Until her righteousness goes forth like brightness, And her salvation like a torch that is burning." 
Isaiah62:2 The nations will see your righteousness, And all kings your glory; And you will be called by a new name Which the mouth of Yahweh will designate." 
Isaiah62:3 You will also be a crown of glory in the hand of Yahweh, And a turban of royalty in the hand of your God." 
Isaiah62:4 It will no longer be said to you, “Forsaken,” Nor to your land will it any longer be said, “Desolate”; But you will be called, “My delight is in her,” And your land, “Married”; For Yahweh takes pleasure in you, And to Him your land will be married." 
Isaiah62:5 For as a young man marries a virgin, So your sons will marry you; And as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, So your God will rejoice over you." 
Isaiah62:6 On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have appointed watchmen; All day and all night they will never keep silent. You who remind Yahweh, take no rest for yourselves;" 
Isaiah62:7 And give Him no rest until He establishes And sets Jerusalem as a praise in the earth. 
Isaiah62:8 Yahweh has sworn by His right hand and by His strong arm, “I will never again give your grain as food for your enemies; Nor will foreigners drink your new wine for which you have labored.”" 
Isaiah62:9 But those who collect it will eat it and praise Yahweh; And those who gather it will drink it in the courts of My sanctuary. 
Isaiah62:10 Go through, go through the gates, Clear the way for the people; Build up, build up the highway, Remove the stones, raise up a standard over the peoples." 
Isaiah62:11 Behold, Yahweh has announced to the end of the earth, Say to the daughter of Zion, “Behold, your salvation comes; Behold, His reward is with Him, and His recompense before Him.”" 
Isaiah62:12 And they will call them, “The holy people, The redeemed of Yahweh”; And you will be called, “Sought out, a city not forsaken.”" 
Isaiah63:1 Who is this who comes from Edom, With garments of glowing colors from Bozrah, This One who is majestic in His clothing, Marching in the greatness of His power? “It is I who speak in righteousness, mighty to save.”" 
Isaiah63:2 Why is Your clothing red, And Your garments like the one who treads in the wine press?" 
Isaiah63:3 “I have trodden the wine trough alone, And from the peoples there was no man with Me. I also trod them in My anger And trampled them in My wrath; And their lifeblood is sprinkled on My garments, And I stained all My clothes." 
Isaiah63:4 For the day of vengeance was in My heart, And My year of redemption has come." 
Isaiah63:5 I looked, and there was no one to help, And I was astonished, and there was no one to uphold; So My own arm brought salvation to Me, And My wrath upheld Me." 
Isaiah63:6 I trod down the peoples in My anger And made them drunk in My wrath, And I brought down their lifeblood to the earth.”" 
Isaiah63:7 I shall bring to remembrance the lovingkindnesses of Yahweh, the praises of Yahweh, According to all the ways that Yahweh has dealt bountifully with us, And the abundant goodness toward the house of Israel, Which He has dealt bountifully to them according to His compassion And according to the abundance of His lovingkindnesses." 
Isaiah63:8 And He said, “Surely, they are My people, Sons who will not deal falsely.” So He became their Savior." 
Isaiah63:9 In all their distress He was distressed, And the angel of His presence saved them; In His love and in His mercy He redeemed them, And He lifted them and carried them all the ancient days." 
Isaiah63:10 But they rebelled And grieved His Holy Spirit; Therefore He turned Himself to become their enemy; He fought against them. 
Isaiah63:11 Then His people remembered the ancient days, of Moses. Where is He who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of His flock? Where is He who put His Holy Spirit in the midst of them," 
Isaiah63:12 Who caused His glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses, Who split the waters before them to make for Himself an everlasting name," 
Isaiah63:13 Who led them through the depths? Like the horse in the wilderness, they did not stumble;" 
Isaiah63:14 As the cattle which go down into the valley, The Spirit of Yahweh gave them rest. So You led Your people, To make for Yourself a glorious name." 
Isaiah63:15 Look down from heaven and see from Your holy and glorious habitation; Where are Your zeal and Your mighty deeds? The tumults within You and Your compassion are restrained toward me. 
Isaiah63:16 For You are our Father, though Abraham does not know us And Israel does not recognize us. You, O Yahweh, are our Father, Our Redeemer from everlasting is Your name." 
Isaiah63:17 Why, O Yahweh, do You cause us to stray from Your ways And stiffen our heart from fearing You? Return for the sake of Your slaves, the tribes of Your inheritance." 
Isaiah63:18 Your holy people possessed Your sanctuary for a little while; Our adversaries have trodden it down. 
Isaiah63:19 We have become like those over whom You have never ruled, Like those who were not called by Your name." 
Isaiah64:1 Oh, that You would rend the heavens and come down, That the mountains might quake at Your presence—" 
Isaiah64:2 As fire kindles the brushwood, as fire causes water to boil— To make Your name known to Your adversaries, That the nations may tremble at Your presence!" 
Isaiah64:3 When You did awesome things for which we did not hope, You came down; the mountains quaked at Your presence." 
Isaiah64:4 For from ancient times they have not heard or given ear, Nor has the eye seen a God besides You, Who acts in behalf of the one who waits for Him." 
Isaiah64:5 You meet him who rejoices and does righteousness, Who remembers You in Your ways. Behold, You were angry; indeed we have sinned— We continued in them a long time— And shall we be saved?" 
Isaiah64:6 For all of us have become like one who is unclean, And all our righteous deeds are like a filthy garment; And all of us wither like a leaf, And our iniquities, like the wind, carry us away." 
Isaiah64:7 There is no one who calls on Your name, Who awakens himself to take hold of You, For You have hidden Your face from us And have melted us into the hand of our iniquities." 
Isaiah64:8 But now, O Yahweh, You are our Father; We are the clay, and You our potter; And all of us are the work of Your hand." 
Isaiah64:9 Do not be angry beyond measure, O Yahweh, Nor remember iniquity forever; Behold, look now, all of us are Your people." 
Isaiah64:10 Your holy cities have become a wilderness; Zion has become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation." 
Isaiah64:11 Our holy and glorious house, Where our fathers praised You, Has been burned by fire; And all our precious things have become a waste place." 
Isaiah64:12 Will You restrain Yourself at these things, O Yahweh? Will You keep silent and afflict us beyond measure?" 
Isaiah65:1 “I permitted Myself to be sought by those who did not ask for Me; I permitted Myself to be found by those who did not seek Me. I said, ‘Here am I, here am I,’ To a nation which did not call on My name." 
Isaiah65:2 I have spread out My hands all day long to a rebellious people, Who walk in the way which is not good, following their own thoughts," 
Isaiah65:3 A people who continually provoke Me to My face, Offering sacrifices in gardens and burning incense on bricks," 
Isaiah65:4 Who sit among graves and spend the night in secret places, Who eat swine’s flesh, And the broth of offensive meat is in their pots," 
Isaiah65:5 Who say, ‘Keep to yourself, do not come near me, For I am holier than you!’ These are smoke in My nostrils, A fire that burns all the day." 
Isaiah65:6 Behold, it is written before Me: I will not keep silent, but I will repay; I will even repay into their bosom," 
Isaiah65:7 Both their own iniquities and the iniquities of their fathers together,” says Yahweh. “Because they have burned incense on the mountains And reproached Me on the hills, Therefore I will measure their former work into their bosom.”" 
Isaiah65:8 Thus says Yahweh, “As the new wine is found in the cluster, And one says, ‘Do not make it a ruin, for there is benefit in it,’ So I will act on behalf of My slaves In order not to make all of them a ruin." 
Isaiah65:9 I will bring forth a seed from Jacob, And a possessor of My mountains from Judah; Even My chosen ones shall possess it, And My slaves will dwell there." 
Isaiah65:10 Sharon will be a pasture land for flocks, And the valley of Achor a resting place for herds, For My people who seek Me." 
Isaiah65:11 But you who forsake Yahweh, Who forget My holy mountain, Who set a table for Fortune, And who fill cups with mixed wine for Destiny," 
Isaiah65:12 I will destine you for the sword, And all of you will bow down to the slaughter, Because I called, but you did not answer; I spoke, but you did not hear. And you did what was evil in My eyes And chose that in which I was not pleased.”" 
Isaiah65:13 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, My slaves will eat, but you will be hungry. Behold, My slaves will drink, but you will be thirsty. Behold, My slaves will be glad, but you will be put to shame." 
Isaiah65:14 Behold, My slaves will shout joyfully with a merry heart, But you will cry out with a pained heart, And you will wail with a broken spirit." 
Isaiah65:15 You will leave your name for a curse to My chosen ones, And Lord Yahweh will put you to death. But My slaves will be called by another name," 
Isaiah65:16 Because he who is blessed in the earth Will be blessed by the God of truth, And he who swears in the earth Will swear by the God of truth; Because the former distresses are forgotten, And because they are hidden from My sight!" 
Isaiah65:17 “For behold, I am creating a new heavens and a new earth; And the former things will not be remembered or come upon the heart." 
Isaiah65:18 But be joyful and rejoice forever in what I create; For behold, I create Jerusalem for rejoicing And her people for joy." 
Isaiah65:19 I will also rejoice in Jerusalem and be joyful in My people; And there will no longer be heard in her The voice of weeping and the voice of crying. 
Isaiah65:20 No longer will there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, Or an old man who does not fulfill his days; For the youth will die at the age of one hundred, And the one who does not reach the age of one hundred Will be thought accursed." 
Isaiah65:21 They will build houses and inhabit them; They will also plant vineyards and eat their fruit. 
Isaiah65:22 They will not build and another inhabit; They will not plant and another eat; For as the lifetime of a tree, so will be the days of My people, And My chosen ones will wear out the work of their hands." 
Isaiah65:23 They will not labor in vain, Or bear children for terror; For they are the seed of those blessed by Yahweh, And their offspring with them." 
Isaiah65:24 And it will be that before they call, I will answer, and while they are still speaking, I will hear." 
Isaiah65:25 The wolf and the lamb will graze together, and the lion will eat straw like the ox; and dust will be the serpent’s food. They will do no evil nor act corruptly in all My holy mountain,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah66:1 Thus says Yahweh, “Heaven is My throne, and the earth is the footstool of My feet. Where then is a house you could build for Me? And where is a place that I may rest?" 
Isaiah66:2 For My hand made all these things, Thus all these things came into being,” declares Yahweh. “But to this one I will look, To him who is humble and contrite of spirit, and who trembles at My word." 
Isaiah66:3 “But he who slaughters an ox is the one who strikes down a man; He who sacrifices a lamb is the one who breaks a dog’s neck; He who offers a grain offering is the one who offers swine’s blood; He who offers a memorial offering of frankincense is the one who blesses wickedness. As they have chosen their own ways, And their soul takes pleasure in their detestable things," 
Isaiah66:4 So I will choose their punishments And will bring on them what they dread, Because I called, but no one answered; I spoke, but they did not listen. And they did what was evil in My eyes And chose that in which I did not take pleasure.”" 
Isaiah66:5 Hear the word of Yahweh, you who tremble at His word: “Your brothers who hate you, who exclude you for My name’s sake, Have said, ‘Let Yahweh be glorified, that we may see your gladness.’ But they will be put to shame." 
Isaiah66:6 A voice of rumbling from the city, a voice from the temple, The voice of Yahweh who is paying recompense to His enemies." 
Isaiah66:7 “Before she was in labor pains, she gave birth; Before her pangs came, she delivered a male child." 
Isaiah66:8 Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such things? Can a land be brought forth through labor pains in one day? Can a nation be born all at once? As soon as Zion was in labor pains, she also gave birth to her sons." 
Isaiah66:9 Shall I bring to the point of breaking forth and not cause birth?” says Yahweh. “Or shall I who causes birth shut the womb?” says your God. 
Isaiah66:10 “Be glad with Jerusalem and rejoice for her, all you who love her; Be exceedingly joyful with her, all you who mourn over her," 
Isaiah66:11 That you may nurse and be satisfied with her comforting breasts, That you may suck and be delighted with her bountiful bosom.”" 
Isaiah66:12 For thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I stretch out peace to her like a river, And the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream; And you will be nursed; you will be carried on the hip and played with on the knees." 
Isaiah66:13 As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you; And you will be comforted in Jerusalem.”" 
Isaiah66:14 Then you will see this, and your heart will be joyful, And your bones will flourish like the new grass; And the hand of Yahweh will be made known to His slaves, But He will be indignant toward His enemies." 
Isaiah66:15 For behold, Yahweh will come in fire And His chariots like the whirlwind, To return His anger with wrath, And His rebuke with flames of fire." 
Isaiah66:16 For Yahweh will execute judgment by fire And by His sword on all flesh, And those slain by Yahweh will be many." 
Isaiah66:17 “Those who sanctify and purify themselves to go to the gardens, Following one in the center, Who eat swine’s flesh, detestable things, and mice, Will come to an end altogether,” declares Yahweh." 
Isaiah66:18 “And I know their works and their thoughts; the time is coming to gather all nations and tongues. And they shall come and see My glory. 
Isaiah66:19 I will set a sign among them and will send those who have escaped from them to the nations: Tarshish, Put, Lud, Meshech, Tubal, and Javan, to the distant coastlands that have neither heard My report nor seen My glory. And they will declare My glory among the nations." 
Isaiah66:20 Then they shall bring all your brothers from all the nations as a grain offering to Yahweh, on horses, in chariots, in litters, on mules, and on camels, to My holy mountain Jerusalem,” says Yahweh, “just as the sons of Israel bring their grain offering in a clean vessel to the house of Yahweh." 
Isaiah66:21 I will also take some of them for priests and for Levites,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah66:22 “For just as the new heavens and the new earth Which I make will endure before Me,” declares Yahweh, “So your seed and your name will endure." 
Isaiah66:23 And it shall be from new moon to new moon And from sabbath to sabbath, All mankind will come to worship before Me,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah66:24 “Then they will go forth and look On the corpses of the men Who have transgressed against Me. For their worm will not die And their fire will not be quenched; And they will be an object of contempt to all mankind.” 
Jeremiah1:1 The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests who were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin," 
Jeremiah1:2 to whom the word of Yahweh came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign." 
Jeremiah1:3 And it came in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah the son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the exile of Jerusalem in the fifth month." 
Jeremiah1:4 Now the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Jeremiah1:5 “Before I formed you in the innermost parts I knew you, And before you came out from the womb I set you apart; I have given you as a prophet to the nations.”" 
Jeremiah1:6 Then I said, “Alas, Lord Yahweh! Behold, I do not know how to speak Because I am a youth.”" 
Jeremiah1:7 But Yahweh said to me, “Do not say, ‘I am a youth,’ Because everywhere I send you, you shall go, And all that I command you, you shall speak." 
Jeremiah1:8 Do not be afraid of them, For I am with you to deliver you,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah1:9 Then Yahweh sent forth His hand and touched my mouth, and Yahweh said to me, “Behold, I have put My words in your mouth." 
Jeremiah1:10 See, I have appointed you this day over the nations and over the kingdoms, To uproot and to tear down, To cause to perish and to pull down, To build and to plant.”" 
Jeremiah1:11 Now the word of Yahweh came to me saying, “What do you see, Jeremiah?” And I said, “I see a rod of an almond tree.”" 
Jeremiah1:12 Then Yahweh said to me, “You have seen well, for I am watching over My word to do it.”" 
Jeremiah1:13 The word of Yahweh came to me a second time saying, “What do you see?” And I said, “I see a boiling pot, facing away from the north.”" 
Jeremiah1:14 Then Yahweh said to me, “From the north the evil will break open on all the inhabitants of the land." 
Jeremiah1:15 For, behold, I am calling all the families of the kingdoms of the north,” declares Yahweh; “and they will come, and each one of them will put his throne at the opening of the gates of Jerusalem, and against all its walls round about and against all the cities of Judah." 
Jeremiah1:16 I will speak My judgments on them concerning all their evil, whereby they have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods and worshiped the works of their own hands." 
Jeremiah1:17 Now, gird up your loins and arise and speak to them all which I command you. Do not be dismayed before them, lest I dismay you before them." 
Jeremiah1:18 Now behold, I have given you today as a fortified city and as a pillar of iron and as walls of bronze against the whole land, to the kings of Judah, to its princes, to its priests, and to the people of the land." 
Jeremiah1:19 And they will fight against you, but they will not overcome you, for I am with you to deliver you,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah2:1 Now the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Jeremiah2:2 “Go and call out in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “I remember concerning you the lovingkindness of your youth, The love of your betrothals, Your walking after Me in the wilderness, Through a land not sown." 
Jeremiah2:3 Israel was holy to Yahweh, The first of His produce. All who ate of it became guilty; Evil came upon them,” declares Yahweh.’”" 
Jeremiah2:4 Hear the word of Yahweh, O house of Jacob and all the families of the house of Israel." 
Jeremiah2:5 Thus says Yahweh, “What injustice did your fathers find in Me, That they went far from Me And walked after vanity and became vain?" 
Jeremiah2:6 They did not say, ‘Where is Yahweh Who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, Who led us through the wilderness, Through a land of deserts and of pits, Through a land of drought and of the shadow of death, Through a land that no one crossed And where no man inhabited?’" 
Jeremiah2:7 I brought you into the fruitful land To eat its fruit and its good things. But you came and defiled My land, And My inheritance you made an abomination." 
Jeremiah2:8 The priests did not say, ‘Where is Yahweh?’ And those who handle the law did not know Me; The shepherds also transgressed against Me, And the prophets prophesied by Baal And walked after things that did not profit." 
Jeremiah2:9 “Therefore I will yet contend with you,” declares Yahweh, “And with your sons’ sons I will contend." 
Jeremiah2:10 For cross to the coastlands of Kittim and see, And send to Kedar and perceive closely And see if there has been such a thing as this!" 
Jeremiah2:11 Has a nation changed gods Though they were not gods? But My people have changed their glory For that which does not profit. 
Jeremiah2:12 Be appalled, O heavens, at this, And be horribly afraid, be very devastated,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah2:13 “For My people have done two evils: They have forsaken Me, The fountain of living waters, To hew for themselves cisterns, Broken cisterns That can hold no water." 
Jeremiah2:14 “Is Israel a slave? Or is he a homeborn slave? Why has he become plunder? 
Jeremiah2:15 The young lions have roared at him; They have given forth their voice. And they have made his land a desolation; His cities have been turned into ruin, without inhabitant." 
Jeremiah2:16 Also the men of Memphis and Tahpanhes Have shaved the top of your head. 
Jeremiah2:17 Have you not done this to yourself By your forsaking Yahweh your God When He led you in the way? 
Jeremiah2:18 But now what are you doing on the road to Egypt, To drink the waters of the Nile? Or what are you doing on the road to Assyria, To drink the waters of the River?" 
Jeremiah2:19 Your own evil will chastise you, And your acts of faithlessness will reprove you; Know therefore and see that it is evil and bitter For you to forsake Yahweh your God, And the dread of Me is not in you,” declares Lord Yahweh of hosts." 
Jeremiah2:20 “For long ago I broke your yoke And tore off your bonds; But you said, ‘I will not serve!’ For on every high hill And under every green tree You have lain down as a harlot." 
Jeremiah2:21 Yet I planted you a choice vine, A completely true seed. How then have you turned yourself before Me Into the degenerate shoots of a foreign vine?" 
Jeremiah2:22 Although you wash yourself with lye And use much soap, The stain of your iniquity is before Me,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Jeremiah2:23 “How can you say, ‘I am not defiled; I have not walked after the Baals’? Look at your way in the valley! Know what you have done! You are a swift young camel entangling her ways," 
Jeremiah2:24 A wild donkey accustomed to the wilderness, That sniffs the wind in her passion. In the time of her heat who can turn her away? All who seek her will not become weary; In her month they will find her." 
Jeremiah2:25 Keep your feet from being barefoot And your throat from thirst; But you said, ‘It is hopeless! No! For I have loved strangers, And after them I will walk.’" 
Jeremiah2:26 “As the thief is shamed when he is found, So the house of Israel is shamed; They, their kings, their princes, And their priests and their prophets," 
Jeremiah2:27 Who say to a tree, ‘You are my father,’ And to a stone, ‘You gave me birth.’ For they have turned their back to Me And not their face; But in the time when their evil comes they will say, ‘Arise and save us.’" 
Jeremiah2:28 But where are your gods Which you made for yourself? Let them arise, if they can save you In the time when your evil comes; For according to the number of your cities Are your gods, O Judah." 
Jeremiah2:29 “Why do you contend with Me? You have all transgressed against Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah2:30 “In vain I have struck your sons; They received no discipline. Your sword has devoured your prophets Like a destroying lion. 
Jeremiah2:31 O generation, behold the word of Yahweh. Have I been a wilderness to Israel Or a land of thick darkness? Why do My people say, ‘We are free to roam; We will no longer come to You’?" 
Jeremiah2:32 Can a virgin forget her ornaments, Or a bride her attire? Yet My people have forgotten Me Days without number." 
Jeremiah2:33 How well you prepare your way To seek love! Therefore even the wicked women You have taught your ways. 
Jeremiah2:34 Also on your skirts is found The lifeblood of the innocent needy; You did not find them breaking in. But in spite of all these things," 
Jeremiah2:35 Yet you said, ‘I am innocent; Surely His anger is turned away from me.’ Behold, I will enter into judgment with you Because you say, ‘I have not sinned.’" 
Jeremiah2:36 Why do you despise Him so much In changing your way? Also, you will be put to shame by Egypt As you were put to shame by Assyria." 
Jeremiah2:37 From this place also you will go out With your hands on your head; For Yahweh has rejected those in whom you trust, And you will not succeed with them.”" 
Jeremiah3:1 God says, “If a husband divorces his wife And she goes from him And belongs to another man, Will he still return to her? Will not that land be completely polluted? But you are a harlot with many lovers; Yet you turn to Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah3:2 “Lift up your eyes to the bare heights and see; Where have you not been ravished? By the roads you have sat for them Like an Arab in the wilderness, And you have polluted a land With your harlotry and with your evil." 
Jeremiah3:3 Therefore the showers have been withheld, And the late rain has not come. Yet you had a harlot’s forehead; You refused to feel dishonor." 
Jeremiah3:4 Have you not just now called to Me, ‘My Father, You are the close companion of my youth?" 
Jeremiah3:5 Will He be angry forever? Will He keep it to the end?’ Behold, you have spoken And have done evil things, And you have had your way.”" 
Jeremiah3:6 Then Yahweh said to me in the days of Josiah the king, “Have you seen what faithless Israel did? She went up on every high hill and under every green tree, and she was a harlot there." 
Jeremiah3:7 I said, ‘After she has done all these things, she will return to Me’; but she did not return, and her treacherous sister Judah saw it." 
Jeremiah3:8 And I saw that for all the adulteries of faithless Israel, I had sent her away and given her a certificate of divorce, yet her treacherous sister Judah did not fear; but she went and was a harlot also." 
Jeremiah3:9 So it was, because of the lightness of her harlotry, that she polluted the land and committed adultery with stones and trees." 
Jeremiah3:10 Yet in spite of all this, her treacherous sister Judah did not return to Me with all her heart, but rather in lying,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah3:11 And Yahweh said to me, “Faithless Israel has proved herself more righteous than treacherous Judah." 
Jeremiah3:12 Go and call out these words toward the north and say, ‘Return, faithless Israel,’ declares Yahweh; ‘I will not look upon you in anger. For I am One of lovingkindness,’ declares Yahweh; ‘I will not be angry forever." 
Jeremiah3:13 Only acknowledge your iniquity, That you have transgressed against Yahweh your God And have scattered your ways of harlotry to the strangers under every green tree, And you have not listened to My voice,’ declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah3:14 ‘Return, O faithless sons,’ declares Yahweh; ‘For I am a master to you, And I will take you one from a city and two from a family, And I will bring you to Zion.’" 
Jeremiah3:15 “Then I will give you shepherds after My own heart, who will shepherd you on knowledge and understanding." 
Jeremiah3:16 It shall be in those days when you are multiplied and fruitful in the land,” declares Yahweh, “they will no longer say, ‘The ark of the covenant of Yahweh.’ And it will not come upon the heart, nor will they remember it, nor will they miss it, nor will it be made again." 
Jeremiah3:17 At that time they will call Jerusalem ‘The Throne of Yahweh,’ and all the nations will be gathered to it, to Jerusalem, for the name of Yahweh; nor will they walk anymore after the stubbornness of their evil heart." 
Jeremiah3:18 In those days the house of Judah will walk with the house of Israel, and they will come together from the land of the north to the land that I gave your fathers as an inheritance." 
Jeremiah3:19 “Then I said, ‘How I would set you among My sons And give you a pleasant land, The most beautiful inheritance of the nations!’ And I said, ‘You shall call Me, “My Father,” And not turn away from following Me.’" 
Jeremiah3:20 Surely, as a woman treacherously departs from her lover, So you have dealt treacherously with Me, O house of Israel,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah3:21 A voice is heard on the bare heights, The weeping and the supplications of the sons of Israel; Because they have perverted their way, They have forgotten Yahweh their God." 
Jeremiah3:22 “Return, O faithless sons; I will heal your faithlessness.” “Behold, we come to You, For You are Yahweh our God." 
Jeremiah3:23 Surely, the hills are a lie, A tumult on the mountains. Surely in Yahweh our God Is the salvation of Israel." 
Jeremiah3:24 “But the shameful thing has devoured the labor of our fathers since our youth, their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters." 
Jeremiah3:25 Let us lie down in our shame, and let our dishonor cover us; for we have sinned against Yahweh our God, we and our fathers, from our youth even to this day. And we have not listened to the voice of Yahweh our God.”" 
Jeremiah4:1 “If you will return, O Israel,” declares Yahweh, “Then you should return to Me. And if you will put away your detested things from My presence And will not waver" 
Jeremiah4:2 And you will swear, ‘As Yahweh lives,’ In truth, in justice, and in righteousness; Then the nations will be blessed in Him, And in Him they will boast.”" 
Jeremiah4:3 For thus says Yahweh to the men of Judah and to Jerusalem, “Break up your fallow ground, And do not sow among thorns." 
Jeremiah4:4 Circumcise yourselves to Yahweh And remove the foreskins of your heart, Men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, Lest My wrath go forth like fire And burn with none to quench it Because of the evil of your deeds.”" 
Jeremiah4:5 Declare in Judah and make it heard in Jerusalem and say, “Blow the trumpet in the land; Call out, make your voice full, and say, ‘Gather yourselves, and let us go Into the fortified cities.’" 
Jeremiah4:6 Lift up a standard toward Zion! Seek safety, do not stand still, For I am bringing evil from the north, And great destruction." 
Jeremiah4:7 A lion has gone up from his thicket, And a destroyer of nations has set out; He has gone out from his place To make your land a desolation. Your cities will be turned into ruins Without inhabitant." 
Jeremiah4:8 For this, I gird myself with sackcloth, Lament and wail; For the burning anger of Yahweh Has not turned back from us.”" 
Jeremiah4:9 “It will be in that day,” declares Yahweh, “that the heart of the king and the heart of the princes will perish; and the priests will be appalled, and the prophets will be astonished.”" 
Jeremiah4:10 Then I said, “Ah, Lord Yahweh! Surely You have utterly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, ‘You will have peace’; whereas a sword touches the throat.”" 
Jeremiah4:11 In that time it will be said to this people and to Jerusalem, “A scorching wind from the bare heights in the wilderness along the way of the daughter of My people—not to winnow and not to cleanse," 
Jeremiah4:12 a wind too full for these things—will come for My purpose; now I will also speak judgments against them. 
Jeremiah4:13 Behold, he goes up like clouds, And his chariots like the whirlwind; His horses are swifter than eagles. Woe to us, for we are devastated!”" 
Jeremiah4:14 Wash your heart from evil, O Jerusalem, That you may be saved. How long will your wicked thoughts Lodge within you?" 
Jeremiah4:15 For a voice declares from Dan, And makes wickedness heard from Mount Ephraim." 
Jeremiah4:16 “Make mention of it to the nations, saying, ‘Behold!’ Make it heard over Jerusalem, ‘Besiegers come from a far country, And give forth their voices against the cities of Judah." 
Jeremiah4:17 Like watchmen of a field they are against her round about Because she has rebelled against Me,’ declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah4:18 Your ways and your deeds Have done these things to you. This is your evil. How bitter! How it has touched your heart!” 
Jeremiah4:19 My soul, my soul! I am in anguish! Oh, my heart! My heart is pounding in me; I cannot be silent Because you have heard, O my soul, The sound of the trumpet, The shout of war." 
Jeremiah4:20 Destruction upon destruction is called out, For the whole land is devastated; Suddenly my tents are devastated, My curtains in an instant." 
Jeremiah4:21 How long must I see the standard And hear the sound of the trumpet? 
Jeremiah4:22 “For My people are ignorant fools, They know Me not; They are simpleminded children And have no understanding. They are wise to do evil, But to do good they do not know.”" 
Jeremiah4:23 I saw on the earth, and behold, it was formless and void; And to the heavens, and they had no light." 
Jeremiah4:24 I saw on the mountains, and behold, they were quaking, And all the hills moved to and fro." 
Jeremiah4:25 I saw, and behold, there was no man, And all the birds of the sky had fled." 
Jeremiah4:26 I saw, and behold, the fruitful orchard was a wilderness, And all its cities were torn down Before Yahweh, before His burning anger." 
Jeremiah4:27 For thus says Yahweh, “The whole land shall be a desolation, Yet I will not execute a complete destruction." 
Jeremiah4:28 For this the earth shall mourn And the heavens above be dark Because I have spoken; I have purposed, And I will not relent, nor will I turn from it.”" 
Jeremiah4:29 At the sound of the horseman and bowman every city flees; They go into the thickets and climb up among the rocks; Every city is forsaken, And no man inhabits them." 
Jeremiah4:30 And you, O devastated one, what will you do? Although you dress in scarlet, Although you decorate yourself with ornaments of gold, Although you enlarge your eyes with paint, In vain you make yourself beautiful. Your lovers despise you; They seek your life." 
Jeremiah4:31 For I heard a sound as of a woman in labor pains, The distress as of one giving birth to her first child, The sound of the daughter of Zion gasping for breath, Stretching out her hands, saying, “Ah, woe is me, for my soul faints before murderers.”" 
Jeremiah5:1 “Roam to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, And see now and know, And seek in her open squares, If you can find a man, If there is one who does justice, who seeks faithfulness, Then I will pardon her." 
Jeremiah5:2 And if they say, ‘As Yahweh lives,’ Then they swear to a lie.”" 
Jeremiah5:3 O Yahweh, do not Your eyes look for faithfulness? You have struck them, But they did not weaken; You have consumed them, But they refused to receive discipline. They have made their faces stronger than rock; They have refused to repent." 
Jeremiah5:4 Then I said, “They are only the poor; They are foolish; For they do not know the way of Yahweh Or the legal judgment of their God." 
Jeremiah5:5 Let me go to the great And let me speak to them, For they know the way of Yahweh And the legal judgment of their God.” But they too, altogether, have broken the yoke And torn apart the bonds." 
Jeremiah5:6 Therefore a lion from the forest will strike them down; A wolf of the deserts will devastate them; A leopard is watching their cities. Everyone who goes out of them will be torn in pieces Because their transgressions are many; Their acts of faithlessness are mighty. 
Jeremiah5:7 “Why should I pardon you? Your sons have forsaken Me And sworn by those who are not gods. I had satisfied them to the full, Then they committed adultery And trooped to the harlot’s house." 
Jeremiah5:8 They were well‑fed lusty horses, Each one neighing after his neighbor’s wife." 
Jeremiah5:9 Shall I not punish these people,” declares Yahweh, “And on a nation such as this Shall I not avenge Myself?" 
Jeremiah5:10 “Go up through her vine rows and make them a ruin, But do not make a complete destruction; Remove her branches, For they are not Yahweh’s." 
Jeremiah5:11 For the house of Israel and the house of Judah Have dealt very treacherously with Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah5:12 They have dealt falsely about Yahweh And said, “Not He; Calamity will not come on us, And we will not see sword or famine." 
Jeremiah5:13 The prophets are as wind, And the word is not in them. Thus it will be done to them!”" 
Jeremiah5:14 Therefore, thus says Yahweh, the God of hosts, “Because you have spoken this word, Behold, I am making My words in your mouth fire And this people wood, and it will devour them." 
Jeremiah5:15 Behold, I am bringing a nation against you from afar, O house of Israel,” declares Yahweh. “It is an enduring nation; It is an ancient nation, A nation whose tongue you do not know, Nor can you understand what they say." 
Jeremiah5:16 Their quiver is like an open grave; All of them are mighty men. 
Jeremiah5:17 They will devour your harvest and your food; They will devour your sons and your daughters; They will devour your flocks and your herds; They will devour your vines and your fig trees; They will demolish with the sword your fortified cities in which you trust. 
Jeremiah5:18 “Yet even in those days,” declares Yahweh, “I will not make you a complete destruction." 
Jeremiah5:19 It shall come about when they say, ‘Why has Yahweh our God done all these things to us?’ then you shall say to them, ‘As you have forsaken Me and served foreign gods in your land, so you will serve strangers in a land that is not yours.’" 
Jeremiah5:20 “Declare this in the house of Jacob And cause it to be heard in Judah, saying," 
Jeremiah5:21 ‘Now hear this, O people who are simpleminded fools and without a heart of wisdom, Who have eyes but do not see, Who have ears but do not hear." 
Jeremiah5:22 Do you not fear Me?’ declares Yahweh. ‘Do you not tremble in My presence? For I have placed the sand as a boundary for the sea, A perpetual statute, so it cannot cross over it. Though the waves toss, yet they cannot prevail; Though they roar, yet they cannot cross over it." 
Jeremiah5:23 But this people has a stubborn and rebellious heart; They have turned aside and gone away. 
Jeremiah5:24 They do not say in their heart, “Let us now fear Yahweh our God, Who gives rain in its season, Both the early rain and the late rain, Who keeps for us The appointed weeks of the harvest.”" 
Jeremiah5:25 Your iniquities have turned these away, And your sins have withheld good from you." 
Jeremiah5:26 For wicked men are found among My people; They watch like fowlers lying in wait; They set a trap; They catch men. 
Jeremiah5:27 Like a cage full of birds, So their houses are full of deceit; Therefore they have become great and rich." 
Jeremiah5:28 They are fat, they are sleek; They also excel in deeds of evil; They do not plead the cause, The cause of the orphan, that they may succeed; And they do not render justice for the poor." 
Jeremiah5:29 Shall I not punish these people?’ declares Yahweh, ‘On a nation such as this Shall I not avenge Myself?’" 
Jeremiah5:30 “A horrible and appalling thing Has happened in the land: 
Jeremiah5:31 The prophets prophesy with lying, And the priests have dominion by their own hand; And My people love it so! But what will you do at the end of it?" 
Jeremiah6:1 “Flee for safety, O sons of Benjamin, From the midst of Jerusalem! Now blow a trumpet in Tekoa And raise a signal over Beth‑haccerem, For evil looks down from the north, As well as great destruction." 
Jeremiah6:2 The comely and delicate one, the daughter of Zion, I will ruin." 
Jeremiah6:3 Shepherds and their flocks will come to her; They will pitch their tents around her; They will pasture each in his place. 
Jeremiah6:4 Set yourselves apart for war against her; Arise, and let us go up at noon. Woe to us, for the day declines, For the shadows of the evening stretch out!" 
Jeremiah6:5 Arise, and let us go up by night And destroy her palaces!”" 
Jeremiah6:6 For thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Cut down her trees And cast up a siege against Jerusalem. This is the city to be punished, In whose midst there is only oppression." 
Jeremiah6:7 Like a well keeps its waters fresh, So she keeps fresh her evil. Violence and devastation are heard in her; Sickness and wounds are continually before Me." 
Jeremiah6:8 Heed discipline, O Jerusalem, Lest My soul become disgusted at you, Lest I make you a desolation, A land not inhabited.”" 
Jeremiah6:9 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “They will thoroughly glean as the vine the remnant of Israel; Pass your hand again like a grape gatherer Over the branches.”" 
Jeremiah6:10 To whom shall I speak and give warning That they may hear? Behold, their ears are uncircumcised, And they cannot give heed. Behold, the word of Yahweh has become a reproach to them; They have no delight in it." 
Jeremiah6:11 But I am full of the wrath of Yahweh; I am weary of holding it in. “Pour it out on the infants in the street And on the gathering of choice men together; For both husband and wife shall be captured, The aged with the one full of days." 
Jeremiah6:12 Their houses shall be turned over to others, Their fields and their wives together, For I will stretch out My hand Against the inhabitants of the land,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah6:13 “For from the least of them even to the greatest of them, Everyone is greedy for gain, And from the prophet even to the priest Everyone practices lying." 
Jeremiah6:14 They have healed the brokenness of My people superficially, Saying, ‘Peace, peace,’ But there is no peace." 
Jeremiah6:15 Were they ashamed because of the abomination they have done? They were not even ashamed at all; They did not even know how to feel dishonor. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall; At the time that I punish them, They shall be cast down,” says Yahweh." 
Jeremiah6:16 Thus says Yahweh, “Stand by the ways and see and ask for the ancient paths, Where the good way is, and walk in it; And you will find rest for your souls. But they said, ‘We will not walk in it.’" 
Jeremiah6:17 And I set watchmen over you, saying, ‘Give heed to the sound of the trumpet!’ But they said, ‘We will not give heed.’" 
Jeremiah6:18 Therefore hear, O nations, And know, O congregation, what is among them." 
Jeremiah6:19 Hear, O earth: behold, I am bringing evil on this people, The fruit of their plans, Because they have not given heed to My words, And as for My law, they have rejected it also." 
Jeremiah6:20 For what purpose does frankincense come to Me from Sheba And the sweet cane from a distant land? Your burnt offerings are not acceptable, And your sacrifices are not pleasing to Me.”" 
Jeremiah6:21 Therefore, thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am laying stumbling blocks before this people. And they will stumble against them, Fathers and sons together; Neighbor and friend will perish.”" 
Jeremiah6:22 Thus says Yahweh, “Behold, a people is coming from the land of the north, And a great nation will be aroused from the remote parts of the earth." 
Jeremiah6:23 They take hold of bow and spear; They are cruel and have no compassion; Their voice roars like the sea, And they ride on horses, Arranged as a man for the battle Against you, O daughter of Zion!”" 
Jeremiah6:24 We have heard the report of it; Our hands are limp. Distress has taken hold of us, Pain as of a woman in childbirth." 
Jeremiah6:25 Do not go out into the field And do not walk on the road, For the enemy has a sword; Terror is on every side." 
Jeremiah6:26 O daughter of my people, gird yourself with sackcloth And roll in ashes; Mourn as for an only son, A lamentation most bitter. For suddenly the destroyer Will come upon us." 
Jeremiah6:27 “I have made you a tester of metals and an assayer among My people, That you may know and test their way.”" 
Jeremiah6:28 All of them are rebelliously stubborn, Going about as a slanderer. They are bronze and iron; They, all of them, are corrupt." 
Jeremiah6:29 The bellows blow fiercely; The lead is consumed by the fire; In vain the refining goes on, But the evil ones are not separated." 
Jeremiah6:30 They call them rejected silver Because Yahweh has rejected them. 
Jeremiah7:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying," 
Jeremiah7:2 “Stand in the gate of the house of Yahweh, and you shall call out there this word, and you shall say, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh, all you of Judah, who enter by these gates to worship Yahweh!’”" 
Jeremiah7:3 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Make your ways and your deeds good, and I will let you dwell in this place." 
Jeremiah7:4 Do not trust in lying words, saying, ‘This is the temple of Yahweh, the temple of Yahweh, the temple of Yahweh.’" 
Jeremiah7:5 For if you truly make your ways and your deeds good, if you truly do justice between a man and his neighbor," 
Jeremiah7:6 if you do not oppress the sojourner, the orphan, or the widow, and do not shed innocent blood in this place, nor walk after other gods to your own evil demise," 
Jeremiah7:7 then I will let you dwell in this place, in the land that I gave to your fathers forever and ever." 
Jeremiah7:8 “Behold, you are trusting in lying words to no avail." 
Jeremiah7:9 Will you steal, murder, and commit adultery and swear while lying, and burn incense to Baal and walk after other gods that you have not known," 
Jeremiah7:10 then come and stand before Me in this house, which is called by My name, and say, ‘We are delivered!’—that you may do all these abominations?" 
Jeremiah7:11 Has this house, which is called by My name, become a robbers’ den in your sight? Behold, I, even I, have seen it,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah7:12 “But go now to My place which was in Shiloh, where I made My name dwell at the first, and see what I did to it because of the evil of My people Israel." 
Jeremiah7:13 And now, because you have done all these works,” declares Yahweh, “and I spoke to you, rising up early and speaking, but you did not hear, and I called you but you did not answer," 
Jeremiah7:14 therefore, I will do to the house which is called by My name, in which you trust, and to the place which I gave you and your fathers, as I did to Shiloh." 
Jeremiah7:15 I will cast you out of My presence, as I have cast out all your brothers, all the seed of Ephraim." 
Jeremiah7:16 “As for you, do not pray for this people and do not lift up a cry of lamentation or prayer for them and do not intercede with Me, for I am not hearing you." 
Jeremiah7:17 Are you not seeing what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? 
Jeremiah7:18 The children gather wood, and the fathers make the fire burn, and the women knead dough to make cakes for the queen of heaven; and they pour out drink offerings to other gods in order to provoke Me." 
Jeremiah7:19 Do they provoke Me?” declares Yahweh. “Is it not themselves they provoke to the shame of their own face?” 
Jeremiah7:20 Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, My anger and My wrath will be poured out on this place, on man and on beast and on the trees of the field and on the fruit of the ground; and it will burn and not be quenched.”" 
Jeremiah7:21 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices and eat flesh." 
Jeremiah7:22 For I did not speak to your fathers or command them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices. 
Jeremiah7:23 But this is what I commanded them, saying, ‘Listen to My voice, and I will be your God, and you will be My people; and you will walk in the entire way which I command you, that it may be well with you.’" 
Jeremiah7:24 Yet they did not listen or incline their ear, but walked in their own counsels and in the stubbornness of their evil heart and went backward and not forward." 
Jeremiah7:25 Since the day that your fathers came out of the land of Egypt until this day, I have sent you all My slaves the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them." 
Jeremiah7:26 Yet they did not listen to Me or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck; they did more evil than their fathers." 
Jeremiah7:27 “You shall speak all these words to them, but they will not listen to you; and you shall call to them, but they will not answer you." 
Jeremiah7:28 You shall say to them, ‘This is the nation that did not listen to the voice of Yahweh their God or receive discipline; truth has perished and has been cut off from their mouth." 
Jeremiah7:29 Cut off your hair and cast it away, And lift up a funeral lamentation on the bare heights; For Yahweh has rejected and abandoned The generation of His wrath.’" 
Jeremiah7:30 For the sons of Judah have done that which is evil in My sight,” declares Yahweh, “they have set their detestable things in the house, which is called by My name, to defile it." 
Jeremiah7:31 They have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire, which I did not command, and it did not come upon My heart." 
Jeremiah7:32 “Therefore, behold, days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “when it will no longer be called Topheth or the valley of the son of Hinnom, but the valley of the Slaughter; for they will bury in Topheth because there is no other place." 
Jeremiah7:33 The dead bodies of this people will be food for the birds of the sky and for the beasts of the earth; and no one will frighten them away. 
Jeremiah7:34 Then I will make to cease from the cities of Judah and from the streets of Jerusalem the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, for the land will become a waste place." 
Jeremiah8:1 “At that time,” declares Yahweh, “they will bring out the bones of the kings of Judah and the bones of its princes, and the bones of the priests and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem from their graves." 
Jeremiah8:2 And they will spread them out to the sun, the moon, and to all the host of heaven, which they have loved and which they have served, and which they have walked after and which they have sought, and which they have worshiped. They will not be gathered or buried; they will be as dung on the face of the ground." 
Jeremiah8:3 And death will be chosen rather than life by all the remnant that remains of this evil family, that remains in all the places to which I have banished them,” declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Jeremiah8:4 “You shall say to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Do men fall and not get up again? Does one turn away and not turn back?" 
Jeremiah8:5 Why then has this people, Jerusalem, Turned away in continual faithlessness? They hold fast to deceit; They refuse to return." 
Jeremiah8:6 I have given heed and heard, They have spoken what is not right; No man regretted his evil, Saying, ‘What have I done?’ Everyone turned to his course, Like a horse charging into the battle." 
Jeremiah8:7 Even the stork in the sky Knows her seasons; And the turtledove and the swift and the crane Keep the time of their migration; But My people do not know The legal judgment of Yahweh. 
Jeremiah8:8 “How can you say, ‘We are wise, And the law of Yahweh is with us’? But behold, the lying pen of the scribes Has made it into a lie." 
Jeremiah8:9 The wise men are put to shame; They are dismayed and captured; Behold, they have rejected the word of Yahweh, And what kind of wisdom do they have?" 
Jeremiah8:10 Therefore I will give their wives to others, Their fields to new possessors, Because from the least even to the greatest Everyone is greedy for gain; From the prophet even to the priest Everyone practices lying." 
Jeremiah8:11 They heal the brokenness of the daughter of My people superficially, Saying, ‘Peace, peace,’ But there is no peace." 
Jeremiah8:12 Were they ashamed because of the abomination they had done? They certainly were not ashamed, And they did not know how to feel dishonor; Therefore they shall fall among those who fall; At the time of their punishment they shall be brought down,” Says Yahweh." 
Jeremiah8:13 “I will surely gather them up,” declares Yahweh; “There will be no grapes on the vine And no figs on the fig tree, And the leaf will wither; And what I have given them will pass away.”’”" 
Jeremiah8:14 Why are we sitting still? Gather yourselves, and let us go into the fortified cities And let us be silent there Because Yahweh our God has silenced us And given us poisoned water to drink, For we have sinned against Yahweh." 
Jeremiah8:15 We waited for peace, but there was no good; For a time of healing, but behold, terror!" 
Jeremiah8:16 From Dan is heard the snorting of his horses; At the sound of the neighing of his valiant steeds The whole land quakes; And they come and devour the land as well as its fullness, The city and its inhabitants." 
Jeremiah8:17 “For behold, I am sending serpents against you, Vipers, for which there is no charm, And they will bite you,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah8:18 My sorrow is beyond healing; My heart is faint within me! 
Jeremiah8:19 Behold, the sound! The cry of the daughter of my people from a distant land: “Is Yahweh not in Zion? Is her King not within her?” “Why have they provoked Me to anger with their graven images, with foreign idols?”" 
Jeremiah8:20 “Harvest is past, summer is ended, And we are not saved.”" 
Jeremiah8:21 For the brokenness of the daughter of my people I am broken; I mourn, desolation has taken hold of me." 
Jeremiah8:22 Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then has not the health of the daughter of my people gone up? 
Jeremiah9:1 Oh that my head were waters And my eyes a fountain of tears, That I might weep day and night For the slain of the daughter of my people!" 
Jeremiah9:2 Oh that I had in the desert A travelers’ lodging place, That I might leave my people And go from them! For all of them are adulterers, A solemn assembly of treacherous men." 
Jeremiah9:3 “They bend their tongue like their bow; Lies and unfaithfulness prevail in the land, For they go onward from evil to evil, And they do not know Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah9:4 “Let everyone beware of his neighbor, And do not trust any brother, Because every brother surely supplants, And every neighbor goes about as a slanderer." 
Jeremiah9:5 Everyone deceives his neighbor And does not speak the truth; They have taught their tongue to speak lies; They weary themselves committing iniquity. 
Jeremiah9:6 Your habitation is in the midst of deceit; Through deceit they refuse to know Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah9:7 Therefore thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Behold, I will refine them and test them; For what else can I do, because of the daughter of My people?" 
Jeremiah9:8 Their tongue is a slaughtering arrow; It speaks deceit; With his mouth one speaks peace to his neighbor, But inwardly he sets an ambush for him." 
Jeremiah9:9 Shall I not punish them for these things?” declares Yahweh. “On a nation such as this Shall I not avenge Myself? 
Jeremiah9:10 “For the mountains I will take up a weeping and wailing, And for the pastures of the wilderness a funeral lamentation, Because they are turned into ruin so that no one passes through, And the lowing of the cattle is not heard; Both the birds of the sky and the beasts have fled; they are gone." 
Jeremiah9:11 I will make Jerusalem a heap of ruins, A haunt of jackals; And I will make the cities of Judah a desolation, without inhabitant.”" 
Jeremiah9:12 Who is the wise man that may understand this? And who is he to whom the mouth of Yahweh has spoken, that he may declare it? Why has the land perished, turned into ruin like a desert, so that no one passes through?" 
Jeremiah9:13 Yahweh said, “Because they have forsaken My law, which I set before them, and have not listened to My voice nor walked according to it," 
Jeremiah9:14 but have walked after the stubbornness of their heart and after the Baals, as their fathers taught them,”" 
Jeremiah9:15 therefore thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “behold, I will feed them, this people, with wormwood and give them poisoned water to drink." 
Jeremiah9:16 I will scatter them among the nations, whom neither they nor their fathers have known; and I will send the sword after them until I have consumed them.”" 
Jeremiah9:17 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Carefully consider and call for the mourning women, that they may come; And send for the skillful women, that they may come!" 
Jeremiah9:18 Let them make haste and take up a wailing for us, That our eyes may shed tears And our eyelids flow with water." 
Jeremiah9:19 For a voice of wailing is heard from Zion, ‘How we are destroyed! We are put to great shame, For we have left the land Because they have cast down our dwellings.’”" 
Jeremiah9:20 Indeed, hear the word of Yahweh, O you women, And let your ear receive the word of His mouth; Teach your daughters wailing, And everyone her neighbor a funeral lamentation." 
Jeremiah9:21 For death has come up through our windows; It has entered our palaces To cut off the infants from the streets, The choice men from the open squares." 
Jeremiah9:22 Speak, “Thus declares Yahweh, ‘The corpses of men will fall like dung on the open field And like the sheaf after the reaper, But no one will gather them.’”" 
Jeremiah9:23 Thus says Yahweh, “Let not a wise man boast in his wisdom, and let not the mighty man boast in his might; let not a rich man boast in his riches," 
Jeremiah9:24 but let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows Me, that I am Yahweh who shows lovingkindness, justice, and righteousness on earth; for I delight in these things,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah9:25 “Behold, the days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “that I will punish all who are circumcised and yet uncircumcised—" 
Jeremiah9:26 Egypt and Judah, and Edom and the sons of Ammon, and Moab and all those inhabiting the desert who clip the hair on their temples; for all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised of heart.”" 
Jeremiah10:1 Hear the word which Yahweh speaks to you, O house of Israel." 
Jeremiah10:2 Thus says Yahweh, “Do not learn the way of the nations, And do not be terrified by the signs of the heavens Although the nations are terrified by them;" 
Jeremiah10:3 For the statutes of the peoples are vanity Because it is wood cut from the forest, The work of the hands of a craftsman with a cutting tool." 
Jeremiah10:4 They make it beautiful with silver and with gold; They strengthen it with nails and with hammers So that it will not totter. 
Jeremiah10:5 Like a scarecrow in a cucumber field are they, And they cannot speak; They must be carried Because they cannot take a step! Do not fear them, For they can do no harm, Nor can they do any good.”" 
Jeremiah10:6 There is none like You, O Yahweh; You are great, and great is Your name in might." 
Jeremiah10:7 Who would not fear You, O King of the nations? Indeed it is Your due! For among all the wise men of the nations And in all their kingdoms, There is none like You." 
Jeremiah10:8 But they are altogether senseless and foolish; They are in a discipline of vanities—it is mere wood! 
Jeremiah10:9 Beaten silver is brought from Tarshish, And gold from Uphaz, The work of a craftsman and of the hands of a goldsmith; Blue and purple are their clothing; They are all the work of wise craftsmen." 
Jeremiah10:10 But Yahweh is the true God; He is the living God and the everlasting King. At His wrath the earth quakes, And the nations cannot endure His indignation." 
Jeremiah10:11 Thus you shall say to them, “The gods that did not make the heavens and the earth will perish from the earth and from under the heavens.”" 
Jeremiah10:12 It is He who made the earth by His power, Who established the world by His wisdom; And by His understanding He has stretched out the heavens." 
Jeremiah10:13 When He gives forth His voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, And He causes the clouds to ascend from the end of the earth; He makes lightning for the rain, And brings out the wind from His storehouses." 
Jeremiah10:14 Every man is senseless, devoid of knowledge; Every goldsmith is put to shame by his graven images; For his molten images are a lie, And there is no breath in them." 
Jeremiah10:15 They are vanity, a work of mockery; In the time of their punishment they will perish." 
Jeremiah10:16 The portion of Jacob is not like these; For the Maker of all is He, And Israel is the tribe of His inheritance; Yahweh of hosts is His name." 
Jeremiah10:17 Gather up your bundle from the ground, You who inhabit a land under siege!" 
Jeremiah10:18 For thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am slinging out the inhabitants of the land At this time, And will cause them distress, That they may find it.”" 
Jeremiah10:19 Woe is me, because of my injury! My wound is desperately sick. But I said, “Truly this is a sickness, And I must bear it.”" 
Jeremiah10:20 My tent is destroyed, And all my ropes are torn out; My sons have gone from me and are no more. There is no one to stretch out my tent again Or to set up my curtains." 
Jeremiah10:21 For the shepherds have become senseless And have not sought Yahweh; Therefore they have not prospered, And all their flock is scattered." 
Jeremiah10:22 The sound of a report! Behold, it comes— A great quaking out of the land of the north— To make the cities of Judah A desolation, a haunt of jackals." 
Jeremiah10:23 I know, O Yahweh, that a man’s way is not in himself, Nor is it in a man who walks to direct his steps." 
Jeremiah10:24 Discipline me, O Yahweh, but with justice; Not with Your anger, lest You bring me to nothing." 
Jeremiah10:25 Pour out Your wrath on the nations that do not know You And on the families that do not call Your name, For they have devoured Jacob; They have devoured him and consumed him And have made desolate his abode." 
Jeremiah11:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying," 
Jeremiah11:2 “Hear the words of this covenant, and you shall speak to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem" 
Jeremiah11:3 and say to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, “Cursed is the man who does not hear the words of this covenant" 
Jeremiah11:4 which I commanded your fathers in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace, saying, ‘Listen to My voice, and do according to all which I command you; so you shall be My people, and I will be your God,’" 
Jeremiah11:5 in order to establish the oath which I swore to your fathers, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as it is this day.”’” Then I answered and said, “Amen, O Yahweh.”" 
Jeremiah11:6 And Yahweh said to me, “Call out all these words in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, ‘Hear the words of this covenant so that you will do them." 
Jeremiah11:7 For I solemnly warned your fathers in the day that I brought them up from the land of Egypt, even to this day, rising up early and warning, saying, “Listen to My voice.”" 
Jeremiah11:8 Yet they did not listen or incline their ear, but walked, each one, in the stubbornness of his evil heart; therefore I brought on them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do, but they did not.’”" 
Jeremiah11:9 Then Yahweh said to me, “A conspiracy has been found among the men of Judah and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah11:10 They have turned back to the iniquities of their ancestors who refused to hear My words, and they have walked after other gods to serve them; the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken My covenant which I cut with their fathers.”" 
Jeremiah11:11 Therefore thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am bringing calamity on them which they will not be able to get out of; and they will cry to Me, yet I will not listen to them." 
Jeremiah11:12 Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry to the gods to whom they burn incense, but they surely will not save them in the time of their calamity." 
Jeremiah11:13 For your gods are the number of your cities, O Judah; and the number of the streets of Jerusalem are the altars you have set up to the shameful thing, altars to burn incense to Baal." 
Jeremiah11:14 “But as for you, do not pray for this people, nor lift up a cry of lamentation or prayer for them; for I will not listen when they call to Me because of their calamity." 
Jeremiah11:15 What possession has My beloved in My house When she has done many schemes of wickedness? Can the flesh, which is set apart as holy, take away from you your calamity, So that you can exult?”" 
Jeremiah11:16 Yahweh called your name, “A green olive tree, beautiful in fruit and form”; With the noise of a great tumult He has kindled fire on it, And its foliage has an evil demise." 
Jeremiah11:17 Yahweh of hosts, who planted you, has spoken forth evil against you because of the evil of the house of Israel and of the house of Judah, which they have done to provoke Me to anger by burning incense to Baal." 
Jeremiah11:18 Moreover, Yahweh made it known to me, and I knew it; Then You showed me their deeds." 
Jeremiah11:19 But I was like a gentle lamb led to the slaughter; And I did not know that they had devised thoughts against me, saying, “Let us make the tree with its fruit a ruin, And let us cut him off from the land of the living, That his name be remembered no more.”" 
Jeremiah11:20 But, O Yahweh of hosts, who judges righteously, Who tests the insides and the heart, Let me see Your vengeance on them, For to You have I revealed my case." 
Jeremiah11:21 Therefore thus says Yahweh concerning the men of Anathoth, who seek your life, saying, “Do not prophesy in the name of Yahweh, so that you will not die at our hand”;" 
Jeremiah11:22 therefore thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Behold, I am about to punish them! The choice men will die by the sword; their sons and daughters will die by famine;" 
Jeremiah11:23 and a remnant will not be left to them, for I will bring calamity on the men of Anathoth—the year of their punishment.”" 
Jeremiah12:1 Righteous are You, O Yahweh, when I would plead my case with You; Indeed I would speak matters of justice with You: Why has the way of the wicked succeeded? Why are all those who deal in treachery complacent?" 
Jeremiah12:2 You have planted them; they have also taken root; They grow; they have even produced fruit. You are near to their lips But far from their inmost being. 
Jeremiah12:3 But You, O Yahweh, You know me; You see me; And You test my heart’s attitude toward You. Drag them off like sheep for the slaughter And set them apart for a day of carnage!" 
Jeremiah12:4 How long is the land to mourn And the plants of every field to dry up? Because of the evil of those who inhabit it, Animals and birds have been swept away, Because men have said, “He will not see our latter ending.”" 
Jeremiah12:5 “If you have run with footmen and they have tired you out, Then how can you compete with horses? If you fall down in a land of peace, How will you do in the thicket of the Jordan?" 
Jeremiah12:6 For even your brothers and the household of your father, Even they have dealt treacherously with you, Even they have called aloud after you. Do not believe them, although they may say nice things to you.”" 
Jeremiah12:7 “I have forsaken My house; I have abandoned My inheritance; I have given the beloved of My soul Into the hand of her enemies. 
Jeremiah12:8 My inheritance has become to Me Like a lion in the forest; She has given forth its voice against Me; Therefore I have come to hate her. 
Jeremiah12:9 Is My inheritance like a speckled bird of prey to Me? Are the birds of prey against her on every side? Go, gather all the beasts of the field, Bring them to devour!" 
Jeremiah12:10 Many shepherds have ruined My vineyard; They have trampled down My portion; They have made My desired portion A desolate wilderness. 
Jeremiah12:11 It has been made a desolation; Desolate, it mourns before Me; The whole land has been made desolate Because no man sets it upon his heart." 
Jeremiah12:12 On all the bare heights in the wilderness Destroyers have come, For a sword of Yahweh is devouring From one end of the land even to the other; There is no peace for any flesh." 
Jeremiah12:13 They have sown wheat and have reaped thorns; They have strained themselves to no profit. But be ashamed of your produce Because of the burning anger of Yahweh.” 
Jeremiah12:14 Thus says Yahweh concerning all My evil neighbors who beat at the inheritance with which I have caused My people Israel to inherit, “Behold, I am about to uproot them from their land and will uproot the house of Judah from among them." 
Jeremiah12:15 And it will come about that after I have uprooted them, I will return and have compassion on them; and I will cause them to return, each one to his inheritance and each one to his land." 
Jeremiah12:16 Then if they will really learn the ways of My people, to swear by My name, ‘As Yahweh lives,’ even as they taught My people to swear by Baal, they will be built up in the midst of My people." 
Jeremiah12:17 But if they will not listen, then I will uproot that nation, uproot and make it perish,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah13:1 Thus Yahweh said to me, “Go and buy yourself a linen belt and put it around your loins, but do not put it in water.”" 
Jeremiah13:2 So I bought the belt in accordance with the word of Yahweh and put it around my loins. 
Jeremiah13:3 Then the word of Yahweh came to me a second time, saying," 
Jeremiah13:4 “Take the belt that you have bought, which is around your loins, and arise, go to the Euphrates and hide it there in a crevice of the rock.”" 
Jeremiah13:5 So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as Yahweh had commanded me." 
Jeremiah13:6 Now it happened that after many days Yahweh said to me, “Arise, go to the Euphrates and take from there the belt which I commanded you to hide there.”" 
Jeremiah13:7 Then I went to the Euphrates and dug, and I took the belt from the place where I had hidden it; and behold, the belt was ruined; it was totally worthless." 
Jeremiah13:8 Then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Jeremiah13:9 “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Just so will I ruin the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah13:10 This evil people, who refuse to listen to My words, who walk in the stubbornness of their hearts and have walked after other gods to serve them and to worship them, let them be just like this belt which is totally worthless." 
Jeremiah13:11 For as the belt clings to the loins of a man, so I made the whole household of Israel and the whole household of Judah cling to Me,’ declares Yahweh, ‘that they might be for Me a people, for a name, for praise, and for beauty; but they did not listen.’" 
Jeremiah13:12 “Therefore you are to say this word to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, “Every jug is to be filled with wine.”’ And they will say to you, ‘Do we not very well know that every jug is to be filled with wine?’" 
Jeremiah13:13 Then you shall say to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am about to fill all the inhabitants of this land—the kings that sit for David on his throne, the priests, the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem—with drunkenness!" 
Jeremiah13:14 I will shatter them against each other, both the fathers and the sons together,” declares Yahweh. “I will not spare nor show pity nor have compassion so as not to ruin them.”’”" 
Jeremiah13:15 Listen and give ear, do not be haughty, For Yahweh has spoken." 
Jeremiah13:16 Give glory to Yahweh your God, Before He brings darkness And before your feet stumble On the dusky mountains; And while you are hoping for light, He makes it into the shadow of death And turns it into dense gloom." 
Jeremiah13:17 But if you will not listen to it, My soul will cry in secret for such pride; And my eyes will bitterly weep And flow down with tears Because the flock of Yahweh has been taken captive." 
Jeremiah13:18 Say to the king and the queen mother, “Take a lowly seat, For your beautiful crown Has come down from your head.”" 
Jeremiah13:19 The cities of the Negev have been closed up, And there is no one to open them; All Judah has been taken away into exile, Wholly taken away into exile." 
Jeremiah13:20 “Lift up your eyes and see Those coming from the north. Where is the flock that was given you, Your beautiful sheep?" 
Jeremiah13:21 What will you say when He appoints over you— And you yourself had taught them— Former companions to be head over you? Will not pangs seize you Like a woman in childbirth? 
Jeremiah13:22 If you say in your heart, ‘Why have these things happened to me?’ Because of the magnitude of your iniquity Your skirts have been uncovered And your heels have suffered violence." 
Jeremiah13:23 Can the Ethiopian change his skin Or the leopard his spots? Then you also can do good Who are accustomed to doing evil. 
Jeremiah13:24 Therefore I will scatter them like chaff passing away Into the wilderness wind. 
Jeremiah13:25 This is your lot, the portion measured to you From Me,” declares Yahweh, “Because you have forgotten Me And trusted in lies." 
Jeremiah13:26 So I Myself have also stripped your skirts off over your face, That your disgrace may be seen." 
Jeremiah13:27 As for your adulteries and your lustful neighings, The lewdness of your prostitution On the hills in the field, I have seen your detestable things. Woe to you, O Jerusalem! How long will you not cleanse yourself?”" 
Jeremiah14:1 That which came as the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah in regard to the drought: 
Jeremiah14:2 “Judah mourns, And her gates languish; They sit on the ground in mourning, And the outcry of Jerusalem has gone up." 
Jeremiah14:3 Their mighty ones have sent their underlings for water; They have come to the trenches and found no water. They have returned with their vessels empty; They have been put to shame and dishonored, And they cover their heads." 
Jeremiah14:4 Because the ground is dismayed, For there has been no rain on the land, The farmers have been put to shame; They have covered their heads." 
Jeremiah14:5 For even the doe in the field has given birth only to forsake her young Because there is no grass. 
Jeremiah14:6 The wild donkeys stand on the bare heights; They pant for air like jackals; Their eyes fail For there is no vegetation. 
Jeremiah14:7 Although our iniquities answer against us, O Yahweh, act for Your name’s sake! Truly our acts of faithlessness have been many; We have sinned against You." 
Jeremiah14:8 O Hope of Israel, Its Savior in time of distress, Why are You like a sojourner in the land Or like a traveler who has pitched his tent to lodge for the night?" 
Jeremiah14:9 Why are You like a man confused, Like a mighty man who cannot save? Yet You are in our midst, O Yahweh, And we are called by Your name; Do not leave us!”" 
Jeremiah14:10 Thus says Yahweh to this people, “Even so they have loved to wander; they have not kept their feet in check. Therefore Yahweh does not accept them; now He will remember their iniquity and punish their sins.”" 
Jeremiah14:11 So Yahweh said to me, “Do not pray for the good of this people." 
Jeremiah14:12 When they fast, I am not going to listen to their cry; and when they offer burnt offering and grain offering, I am not going to accept them. Rather I am going to make an end of them by the sword, famine, and pestilence.”" 
Jeremiah14:13 But, “Ah, Lord Yahweh!” I said, “Behold, the prophets are saying to them, ‘You will not see the sword nor will you have famine, but I will give you true peace in this place.’”" 
Jeremiah14:14 Then Yahweh said to me, “The prophets are prophesying lies in My name. I have neither sent them nor commanded them nor spoken to them; they are prophesying to you a vision of lies, divination, futility, and the deception of their own hearts." 
Jeremiah14:15 Therefore thus says Yahweh concerning the prophets who are prophesying in My name, although it was not I who sent them—yet they keep saying, ‘There will be no sword or famine in this land’—by that sword and famine those prophets shall meet their end!" 
Jeremiah14:16 The people also to whom they are prophesying will be thrown out into the streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword; and there will be no one to bury them—neither them, nor their wives, nor their sons, nor their daughters—for I will pour out their own evil on them." 
Jeremiah14:17 And you will say this word to them, ‘Let my eyes flow down with tears night and day, And let them not cease, For the virgin daughter of my people has been shattered with a mighty shattering, With a sorely sick wound." 
Jeremiah14:18 If I go out to the field, Behold, those slain with the sword! Or if I enter the city, Behold, diseases of famine! For both prophet and priest Have gone around as merchants in the land that they do not know.’”" 
Jeremiah14:19 Have You completely rejected Judah? Or have You loathed Zion? Why have You stricken us so that there is no healing for us? We hoped for peace, but there was no good; And for a time of healing, but behold, terror!" 
Jeremiah14:20 We know our wickedness, O Yahweh, The iniquity of our fathers, for we have sinned against You." 
Jeremiah14:21 Do not despise us, for Your own name’s sake; Do not disgrace the throne of Your glory; Remember and do not break Your covenant with us." 
Jeremiah14:22 Are there any among the idols of the nations who give rain? Or can the heavens give showers? Is it not You, O Yahweh our God? Therefore we hope in You, For You are the one who has done all these things." 
Jeremiah15:1 Then Yahweh said to me, “Even though Moses and Samuel were to stand before Me, My soul would not be with this people; send them away from My presence and let them go!" 
Jeremiah15:2 And it will be that when they say to you, ‘Where should we go?’ then you are to tell them, ‘Thus says Yahweh: “Those destined for death, to death; And those destined for the sword, to the sword; And those destined for famine, to famine; And those destined for captivity, to captivity.”’" 
Jeremiah15:3 I will appoint over them four kinds of doom,” declares Yahweh: “the sword to kill, the dogs to drag off, and the birds of the sky and the beasts of the earth to devour and bring to ruin." 
Jeremiah15:4 I will give them over to be an example of terror among all the kingdoms of the earth because of Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, the king of Judah, for what he did in Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah15:5 “Indeed, who will spare you, O Jerusalem, Or who will console you, Or who will turn aside to ask about your well‑being?" 
Jeremiah15:6 You who have abandoned Me,” declares Yahweh, “You keep going backward. So I will stretch out My hand against you and bring you to ruin; I am tired of relenting!" 
Jeremiah15:7 And I will winnow them with a winnowing fork At the gates of the land; I will bereave them of children; I will make My people perish; They did not repent of their ways. 
Jeremiah15:8 Their widows will be more numerous before Me Than the sand of the seas; I will bring against them, against the mother of a choice man, A destroyer at noonday; I will suddenly bring down on her Anguish and terror." 
Jeremiah15:9 She who bore seven sons languishes; Her breathing is labored. Her sun has set while it was yet day; She has been shamed and humiliated. So I will give over their survivors to the sword Before their enemies,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah15:10 Woe to me, my mother, that you have borne me As a man of strife and a man of contention to all the land! I have not lent, nor have men lent money to me, Yet everyone curses me." 
Jeremiah15:11 Yahweh said, “Surely I will set you free for purposes of good; Surely I will cause the enemy to intercede with you In a time of disaster and a time of distress." 
Jeremiah15:12 “Can anyone smash iron, Iron from the north, or bronze?" 
Jeremiah15:13 Your wealth and your treasures I will give for plunder without cost, Even for all your sins And within all your borders." 
Jeremiah15:14 Then I will cause your enemies to pass it over Into a land you do not know, For a fire has been kindled in My anger; It will burn upon you.”" 
Jeremiah15:15 You who know, O Yahweh, Remember me, take notice of me, And take vengeance for me on my persecutors. Do not, in view of Your patience, take me away; Know that for Your sake I endure reproach." 
Jeremiah15:16 Your words were found, and I ate them, And Your words became for me joy and gladness in my heart, For I have been called by Your name, O Yahweh God of hosts." 
Jeremiah15:17 I did not sit in the circle of merrymakers, Nor did I exult. Because of Your hand upon me I sat alone, For You filled me with indignation." 
Jeremiah15:18 Why has my pain been perpetual And my wound incurable, refusing to be healed? Will You indeed be to me like a deceptive stream With water that is unreliable?" 
Jeremiah15:19 Therefore thus says Yahweh, “If you return, then I will cause you to return— Before Me you will stand; And if you extract the precious from the worthless, You will become My mouthpiece. They for their part may turn to you, But as for you, you must not turn to them." 
Jeremiah15:20 Then I will make you to this people A fortified wall of bronze; And they will fight against you, But they will not prevail against you, For I am with you to save you And deliver you,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah15:21 “So I will deliver you from the hand of the evil ones, And I will redeem you from the grasp of the ruthless ones.”" 
Jeremiah16:1 The word of Yahweh also came to me saying," 
Jeremiah16:2 “You shall not take a wife for yourself nor have sons or daughters in this place.” 
Jeremiah16:3 For thus says Yahweh concerning the sons and daughters born in this place and concerning their mothers who bear them and their fathers who beget them in this land: 
Jeremiah16:4 “They will die of deadly diseases; they will not be lamented or buried; they will be as dung on the surface of the ground and come to an end by sword and famine, and their carcasses will become food for the birds of the sky and for the beasts of the earth.”" 
Jeremiah16:5 For thus says Yahweh, “Do not enter the house of the funeral meal, or go to lament or to console them; for I have withdrawn My peace from this people,” declares Yahweh, “My lovingkindness and compassion." 
Jeremiah16:6 Both great men and small will die in this land; they will not be buried; they will not be lamented, nor will anyone gash himself or shave his head for them." 
Jeremiah16:7 Men will not break bread in mourning for them, to comfort anyone for the dead, nor give them a cup of comforting to drink for anyone’s father or mother." 
Jeremiah16:8 Moreover you shall not go into a house of feasting to sit with them to eat and drink.” 
Jeremiah16:9 For thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel: “Behold, I am going to cause to cease from this place, before your eyes and in your days, the voice of rejoicing and the voice of gladness, the voice of the groom and the voice of the bride." 
Jeremiah16:10 “Now when you tell this people all these words, they will say to you, ‘For what reason has Yahweh declared all this great calamity against us? And what is our iniquity, or what is our sin which we have committed against Yahweh our God?’" 
Jeremiah16:11 Then you are to say to them, ‘It is because your fathers have forsaken Me,’ declares Yahweh, ‘and have walked after other gods and served them and worshiped them; but Me they have forsaken and have not kept My law." 
Jeremiah16:12 You too have done evil, even more than your fathers; for behold, you are each one walking according to the stubbornness of his own evil heart, without listening to Me." 
Jeremiah16:13 So I will hurl you out of this land into the land which you have not known, neither you nor your fathers; and there you will serve other gods day and night, for I will grant you no favor.’" 
Jeremiah16:14 “Therefore behold, days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “when it will no longer be said, ‘As Yahweh lives, who brought up the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt,’" 
Jeremiah16:15 but, ‘As Yahweh lives, who brought up the sons of Israel from the land of the north and from all the lands where He had banished them.’ For I will return them to their own land which I gave to their fathers." 
Jeremiah16:16 “Behold, I am going to send for many fishermen,” declares Yahweh, “and they will fish for them; and afterwards I will send for many hunters, and they will hunt them from every mountain and every hill and from the crevices of the rocks." 
Jeremiah16:17 For My eyes are on all their ways; they are not hidden from My face, nor is their iniquity concealed from My eyes." 
Jeremiah16:18 I will first doubly repay their iniquity and their sin because they have profaned My land; they have filled My inheritance with the carcasses of their detestable idols and with their abominations.” 
Jeremiah16:19 O Yahweh, my strength and my strong defense, And my refuge in the day of distress, To You the nations will come From the ends of the earth and say, “Our fathers have inherited nothing but lies, Futility and things of no profit.”" 
Jeremiah16:20 Can man make gods for himself? Yet they are not gods! 
Jeremiah16:21 “Therefore behold, I am going to make them know— This time I will make them know My power and My might; And they shall know that My name is Yahweh.”" 
Jeremiah17:1 The sin of Judah is written down with an iron stylus; With a diamond point it is engraved upon the tablet of their heart And on the horns of their altars," 
Jeremiah17:2 As they remember their children, So they remember their altars and their Asherim By green trees on the high hills." 
Jeremiah17:3 O mountain of Mine in the countryside, I will give over your wealth and all your treasures for plunder, Your high places for sin throughout your borders." 
Jeremiah17:4 And you will, even of yourself, let go of your inheritance That I gave you; And I will make you serve your enemies In the land which you do not know, For you have kindled a fire in My anger Which will burn forever." 
Jeremiah17:5 Thus says Yahweh, “Cursed is the man who trusts in mankind And makes flesh his strength, And whose heart turns away from Yahweh." 
Jeremiah17:6 And he will be like a juniper in the desert And will not see when prosperity comes, But will dwell in stony wastes in the wilderness, A land of salt which is not inhabited." 
Jeremiah17:7 Blessed is the man who trusts in Yahweh And whose trust is Yahweh. 
Jeremiah17:8 And he will be like a tree planted by the water, That sends forth its roots by a stream And will not fear when the heat comes; But its leaves will be green, And it will not be anxious in a year of drought Nor refrain from yielding fruit." 
Jeremiah17:9 “The heart is more deceitful than all else And is desperately sick; Who can know it? 
Jeremiah17:10 I, Yahweh, search the heart; I test the inmost being, Even to give to each man according to his ways, According to the fruit of his deeds." 
Jeremiah17:11 As a partridge that hatches eggs which it has not laid, So is he who makes a fortune, but unjustly; In the midst of his days it will forsake him, And in the end he will be a wicked fool.”" 
Jeremiah17:12 A glorious throne on high from the beginning Is the place of our sanctuary. 
Jeremiah17:13 O Yahweh, the hope of Israel, All who forsake You will be put to shame. Those who turn away on earth will be written down Because they have forsaken the fountain of living water, even Yahweh." 
Jeremiah17:14 Heal me, O Yahweh, and I will be healed; Save me and I will be saved, For You are my praise." 
Jeremiah17:15 Behold, they keep saying to me, “Where is the word of Yahweh? Let it come now!”" 
Jeremiah17:16 But as for me, I have not hurried away from being a shepherd after You, Nor have I longed for the sickening day; You Yourself know that the utterance of my lips Was in Your presence." 
Jeremiah17:17 Do not be a terror to me; You are my refuge in the day of calamity. 
Jeremiah17:18 Let those who pursue me be put to shame, but as for me, let me not be put to shame; Let them be dismayed, but let me not be dismayed. Bring on them a day of calamity, And crush them with twofold crushing!" 
Jeremiah17:19 Thus Yahweh said to me, “Go and stand in the public gate, through which the kings of Judah come in and go out, as well as in all the gates of Jerusalem," 
Jeremiah17:20 and say to them, ‘Listen to the word of Yahweh, kings of Judah and all Judah and all inhabitants of Jerusalem who come in through these gates:" 
Jeremiah17:21 Thus says Yahweh, “Take care of yourselves, and do not carry any load on the sabbath day or bring anything in through the gates of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah17:22 You shall not bring a load out of your houses on the sabbath day nor do any work, but keep the sabbath day holy, as I commanded your fathers." 
Jeremiah17:23 Yet they did not listen or incline their ears, but stiffened their necks in order not to listen or receive discipline." 
Jeremiah17:24 “But it will be, if you listen carefully to Me,” declares Yahweh, “to bring no load in through the gates of this city on the sabbath day, but to keep the sabbath day holy by doing no work on it," 
Jeremiah17:25 then there will come in through the gates of this city kings and princes sitting on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their princes, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and this city will be inhabited forever." 
Jeremiah17:26 And they will come in from the cities of Judah and from all around Jerusalem, from the land of Benjamin, from the Shephelah, from the hill country, and from the Negev, bringing burnt offerings, sacrifices, grain offerings, and frankincense, and bringing sacrifices of thanksgiving to the house of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah17:27 But if you do not listen to Me to keep the sabbath day holy by not carrying a load and coming in through the gates of Jerusalem on the sabbath day, then I will kindle a fire in its gates, and it will devour the palaces of Jerusalem and not be quenched.”’”" 
Jeremiah18:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh saying," 
Jeremiah18:2 “Arise and go down to the potter’s house, and there I will make you hear My words.”" 
Jeremiah18:3 Then I went down to the potter’s house, and behold, he was making something on the wheel." 
Jeremiah18:4 But the vessel that he was making of clay was ruined in the hand of the potter, so he turned around and made it into another vessel, according to what was right in the eyes of the potter to make." 
Jeremiah18:5 Then the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Jeremiah18:6 “Can I not, O house of Israel, deal with you as this potter does?” declares Yahweh. “Behold, like the clay in the potter’s hand, so are you in My hand, O house of Israel." 
Jeremiah18:7 At one moment I might speak concerning a nation or concerning a kingdom to uproot, to tear down, or to make it perish;" 
Jeremiah18:8 but if that nation against which I have spoken turns from its evil, I will relent concerning the calamity I planned to do against it." 
Jeremiah18:9 Or at another moment I might speak concerning a nation or concerning a kingdom to build up or to plant it; 
Jeremiah18:10 but if it does evil in My sight by not listening to My voice, then I will relent concerning the good which I promised, to do good to it." 
Jeremiah18:11 So now then, speak to the men of Judah and against the inhabitants of Jerusalem saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am forming calamity against you and devising a plan against you. Oh turn back, each of you from his evil way, and do good in your ways and your deeds.”’" 
Jeremiah18:12 But they will say, ‘It’s hopeless! For we are going to follow our own plans, and each of us will act according to the stubbornness of his evil heart.’" 
Jeremiah18:13 “Therefore thus says Yahweh, ‘Ask now among the nations, Who ever heard the like of this? The virgin of Israel Has done a most appalling thing." 
Jeremiah18:14 Does the snow of Lebanon forsake the rock of the open country? Or is the cold flowing water from a strange land ever uprooted? 
Jeremiah18:15 For My people have forgotten Me; They burn incense to worthless gods, And they have stumbled from their ways, From the ancient paths, To walk in bypaths, Not on a highway," 
Jeremiah18:16 To make their land an object of horror, An object of perpetual hissing; Everyone who passes by it will be horrified And shake his head." 
Jeremiah18:17 Like an east wind I will scatter them Before the enemy; I will show them My back and not My face In the day of their disaster.’” 
Jeremiah18:18 Then they said, “Come and let us devise plans against Jeremiah. Surely the law is not going to perish from the priest, nor counsel to the wise man, nor the divine word to the prophet! Come on and let us strike at him with our tongue, and let us give no heed to any of his words.”" 
Jeremiah18:19 Do give heed to me, O Yahweh, And listen to the voice of those who contend against me!" 
Jeremiah18:20 Should good be repaid with evil? For they have dug a pit for me. Remember how I stood before You To speak good on their behalf, So as to turn away Your wrath from them." 
Jeremiah18:21 Therefore, give their children over to famine And deliver them up to the power of the sword; And let their wives become childless and widowed. Let their men also be smitten to death, Their young men struck down by the sword in battle." 
Jeremiah18:22 May an outcry be heard from their houses, When You suddenly bring raiders upon them; For they have dug a pit to capture me And hidden snares for my feet." 
Jeremiah18:23 Yet You, O Yahweh, know All their deadly counsel against me; Do not atone for their iniquity Or blot out their sin from before You. But may they be overthrown before You; Deal with them in the time of Your anger!" 
Jeremiah19:1 Thus says Yahweh, “Go and buy a potter’s earthenware jar, and take some of the elders of the people and some of the elders of the priests." 
Jeremiah19:2 Then go out to the valley of Ben-hinnom, which is by the entrance of the potsherd gate, and there call out the words that I tell you" 
Jeremiah19:3 and say, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh, O kings of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem: thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Behold, I am about to bring a calamity upon this place, at which the ears of everyone that hears of it will tingle." 
Jeremiah19:4 Because they have forsaken Me and have made this a foreign place and have burned incense in it to other gods, that neither they nor their fathers nor the kings of Judah had ever known, and because they have filled this place with the blood of the innocent" 
Jeremiah19:5 and have built the high places of Baal to burn their sons in the fire as burnt offerings to Baal, a thing which I never commanded or spoke of, nor did it ever come upon My heart," 
Jeremiah19:6 therefore, behold, days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “when this place will no longer be called Topheth or the valley of Ben-hinnom, but rather the valley of Slaughter." 
Jeremiah19:7 I will empty out the counsel of Judah and Jerusalem to the point of destruction in this place, and I will cause them to fall by the sword before their enemies and by the hand of those who seek their life; and I will give over their carcasses as food for the birds of the sky and the beasts of the earth." 
Jeremiah19:8 I will also make this city an object of horror and of hissing; everyone who passes by it will be horrified and hiss because of all its slaughtering. 
Jeremiah19:9 I will make them eat the flesh of their sons and the flesh of their daughters, and they will eat one another’s flesh in the siege and in the distress with which their enemies and those who seek their life will distress them.”’" 
Jeremiah19:10 “Then you are to break the jar in the sight of the men who accompany you," 
Jeremiah19:11 and you shall say to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Just so will I break this people and this city, even as one breaks a potter’s vessel, which cannot again be repaired; and they will bury in Topheth because there is no other place for burial." 
Jeremiah19:12 This is what I will do to this place and its inhabitants,” declares Yahweh, “so as to make this city like Topheth." 
Jeremiah19:13 And the houses of Jerusalem and the houses of the kings of Judah will be defiled like the place Topheth because of all the houses on whose rooftops they burned incense to all the heavenly host and poured out drink offerings to other gods.”’” 
Jeremiah19:14 Then Jeremiah came from Topheth, where Yahweh had sent him to prophesy; and he stood in the court of the house of Yahweh and said to all the people:" 
Jeremiah19:15 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘Behold, I am about to bring on this city and all its towns the entire calamity that I have spoken against it because they have stiffened their necks so as not to hear My words.’”" 
Jeremiah20:1 Then Pashhur the priest, the son of Immer, who was ruling overseer in the house of Yahweh, heard Jeremiah prophesying these words;" 
Jeremiah20:2 and Pashhur had Jeremiah the prophet struck and put him in the stocks that were at the upper Benjamin Gate, which was by the house of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah20:3 Now it happened that on the next day, Pashhur released Jeremiah from the stocks. And Jeremiah said to him, “Pashhur is not the name Yahweh has called you, but rather Magor-missabib." 
Jeremiah20:4 For thus says Yahweh, ‘Behold, I am going to make you a terror to yourself and to all your friends; and while your eyes look on, they will fall by the sword of their enemies. So I will give over all Judah to the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will take them away into exile to Babylon and will strike them down with the sword." 
Jeremiah20:5 I will also give over all the wealth of this city, all the fruit of its labor, and all its precious things; even all the treasures of the kings of Judah I will give over to the hand of their enemies, and they will plunder them, take them away, and bring them to Babylon." 
Jeremiah20:6 And you, Pashhur, and all who live in your house will go into captivity; and you will enter Babylon, and there you will die, and there you will be buried, you and all your friends to whom you have prophesied lies.’”" 
Jeremiah20:7 O Yahweh, You have enticed me, and I was enticed; You were stronger than I, and You prevailed. I have become a laughingstock all day long; Everyone mocks me." 
Jeremiah20:8 For each time I speak, I cry aloud; I call out violence and devastation Because for me the word of Yahweh has resulted In reproach and derision all day long." 
Jeremiah20:9 But if I say, “I will not remember Him Or speak anymore in His name,” Then in my heart it becomes like a burning fire Shut up in my bones; And I am weary of holding it in, And I cannot prevail." 
Jeremiah20:10 For I have heard the bad report of many, “Terror on every side! Denounce him; yes, let us denounce him!” All my trusted friends, Keeping watch for my fall, say: “Perhaps he will be deceived, so that we may prevail against him And take our revenge on him.”" 
Jeremiah20:11 But Yahweh is with me like a ruthless mighty one; Therefore my persecutors will stumble and not prevail. They will be utterly ashamed, because they have not prospered, With an everlasting dishonor that will not be forgotten." 
Jeremiah20:12 Yet, O Yahweh of hosts, You who test the righteous, Who see the mind and the heart; Let me see Your vengeance on them, For to You I have revealed my cause." 
Jeremiah20:13 Sing to Yahweh, praise Yahweh! For He has delivered the soul of the needy one From the hand of evildoers." 
Jeremiah20:14 Cursed be the day when I was born; Let the day not be blessed when my mother bore me! 
Jeremiah20:15 Cursed be the man who brought the good news To my father, saying, “A baby boy has been born to you!” And made him very glad." 
Jeremiah20:16 But let that man be like the cities Which Yahweh overthrew without relenting, And let him hear an outcry in the morning And a shout of war at noon," 
Jeremiah20:17 Because he did not put me to death from the womb, So that my mother would have been my grave, And her womb ever pregnant." 
Jeremiah20:18 Why did I ever come forth from the womb To look on trouble and sorrow, So that my days have been spent in shame?" 
Jeremiah21:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh when King Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur, the son of Malchijah, and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, saying," 
Jeremiah21:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh when King Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur, the son of Malchijah, and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, saying," 
Jeremiah21:2 “Please inquire of Yahweh on our behalf, for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon is warring against us; perhaps Yahweh will deal with us according to all His wonderful acts, so that the enemy will go up from us.”" 
Jeremiah21:3 Then Jeremiah said to them, “Thus you shall say to Zedekiah," 
Jeremiah21:4 ‘Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, “Behold, I am about to turn back the weapons of war which are in your hands, with which you are warring against the king of Babylon and the Chaldeans who are besieging you outside the wall; and I will gather them into the center of this city." 
Jeremiah21:5 I Myself will war against you with an outstretched hand and a strong arm, even in anger and wrath and great indignation." 
Jeremiah21:6 I will also strike down the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast; they will die of a great pestilence." 
Jeremiah21:7 Then afterwards,” declares Yahweh, “I will give over Zedekiah king of Judah and his servants and the people, even those who remain in this city from the pestilence, the sword, and the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and into the hand of their enemies and into the hand of those who seek their lives; and he will strike them down with the edge of the sword. He will not show pity on them nor spare nor have compassion.”’" 
Jeremiah21:8 “You shall also say to this people, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I set before you the way of life and the way of death." 
Jeremiah21:9 He who inhabits this city will die by the sword and by famine and by pestilence; but he who goes out and falls away to the Chaldeans who are besieging you will live, and he will have his own life as spoil." 
Jeremiah21:10 For I have set My face against this city for evil and not for good,” declares Yahweh. “It will be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will burn it with fire.”’" 
Jeremiah21:11 “Then say to the household of the king of Judah, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh," 
Jeremiah21:12 O house of David, thus says Yahweh: “Render justice every morning; And deliver the person who has been robbed from the power of his oppressor, Lest My wrath go forth like fire And burn with none to extinguish it, Because of the evil of their deeds." 
Jeremiah21:13 “Behold, I am against you, O inhabitant of the valley, O rocky plain,” declares Yahweh, “You men who say, ‘Who will come down against us? Or who will enter into our dwelling places?’" 
Jeremiah21:14 But I will punish you according to the results of your deeds,” declares Yahweh, “And I will kindle a fire in its forest That it may devour all its surroundings.”’”" 
Jeremiah22:1 Thus says Yahweh, “Go down to the house of the king of Judah, and there you shall speak this word" 
Jeremiah22:2 and say, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh, O king of Judah, who sits on David’s throne, you and your servants and your people who enter these gates." 
Jeremiah22:3 Thus says Yahweh, “Do justice and righteousness, and deliver the one who has been robbed from the power of his oppressor. Also do not mistreat or do violence to the sojourner, the orphan, or the widow; and do not shed innocent blood in this place." 
Jeremiah22:4 For if you men will indeed do this thing, then kings will enter the gates of this house, sitting for David on his throne, riding in chariots and on horses, even the king himself and his servants and his people." 
Jeremiah22:5 But if you will not obey these words, I swear by Myself,” declares Yahweh, “that this house will become a waste place.”’”" 
Jeremiah22:6 For thus says Yahweh concerning the house of the king of Judah: “You are like Gilead to Me, Like the summit of Lebanon; Yet most assuredly I will make you like a wilderness, Like cities which are not inhabited." 
Jeremiah22:7 For I will set apart destroyers against you, Each with his weapons; And they will cut down your choicest cedars And throw them on the fire." 
Jeremiah22:8 “Many nations will pass by this city; and they will say to one another, ‘Why has Yahweh done thus to this great city?’" 
Jeremiah22:9 Then they will say, ‘Because they forsook the covenant of Yahweh their God and worshiped other gods and served them.’”" 
Jeremiah22:10 Do not weep for the dead or console him, But weep continually for the one who goes away, For he will never return Or see the land of his birth." 
Jeremiah22:11 For thus says Yahweh in regard to Shallum the son of Josiah, king of Judah, who became king in the place of Josiah his father, who went forth from this place, “He will never return there;" 
Jeremiah22:12 but in the place where they took him away into exile, there he will die and not see this land again." 
Jeremiah22:13 “Woe to him who builds his house without righteousness And his upper rooms without justice, Who uses his neighbor’s services without pay And does not give him his wages," 
Jeremiah22:14 Who says, ‘I will build myself a roomy house With spacious upper rooms And cut out its windows, Paneling it with cedar and painting it bright red.’" 
Jeremiah22:15 Do you become a king because you are competing in cedar? Did not your father eat and drink And do justice and righteousness? Then it was well with him. 
Jeremiah22:16 He pled the cause of the afflicted and needy; Then it was well. Is not that what it means to know Me?” Declares Yahweh. 
Jeremiah22:17 “But your eyes and your heart Are set on nothing except your own greedy gain And on shedding innocent blood And on doing oppression and extortion.” 
Jeremiah22:18 Therefore thus says Yahweh in regard to Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, “They will not lament for him: ‘Alas, my brother!’ or, ‘Alas, sister!’ They will not lament for him: ‘Alas for the master!’ or, ‘Alas for his splendor!’" 
Jeremiah22:19 He will be buried with a donkey’s burial, Dragged off and thrown out beyond the gates of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah22:20 Go up to Lebanon and cry out, And lift up your voice in Bashan; Cry out also from Abarim, For all your lovers have been broken." 
Jeremiah22:21 I spoke to you in your prosperity, But you said, ‘I will not listen!’ This has been your way from your youth, That you have not listened to My voice." 
Jeremiah22:22 The wind will sweep away all your shepherds, And your lovers will go into captivity; Then you will surely be ashamed and feel dishonor Because of all your evil." 
Jeremiah22:23 You who inhabit Lebanon, Nested in the cedars, How you will groan when pangs come upon you, Pain like a woman in childbirth!" 
Jeremiah22:24 “As I live,” declares Yahweh, “even though Coniah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah were a signet ring on My right hand, yet I would pull you off;" 
Jeremiah22:25 and I will give you over into the hand of those who are seeking your life, indeed, into the hand of those whom you dread, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and into the hand of the Chaldeans." 
Jeremiah22:26 I will hurl you and your mother who bore you into another land—there you were not born, but there you will die." 
Jeremiah22:27 But as for the land to which their soul desires to return, they will not return to it." 
Jeremiah22:28 Is this man Coniah a despised, shattered jar? Or is he an undesirable vessel? Why have he and his seed been hurled out And cast into a land that they had not known?" 
Jeremiah22:29 O land, land, land, Hear the word of Yahweh!" 
Jeremiah22:30 Thus says Yahweh, ‘Write this man down childless, A man who will not succeed in his days; For no man of his seed will succeed Sitting on the throne of David Or ruling again in Judah.’”" 
Jeremiah23:1 “Woe to the shepherds who are destroying and scattering the sheep of My pasture!” declares Yahweh. 
Jeremiah23:2 Therefore thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, concerning the shepherds who are shepherding My people: “You have scattered My flock and banished them and have not attended to them; behold, I am about to attend to you for the evil of your deeds,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:3 “Then I Myself will gather the remnant of My flock out of all the land where I have banished them and cause them to return to their pasture, and they will be fruitful and multiply." 
Jeremiah23:4 I will also raise up shepherds over them, and they will shepherd them; and they will not be afraid any longer, nor be terrified, nor will any be left unattended,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:5 “Behold, the days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “When I will raise up for David a righteous Branch; And He will reign as king and prosper And do justice and righteousness in the land." 
Jeremiah23:6 In His days Judah will be saved, And Israel will dwell securely; And this is His name by which He will be called, ‘Yahweh our righteousness.’" 
Jeremiah23:7 “Therefore behold, the days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “when they will no longer say, ‘As Yahweh lives, who brought up the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt,’" 
Jeremiah23:8 but, ‘As Yahweh lives, who brought up and brought back the seed of the household of Israel from the north land and from all the lands where I had banished them.’ Then they will live on their own soil.”" 
Jeremiah23:9 As for the prophets: My heart is broken within me; All my bones tremble; I have become like a drunken man, Even like a man overcome with wine, Because of Yahweh And because of His holy words." 
Jeremiah23:10 For the land is full of adulterers; For the land mourns because of the curse. The pastures of the wilderness have dried up. Their course also is evil, And their might is not right." 
Jeremiah23:11 “For both prophet and priest are polluted; Even in My house I have found their evil,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:12 “Therefore their way will be like slippery paths to them; They will be driven away into the thick darkness and fall down in it; For I will bring their evil upon them, The year of their punishment,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:13 “Moreover, among the prophets of Samaria I saw an offensive thing: They prophesied by Baal and led My people Israel astray." 
Jeremiah23:14 Also among the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen an appalling thing: The committing of adultery and walking in lying; And they strengthen the hands of evildoers, So that no one has turned back from his evil. All of them have become to Me like Sodom, And her inhabitants like Gomorrah." 
Jeremiah23:15 Therefore thus says Yahweh of hosts concerning the prophets, ‘Behold, I am going to feed them wormwood And make them drink poisoned water, For from the prophets of Jerusalem Pollution has gone forth into all the land.’”" 
Jeremiah23:16 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Do not listen to the words of the prophets who are prophesying to you. They are leading you into vanity; They speak a vision of their own heart, Not from the mouth of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:17 They keep saying to those who spurn Me, ‘Yahweh has said, “You will have peace”’; And as for everyone who walks in the stubbornness of his own heart, They say, ‘Evil will not come upon you.’" 
Jeremiah23:18 But who has stood in the council of Yahweh, That he should see and hear His word? Who has given heed to His word and heard?" 
Jeremiah23:19 Behold, the storm of Yahweh has gone forth in wrath, Even a whirling storm; It will whirl down on the head of the wicked." 
Jeremiah23:20 The anger of Yahweh will not turn back Until He has done and established the purposes of His heart; In the last days you will clearly understand it. 
Jeremiah23:21 I did not send these prophets, But they ran. I did not speak to them, But they prophesied." 
Jeremiah23:22 But if they had stood in My council, Then they would have caused My words to be heard by My people And would have turned them back from their evil way And from the evil of their deeds." 
Jeremiah23:23 “Am I a God who is near,” declares Yahweh, “And not a God far off?" 
Jeremiah23:24 Can a man hide himself in hiding places So I do not see him?” declares Yahweh. “Do I not fill the heavens and the earth?” declares Yahweh. 
Jeremiah23:25 “I have heard what the prophets have said who prophesy a lie in My name, saying, ‘I had a dream, I had a dream!’" 
Jeremiah23:26 How long? Is there anything in the hearts of the prophets who prophesy a lie, even these prophets of the deception of their own heart," 
Jeremiah23:27 who intend to make My people forget My name by their dreams which they recount to one another, just as their fathers forgot My name because of Baal?" 
Jeremiah23:28 The prophet who has a dream may recount his dream, but let him who has My word speak My word in truth. What does straw have in common with grain?” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:29 “Is not My word like fire?” declares Yahweh, “and like a hammer which shatters a rock?" 
Jeremiah23:30 Therefore behold, I am against the prophets,” declares Yahweh, “who steal My words from each other." 
Jeremiah23:31 Behold, I am against the prophets,” declares Yahweh, “who take their tongues and declare, ‘Yahweh declares.’" 
Jeremiah23:32 Behold, I am against those who have prophesied lying dreams,” declares Yahweh, “and who recounted them and led My people astray by their lying and reckless boasting; yet I did not send them, and I did not command them, and they do not furnish this people the slightest benefit,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:33 “Now when this people or the prophet or a priest asks you, saying, ‘What is the oracle of Yahweh?’ then you shall say to them, ‘What oracle?’ Yahweh declares, ‘I will abandon you.’" 
Jeremiah23:34 Then as for the prophet or the priest or the people who say, ‘The oracle of Yahweh,’ I will bring punishment upon that man and his household." 
Jeremiah23:35 Thus will each of you say to his neighbor and to his brother, ‘What has Yahweh answered?’ or, ‘What has Yahweh spoken?’" 
Jeremiah23:36 For you will no longer remember the oracle of Yahweh because every man’s own word will become the oracle, and you have perverted the words of the living God, Yahweh of hosts, our God." 
Jeremiah23:37 Thus you will say to that prophet, ‘What has Yahweh answered you?’ and, ‘What has Yahweh spoken?’" 
Jeremiah23:38 For if you all say, ‘The oracle of Yahweh!’ surely thus says Yahweh, ‘Because you said this word, “The oracle of Yahweh!” I have also sent to you, saying, “You shall not say, ‘The oracle of Yahweh!’”’" 
Jeremiah23:39 Therefore behold, I will surely forget you and abandon you, along with the city which I gave you and your fathers, so that you are out of My presence." 
Jeremiah23:40 I will put an everlasting reproach on you and an everlasting humiliation which will not be forgotten.” 
Jeremiah24:1 After Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had taken away into exile Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and the officials of Judah with the craftsmen and smiths from Jerusalem, and had brought them to Babylon, Yahweh showed me: behold, two baskets of figs set before the temple of Yahweh!" 
Jeremiah24:2 One basket had very good figs, like first-ripe figs, and the other basket had very rotten figs which could not be eaten due to rottenness." 
Jeremiah24:3 Then Yahweh said to me, “What do you see, Jeremiah?” And I said, “Figs, the good figs, very good; and the rotten figs, very rotten, which cannot be eaten due to rottenness.”" 
Jeremiah24:4 Then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Jeremiah24:5 “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Like these good figs, so I will recognize as good the exiles of Judah, whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans." 
Jeremiah24:6 For I will set My eyes on them for good, and I will return them to this land; and I will build them up and not pull them down, and I will plant them and not uproot them." 
Jeremiah24:7 I will give them a heart to know Me, for I am Yahweh; and they will be My people, and I will be their God, for they will return to Me with their whole heart." 
Jeremiah24:8 ‘But like the rotten figs which cannot be eaten due to rottenness—indeed, thus says Yahweh—so I will give over Zedekiah king of Judah and his officials and the remnant of Jerusalem who remain in this land and the ones who inhabit the land of Egypt." 
Jeremiah24:9 I will give them over to be a terror and an evil for all the kingdoms of the earth, as a reproach and a proverb, a byword and a curse in all places where I will banish them." 
Jeremiah24:10 I will send the sword, the famine, and the pestilence upon them until they come to an end from being upon the land which I gave to them and their fathers.’”" 
Jeremiah25:1 The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah (that was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon)," 
Jeremiah25:2 which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying," 
Jeremiah25:3 “From the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, even to this day, these twenty-three years the word of Yahweh has come to me, and I have spoken to you, rising up early and speaking, but you have not listened." 
Jeremiah25:4 And Yahweh has sent to you all His slaves the prophets, rising up early and sending, but you have not listened nor inclined your ear to hear," 
Jeremiah25:5 saying, ‘Turn now everyone from his evil way and from the evil of your deeds, and live on the ground which Yahweh has given to you and your fathers forever and ever;" 
Jeremiah25:6 and do not walk after other gods to serve them and to worship them, and do not provoke Me to anger with the work of your hands, and I will bring no evil against you.’" 
Jeremiah25:7 Yet you have not listened to Me,” declares Yahweh, “in order that you might provoke Me to anger with the work of your hands to your own evil demise." 
Jeremiah25:8 “Therefore thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘Because you have not listened to My words," 
Jeremiah25:9 behold, I will send and take all the families of the north,’ declares Yahweh, ‘and I will send to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, My servant, and will bring them against this land and against its inhabitants and against all these surrounding nations; and I will devote them to destruction and make them an object of horror and of hissing and an everlasting waste place." 
Jeremiah25:10 Moreover, I will make the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones and the light of the lamp, to perish from them." 
Jeremiah25:11 This whole land will be a waste place and an object of horror, and these nations will serve the king of Babylon seventy years." 
Jeremiah25:12 ‘Then it will be when seventy years are fulfilled, that I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation,’ declares Yahweh, ‘for their iniquity, even the land of the Chaldeans; and I will make it an everlasting desolation." 
Jeremiah25:13 I will bring upon that land all My words which I have spoken against it, all that is written in this book which Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations." 
Jeremiah25:14 —For many nations and great kings will make slaves of them, even them; and I will repay them according to their deeds and according to the work of their hands—’”" 
Jeremiah25:15 For thus Yahweh, the God of Israel, says to me, “Take this cup of the wine of wrath from My hand and cause all the nations to whom I send you to drink it." 
Jeremiah25:16 They will drink and stagger and go mad because of the sword that I will send among them.” 
Jeremiah25:17 Then I took the cup from the hand of Yahweh and made all the nations to whom Yahweh sent me drink it: 
Jeremiah25:18 Jerusalem and the cities of Judah and its kings and its princes, to make them a waste place, an object of horror, an object of hissing, and a curse, as it is this day;" 
Jeremiah25:19 Pharaoh king of Egypt, his servants, his princes, and all his people," 
Jeremiah25:20 and all the foreign people, all the kings of the land of Uz, all the kings of the land of the Philistines (even Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod)," 
Jeremiah25:21 Edom, Moab, and the sons of Ammon," 
Jeremiah25:22 and all the kings of Tyre, all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the coastlands which are beyond the sea," 
Jeremiah25:23 and Dedan, Tema, Buz, and all who cut the corners of their hair," 
Jeremiah25:24 and all the kings of Arabia and all the kings of the foreign people who dwell in the desert," 
Jeremiah25:25 and all the kings of Zimri, all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of Media," 
Jeremiah25:26 and all the kings of the north, near and far, one with another; and all the kingdoms of the earth which are upon the face of the ground, and the king of Sheshach shall drink after them." 
Jeremiah25:27 “You shall say to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Drink, be drunk, vomit, fall, and rise no more because of the sword which I will send among you.”’" 
Jeremiah25:28 And it will be, if they refuse to take the cup from your hand to drink, then you will say to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts: “You shall surely drink!" 
Jeremiah25:29 For behold, I am beginning to bring evil against this city which is called by My name. But shall you be completely free from punishment? You will not be free from punishment, for I am calling for a sword against all the inhabitants of the earth,” declares Yahweh of hosts.’" 
Jeremiah25:30 “Therefore you shall prophesy against them all these words, and you shall say to them, ‘Yahweh will roar from on high And give forth His voice from His holy habitation; He will roar mightily against His pasture. He will bellow a shout like those who tread the grapes, Against all the inhabitants of the earth." 
Jeremiah25:31 A rumbling has come to the end of the earth Because Yahweh has a contention against the nations. He is entering into judgment with all flesh; As for the wicked, He has given them to the sword,’ declares Yahweh.”" 
Jeremiah25:32 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Behold, evil is going forth From nation to nation, And a great storm is being stirred up From the remotest parts of the earth." 
Jeremiah25:33 “Those slain by Yahweh on that day will be from one end of the earth to the other. They will not be lamented, gathered, or buried; they will be like dung on the face of the ground." 
Jeremiah25:34 Wail, you shepherds, and cry out; And roll yourselves in ashes, you masters of the flock; For the days of your slaughter and your scatterings are being fulfilled, And you will fall like a desirable vessel." 
Jeremiah25:35 Refuge will perish from the shepherds And escape from the mighty ones of the flock. 
Jeremiah25:36 Hear the sound of the cry of the shepherds, And the wailing of the mighty ones of the flock! For Yahweh is destroying their pasture," 
Jeremiah25:37 And the peaceful pastures are made silent Because of the burning anger of Yahweh. 
Jeremiah25:38 He has forsaken His hiding place like the lion; For their land has become an object of horror Because of the burning desire of the oppressor And because of His burning anger.” 
Jeremiah26:1 In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came from Yahweh, saying," 
Jeremiah26:2 “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Stand in the court of the house of Yahweh, and you shall speak to all the cities of Judah who have come to worship in the house of Yahweh all the words that I have commanded you to speak to them. Do not take away a word!" 
Jeremiah26:3 Perhaps they will listen and everyone will turn from his evil way, that I may relent of the evil which I am devising to bring against them because of the evil of their deeds.’" 
Jeremiah26:4 And you will say to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “If you will not listen to Me, to walk in My law which I have given before you," 
Jeremiah26:5 to listen to the words of My slaves the prophets, whom I have been sending to you, rising up early and sending, but you have not listened," 
Jeremiah26:6 then I will make this house like Shiloh, and this city I will make a curse to all the nations of the earth.”’”" 
Jeremiah26:7 The priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of Yahweh. 
Jeremiah26:8 Now it happened that when Jeremiah finished speaking all that Yahweh had commanded him to speak to all the people, the priests and the prophets and all the people seized him, saying, “You must surely die!" 
Jeremiah26:9 Why have you prophesied in the name of Yahweh saying, ‘This house will be like Shiloh, and this city will be laid waste, without inhabitant’?” And all the people gathered about Jeremiah in the house of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah26:10 When the officials of Judah heard these things, they came up from the king’s house to the house of Yahweh and sat in the entrance of the New Gate of the house of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah26:11 Then the priests and the prophets spoke to the officials and to all the people, saying, “A judgment of death for this man! For he has prophesied against this city as you have heard in your hearing.”" 
Jeremiah26:12 Then Jeremiah spoke to all the officials and to all the people, saying, “Yahweh sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city all the words that you have heard." 
Jeremiah26:13 So now, make good your ways and your deeds and listen to the voice of Yahweh your God; and Yahweh will relent of the evil demise which He has spoken against you." 
Jeremiah26:14 But as for me, behold, I am in your hands; do with me as is good and right in your eyes." 
Jeremiah26:15 Only know for certain that if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood on yourselves and on this city and on its inhabitants; for truly Yahweh has sent me to you to speak all these words in your hearing.”" 
Jeremiah26:16 Then the officials and all the people said to the priests and to the prophets, “No judgment of death for this man! For he has spoken to us in the name of Yahweh our God.”" 
Jeremiah26:17 Then some of the elders of the land rose up and spoke to all the assembly of the people, saying," 
Jeremiah26:18 “Micah of Moresheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah; and he spoke to all the people of Judah, saying, ‘Thus Yahweh of hosts has said, “Zion will be plowed as a field, And Jerusalem will become a heap of ruins, And the mountain of the house will become the high places of a forest.”’" 
Jeremiah26:18 “Micah of Moresheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah; and he spoke to all the people of Judah, saying, ‘Thus Yahweh of hosts has said, “Zion will be plowed as a field, And Jerusalem will become a heap of ruins, And the mountain of the house will become the high places of a forest.”’" 
Jeremiah26:19 Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him to death? Did he not fear Yahweh and entreat the favor of Yahweh, and Yahweh relented of the evil demise which He had spoken against them? But we are committing a great evil against ourselves.”" 
Jeremiah26:20 Indeed, there was also a man who prophesied in the name of Yahweh, Uriah the son of Shemaiah from Kiriath-jearim; and he prophesied against this city and against this land words similar to all those of Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah26:21 And King Jehoiakim and all his mighty men and all the officials heard his words. So the king sought to put him to death; but Uriah heard it, and he was afraid and fled and went to Egypt." 
Jeremiah26:22 Then King Jehoiakim sent men to Egypt: Elnathan the son of Achbor and certain men with him went into Egypt. 
Jeremiah26:23 And they brought Uriah out from Egypt and led him to King Jehoiakim, who struck him down with a sword and cast his dead body into the burial place of the common people." 
Jeremiah26:24 But the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah, so that he was not given into the hands of the people to put him to death." 
Jeremiah27:1 In the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying—" 
Jeremiah27:2 thus says Yahweh to me—“Make for yourself bonds and the bars of a yoke and put them on your neck," 
Jeremiah27:3 and you shall send word to the king of Edom, to the king of Moab, to the king of the sons of Ammon, to the king of Tyre, and to the king of Sidon by the hand of messengers who come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah." 
Jeremiah27:4 And you shall command them to go to their masters, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, thus you shall say to your masters," 
Jeremiah27:5 “I have made the earth, the men, and the animals which are on the face of the earth by My great power and by My outstretched arm, and I will give it to the one who is right in My eyes." 
Jeremiah27:6 So now, I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, My servant, and I have given him even the wild beasts of the field to serve him." 
Jeremiah27:7 All the nations shall serve him and his son and his grandson until the time of his own land comes; then many nations and great kings will make him their servant. 
Jeremiah27:8 “And it will be, that the nation or the kingdom which will not serve him, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and which will not put its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, I will punish that nation with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence,” declares Yahweh, “until I have brought it to an end by his hand." 
Jeremiah27:9 But as for you, do not listen to your prophets, your diviners, your dreamers, your soothsayers, or your sorcerers who speak to you, saying, ‘You will not serve the king of Babylon.’" 
Jeremiah27:10 For they prophesy a lie to you in order to remove you far from your land; and I will banish you, and you will perish." 
Jeremiah27:11 But the nation which will bring its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serve him, I will leave it on its land,” declares Yahweh, “and they will serve it and inhabit it.”’”" 
Jeremiah27:12 I spoke words like all these to Zedekiah king of Judah, saying, “Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serve him and his people, and live!" 
Jeremiah27:13 Why will you die, you and your people, by the sword, famine, and pestilence, as Yahweh has spoken to that nation which will not serve the king of Babylon?" 
Jeremiah27:14 So do not listen to the words of the prophets who speak to you, saying, ‘You will not serve the king of Babylon,’ for they prophesy a lie to you;" 
Jeremiah27:15 for I have not sent them,” declares Yahweh, “but they prophesy a lie in My name, in order that I may banish you and that you may perish, you and the prophets who prophesy to you.”" 
Jeremiah27:16 Then I spoke to the priests and to all this people, saying, “Thus says Yahweh: Do not listen to the words of your prophets who prophesy to you, saying, ‘Behold, the vessels of the house of Yahweh will now shortly be returned from Babylon’; for they are prophesying a lie to you." 
Jeremiah27:17 Do not listen to them; serve the king of Babylon, and live! Why should this city become a waste place?" 
Jeremiah27:18 But if they are prophets, and if the word of Yahweh is with them, let them now intercede with Yahweh of hosts that the vessels which are left in the house of Yahweh, in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem may not go to Babylon." 
Jeremiah27:19 For thus says Yahweh of hosts concerning the pillars, concerning the sea, concerning the stands, and concerning the rest of the vessels that are left in this city," 
Jeremiah27:20 which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon did not take when he carried away into exile Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, from Jerusalem to Babylon, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah27:21 Indeed, thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that are left in the house of Yahweh and in the house of the king of Judah and in Jerusalem," 
Jeremiah27:22 ‘They will be brought to Babylon, and they will be there until the day I visit them,’ declares Yahweh. ‘Then I will bring them up and return them to this place.’”" 
Jeremiah28:1 Now it happened in the same year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, that Hananiah the son of Azzur, the prophet, who was from Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of Yahweh in the sight of the priests and all the people, saying," 
Jeremiah28:2 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah28:3 Within two years I am going to return to this place all the vessels of the house of Yahweh, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place and carried to Babylon." 
Jeremiah28:4 I am also going to return to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the exiles of Judah who went to Babylon,’ declares Yahweh, ‘for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.’”" 
Jeremiah28:5 Then the prophet Jeremiah spoke to the prophet Hananiah in the sight of the priests and in the sight of all the people who were standing in the house of Yahweh," 
Jeremiah28:6 and the prophet Jeremiah said, “Amen! May Yahweh do so; may Yahweh establish your words which you have prophesied to return the vessels of the house of Yahweh and all the exiles, from Babylon to this place." 
Jeremiah28:7 Yet hear now this word which I am about to speak in your hearing and in the hearing of all the people! 
Jeremiah28:8 The prophets who were before me and before you from ancient times prophesied against many lands and against great kingdoms, of war and of calamity and of pestilence." 
Jeremiah28:9 The prophet who prophesies of peace, when the word of the prophet comes to pass, then that prophet will be known as one whom Yahweh has truly sent.”" 
Jeremiah28:10 Then Hananiah the prophet took the bar of the yoke from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet and broke it. 
Jeremiah28:11 And Hananiah spoke in the sight of all the people, saying, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Even so will I break within two full years the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon from the neck of all the nations.’” Then the prophet Jeremiah went his way." 
Jeremiah28:12 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah after Hananiah the prophet had broken the bar of the yoke from off the neck of the prophet Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah28:13 “Go and speak to Hananiah, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “You have broken the bars of a yoke made of wood, but you have made in their place the bars of a yoke made of iron.”" 
Jeremiah28:14 For thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “I have put a yoke of iron on the neck of all these nations, that they may serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and they will serve him. And I have even given him the beasts of the field.”’”" 
Jeremiah28:15 Then Jeremiah the prophet said to Hananiah the prophet, “Listen now, Hananiah, Yahweh has not sent you, and you have made this people trust in a lie." 
Jeremiah28:16 Therefore thus says Yahweh, ‘Behold, I am about to remove you from the face of the earth. This year you are going to die because you have spoken rebellion against Yahweh.’”" 
Jeremiah28:17 So Hananiah the prophet died in the same year in the seventh month. 
Jeremiah29:1 Now these are the words of the letter which Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the rest of the elders of the exile, the priests, the prophets, and all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had taken away into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon." 
Jeremiah29:2 (This was after King Jeconiah and the queen mother, the court officials, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen, and the smiths had gone out from Jerusalem.)" 
Jeremiah29:3 The letter was sent by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, saying," 
Jeremiah29:4 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the exiles whom I have sent into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon," 
Jeremiah29:5 ‘Build houses and live in them; and plant gardens and eat their fruit. 
Jeremiah29:6 Take wives and become the fathers of sons and daughters, and take wives for your sons and give your daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters; and multiply there and do not decrease." 
Jeremiah29:7 Seek the peace of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to Yahweh on its behalf; for in its peace you will have peace.’" 
Jeremiah29:8 For thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘Do not let your prophets who are in your midst and your diviners deceive you, and do not listen to your dreams which you dream." 
Jeremiah29:9 For they prophesy a lie to you in My name; I have not sent them,’ declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah29:10 “For thus says Yahweh, ‘When seventy years have been fulfilled for Babylon, I will visit you and establish My good word to you, to return you to this place." 
Jeremiah29:11 For I know the plans that I have for you,’ declares Yahweh, ‘plans for peace and not for calamity, to give you a future and a hope." 
Jeremiah29:12 Then you will call upon Me and come and pray to Me, and I will listen to you." 
Jeremiah29:13 You will seek Me and find Me when you search for Me with all your heart. 
Jeremiah29:14 I will be found by you,’ declares Yahweh, ‘and I will return your fortunes and will gather you from all the nations and from all the places where I have banished you,’ declares Yahweh, ‘and I will cause you to return to the place from where I sent you into exile.’" 
Jeremiah29:15 “Because you have said, ‘Yahweh has raised up prophets for us in Babylon’—" 
Jeremiah29:16 for thus says Yahweh concerning the king who sits on the throne of David and concerning all the people who live in this city, your brothers who did not go with you into exile—" 
Jeremiah29:17 thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘Behold, I am sending upon them the sword, famine, and pestilence, and I will make them like split-open figs that cannot be eaten due to rottenness." 
Jeremiah29:18 I will pursue them with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence; and I will give them over to be a terror to all the kingdoms of the earth, to be a curse and an object of horror and of hissing, and a reproach among all the nations where I have banished them," 
Jeremiah29:19 because they have not listened to My words,’ declares Yahweh, ‘which I sent to them by My slaves the prophets, rising up early and sending; but you did not listen,’ declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah29:20 You, therefore, hear the word of Yahweh, all you exiles, whom I have sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon." 
Jeremiah29:21 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah and concerning Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, who are prophesying to you falsely in My name, ‘Behold, I will give them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he will strike them down before your eyes." 
Jeremiah29:22 And because of them a curse will be used by all the exiles from Judah who are in Babylon, saying, “May Yahweh make you like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire" 
Jeremiah29:23 because they have acted with wicked foolishness in Israel and have committed adultery with their neighbors’ wives and have spoken words in My name falsely, which I did not command them; and I am He who knows and am a witness,” declares Yahweh.’”" 
Jeremiah29:24 And to Shemaiah the Nehelamite you shall speak, saying," 
Jeremiah29:25 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘Because you have sent letters in your own name to all the people who are in Jerusalem and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, and to all the priests, saying," 
Jeremiah29:25 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘Because you have sent letters in your own name to all the people who are in Jerusalem and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, and to all the priests, saying," 
Jeremiah29:26 “Yahweh has given you to be a priest instead of Jehoiada the priest, to be the overseer in the house of Yahweh over every madman who prophesies, to put him in the stocks and in the iron collar," 
Jeremiah29:27 so now, why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth who prophesies to you?" 
Jeremiah29:28 For he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, ‘The exile will be long; build houses and live in them and plant gardens and eat their fruit.’”’”" 
Jeremiah29:29 So Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet. 
Jeremiah29:29 So Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet. 
Jeremiah29:30 Then came the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah29:31 “Send to all the exiles, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite, “Because Shemaiah has prophesied to you, although I did not send him, and he has made you trust in a lie,”" 
Jeremiah29:32 therefore thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am about to punish Shemaiah the Nehelamite and his seed; he will not have anyone living among this people, and he will not see the good that I am about to do to My people,” declares Yahweh, “because he has spoken rebellion against Yahweh.”’”" 
Jeremiah30:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying," 
Jeremiah30:2 “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Write all the words which I have spoken to you in a book." 
Jeremiah30:3 For behold, days are coming,’ declares Yahweh, ‘when I will return the fortunes of My people Israel and Judah.’ Yahweh says, ‘I will also cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall possess it.’”" 
Jeremiah30:4 Now these are the words which Yahweh spoke concerning Israel and concerning Judah: 
Jeremiah30:5 “For thus says Yahweh, ‘We have heard a sound of trembling, Of dread, and there is no peace." 
Jeremiah30:6 Ask now, and see If a male can give birth. Why do I see every man With his hands on his loins, as a woman in childbirth? And why have all faces turned pale?" 
Jeremiah30:7 Alas! For that day is great, There is none like it; And it is the time of Jacob’s distress, But he will be saved from it." 
Jeremiah30:8 ‘And it will be in that day,’ declares Yahweh of hosts, ‘that I will break his yoke from off your neck and will tear off your bonds; and strangers will no longer make them their slaves." 
Jeremiah30:9 But they shall be a slave to Yahweh their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them." 
Jeremiah30:10 Fear not, O Jacob My servant,’ declares Yahweh, ‘And do not be dismayed, O Israel; For behold, I will save you from afar And your seed from the land of their captivity. And Jacob will return and will be quiet and at ease, And no one will make him tremble." 
Jeremiah30:11 For I am with you,’ declares Yahweh, ‘to save you; For I will make a complete destruction of all the nations where I have scattered you, Only I will not make a complete destruction of you. But I will chasten you justly And will by no means leave you unpunished.’" 
Jeremiah30:12 “For thus says Yahweh, ‘Your injury is incurable, And your wound is desperately sick." 
Jeremiah30:13 There is no one to plead your cause; No healing for your sore, No recovery for you." 
Jeremiah30:14 All your lovers have forgotten you; They do not seek you; For I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy, With the punishment of a cruel one, Because your iniquity is numerous And your sins are mighty." 
Jeremiah30:15 Why do you cry out over your injury? Your pain is incurable. Because your iniquity is numerous And your sins are mighty, I have done these things to you." 
Jeremiah30:16 Therefore all who devour you will be devoured; And all your adversaries, every one of them, will go into captivity; And those who take you as spoil will be spoil, And all who plunder you I will give as plunder." 
Jeremiah30:17 For I will restore you to health, And I will heal you of your wounds,’ declares Yahweh, ‘Because they have called you a banished one, saying: “It is Zion; no one is seeking her.”’" 
Jeremiah30:18 “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Behold, I will return the fortunes of the tents of Jacob And have compassion on his dwelling places; And the city will be rebuilt on its ruin, And the palace will sit on its just place." 
Jeremiah30:19 From them will come forth thanksgiving And the voice of those who celebrate; And I will multiply them, and they will not decrease; I will also honor them, and they will not be insignificant." 
Jeremiah30:20 Their children also will be as formerly, And their congregation shall be established before Me; And I will punish all their oppressors." 
Jeremiah30:21 And their mighty one shall be one of them, And their ruler shall come forth from their midst; And I will bring Him near, and He shall approach Me; For who would dare to give his heart as security to approach Me?’ declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah30:22 ‘You shall be My people, And I will be your God.’”" 
Jeremiah30:23 Behold, the storm of Yahweh! Wrath has gone forth, A sweeping storm; It will burst on the head of the wicked." 
Jeremiah30:24 The burning anger of Yahweh will not turn back Until He has done and until He has established The intent of His heart; In the last days you will understand this. 
Jeremiah31:1 “At that time,” declares Yahweh, “I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be My people.”" 
Jeremiah31:2 Thus says Yahweh, “The people who survived the sword Found grace in the wilderness— Israel, when it went to find its relief.”" 
Jeremiah31:3 Yahweh appeared to him from afar, saying, “I have loved you with an everlasting love; Therefore I have drawn you with lovingkindness." 
Jeremiah31:4 Again I will build you, and you will be rebuilt, O virgin of Israel! Again you will take up your tambourines And go forth to the dances of those celebrating." 
Jeremiah31:5 Again you will plant vineyards On the hills of Samaria; The planters will plant And will enjoy them. 
Jeremiah31:6 For there will be a day when watchmen On the hills of Ephraim call out, ‘Arise, and let us go up to Zion, To Yahweh our God.’”" 
Jeremiah31:7 For thus says Yahweh, “Sing aloud with gladness for Jacob, And shout among the head of the nations; Make it heard, give praise, and say, ‘O Yahweh, save Your people, The remnant of Israel.’" 
Jeremiah31:8 Behold, I am bringing them from the north country, And I will gather them from the remote parts of the earth, Among them the blind and the lame, The woman with child and she who is in labor with child, together; A great assembly, they will return here." 
Jeremiah31:9 With weeping they will come, And by supplication I will lead them; I will make them walk by streams of waters, On a straight path in which they will not stumble; For I am a father to Israel, And Ephraim is My firstborn.”" 
Jeremiah31:10 Hear the word of Yahweh, O nations, And declare in the coastlands far away, And say, “He who dispersed Israel will gather him And keep him as a shepherd keeps his flock.”" 
Jeremiah31:11 For Yahweh has ransomed Jacob And redeemed him from the hand of him who was stronger than he. 
Jeremiah31:12 “They will come and sing for joy on the height of Zion, And they will be radiant over the goodness of Yahweh— Over the grain and the new wine and the oil, And over the young of the flock and the herd; And their soul will be like a watered garden, And they will never waste away again." 
Jeremiah31:13 Then the virgin will be glad in the dance, And the young men and the old, together, For I will turn their mourning into joy And will comfort them and give them gladness for their sorrow." 
Jeremiah31:14 I will fill the soul of the priests with richness, And My people will be satisfied with My goodness,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:15 Thus says Yahweh, “A voice is heard in Ramah, Wailing and bitter weeping. Rachel is weeping for her children; She refuses to be comforted for her children Because they are no more.”" 
Jeremiah31:16 Thus says Yahweh, “Restrain your voice from weeping And your eyes from tears, For your work will be rewarded,” declares Yahweh, “And they will return from the land of the enemy." 
Jeremiah31:17 And there is hope for your future,” declares Yahweh, “And your children will return to their own territory." 
Jeremiah31:18 I have surely heard Ephraim grieving, ‘You have chastised me, and I was chastised, Like an untrained calf; Cause me to return that I may return, For You are Yahweh my God." 
Jeremiah31:19 For after I turned away, I repented; And after I was instructed, I slapped my thigh; I was ashamed and also dishonored Because I bore the reproach of my youth.’" 
Jeremiah31:20 Is Ephraim My dear son? Is he a delightful child? Indeed, as often as I have spoken against him, I certainly still remember him; Therefore My inmost being yearns for him; I will surely have compassion on him,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:21 “Set up roadmarks for yourself, Place for yourself guideposts; Set your heart to the highway, The way by which you went. Return, O virgin of Israel, Return to these your cities." 
Jeremiah31:22 How long will you go here and there, O faithless daughter? For Yahweh has created a new thing in the earth— A woman will encompass a man.”" 
Jeremiah31:23 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Once again they will speak this word in the land of Judah and in its cities when I return their fortunes, ‘Yahweh bless you, O abode of righteousness, O holy hill!’" 
Jeremiah31:24 And Judah and all its cities will inhabit it together, the farmer and they who go about with flocks." 
Jeremiah31:25 For I satisfy the weary soul and fill up every soul who wastes away.” 
Jeremiah31:26 At this I awoke and looked, and my sleep was pleasant to me." 
Jeremiah31:27 “Behold, days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man and with the seed of beast." 
Jeremiah31:28 And it will be that as I have watched over them to uproot, to tear down, to pull down, to destroy, and to bring calamity, so I will watch over them to build and to plant,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:29 “In those days they will not say again, ‘The fathers have eaten sour grapes, And the children’s teeth are set on edge.’" 
Jeremiah31:30 But everyone will die for his own iniquity; each man who eats the sour grapes, his teeth will be set on edge." 
Jeremiah31:31 “Behold, days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “when I will cut a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah," 
Jeremiah31:32 not like the covenant which I cut with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, My covenant which they broke, but I was a husband to them,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:33 “But this is the covenant which I will cut with the house of Israel after those days,” declares Yahweh: “I will put My law within them, and on their heart I will write it; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people." 
Jeremiah31:34 And they will not teach again, each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, ‘Know Yahweh,’ for they will all know Me, from the least of them to the greatest of them,” declares Yahweh, “for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more.”" 
Jeremiah31:35 Thus says Yahweh, Who gives the sun for light by day And the statutes for the moon and the stars for light by night, Who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar; Yahweh of hosts is His name:" 
Jeremiah31:36 “If these statutes are removed From before Me,” declares Yahweh, “Then the seed of Israel also will cease From being a nation before Me forever.”" 
Jeremiah31:37 Thus says Yahweh, “If the heavens above can be measured And the foundations of the earth searched out below, Then I will also reject all the seed of Israel For all that they have done,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:38 “Behold, days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “when the city will be rebuilt for Yahweh from the Tower of Hananel to the Corner Gate." 
Jeremiah31:39 The measuring line will go out farther, straight ahead to the hill Gareb; then it will turn to Goah." 
Jeremiah31:40 And the whole valley of the dead bodies and of the ashes, and all the fields as far as the brook Kidron, to the corner of the Horse Gate toward the east, shall be holy to Yahweh; it will not be uprooted or pulled down anymore forever.”" 
Jeremiah32:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh in the tenth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar." 
Jeremiah32:2 Now at that time the military force of the king of Babylon was besieging Jerusalem, and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of the guard, which was in the house of the king of Judah," 
Jeremiah32:3 because Zedekiah king of Judah had shut him up, saying, “Why do you prophesy, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am about to give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will capture it;" 
Jeremiah32:4 and Zedekiah king of Judah will not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but he will surely be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will speak with him face to face and see him eye to eye;" 
Jeremiah32:5 and he will lead Zedekiah to Babylon, and he will be there until I visit him,” declares Yahweh. “If you fight against the Chaldeans, you will not succeed”’?”" 
Jeremiah32:6 And Jeremiah said, “The word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Jeremiah32:7 ‘Behold, Hanamel the son of Shallum your uncle is coming to you, saying, “Buy for yourself my field which is at Anathoth, for you have the legal judgment for redemption to buy it.”’" 
Jeremiah32:8 Then Hanamel my uncle’s son came to me in the court of the guard according to the word of Yahweh and said to me, ‘Buy my field, please, that is at Anathoth, which is in the land of Benjamin; for you have the legal judgment for possession, and the redemption is yours; buy it for yourself.’ Then I knew that this was the word of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah32:9 “I bought the field which was at Anathoth from Hanamel my uncle’s son, and I weighed out the silver for him, seventeen shekels of silver." 
Jeremiah32:10 And I signed and sealed the deed and called in witnesses and weighed out the silver on the scales. 
Jeremiah32:11 Then I took the deeds of purchase, both the sealed copy containing the commandment and statutes and the open copy," 
Jeremiah32:12 and I gave the deed of purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, in the sight of Hanamel my uncle’s son and in the sight of the witnesses who signed the deed of purchase, in the sight of all the Jews who were sitting in the court of the guard." 
Jeremiah32:13 And I commanded Baruch in their sight, saying," 
Jeremiah32:14 ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Take these deeds—this deed of purchase—that is the sealed one as well as this open deed, and put them in an earthenware jar, that they may last a long time.”" 
Jeremiah32:15 For thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Houses and fields and vineyards will again be bought in this land.”’" 
Jeremiah32:16 “After I had given the deed of purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, then I prayed to Yahweh, saying," 
Jeremiah32:17 ‘Ah Lord Yahweh! Behold, You have made the heavens and the earth by Your great power and by Your outstretched arm! Nothing is too difficult for You," 
Jeremiah32:18 who shows lovingkindness to thousands, but repays the iniquity of fathers into the bosom of their children after them, O great and mighty God. Yahweh of hosts is His name," 
Jeremiah32:19 great in counsel and abundant in deeds, whose eyes are open to all the ways of the sons of men, giving to everyone according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds," 
Jeremiah32:20 who has set signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, and even to this day both in Israel and among mankind; and You have made a name for Yourself, as at this day." 
Jeremiah32:21 You brought Your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs and with wonders, and with a strong hand and with an outstretched arm and with great terror" 
Jeremiah32:22 and gave them this land, which You swore to their fathers to give them, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Jeremiah32:23 They came in and took possession of it, but they did not listen to Your voice and did not walk in Your law. They have not done anything that You commanded them to do; therefore You have made all this harmful evil come upon them." 
Jeremiah32:24 Behold, the siege ramps have come to the city to capture it; and the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans, who fight against it, because of the sword, the famine, and the pestilence; and what You have spoken has happened; and behold, You see it." 
Jeremiah32:25 And You have said to me, O Lord Yahweh, “Buy for yourself the field with money and call in witnesses”—but the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.’”" 
Jeremiah32:26 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah32:27 “Behold, I am Yahweh, the God of all flesh; is anything too difficult for Me?”" 
Jeremiah32:28 Therefore thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am about to give this city into the hand of the Chaldeans and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he will capture it." 
Jeremiah32:29 And the Chaldeans who are fighting against this city will enter and set this city on fire and burn it, with the houses where people have burned incense to Baal on their roofs and poured out drink offerings to other gods to provoke Me to anger." 
Jeremiah32:30 Indeed the sons of Israel and the sons of Judah have been doing only evil in My sight from their youth; for the sons of Israel have been only provoking Me to anger by the work of their hands,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah32:31 “Indeed this city has been to Me a provocation of My anger and My wrath from the day that they built it, even to this day, so that it should be removed from before My face" 
Jeremiah32:32 because of all the evil of the sons of Israel and the sons of Judah which they have done to provoke Me to anger—they, their kings, their princes, their priests, their prophets, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah32:33 And they have turned their back to Me and not their face; though I taught them, rising up early and teaching, they would not listen and receive discipline." 
Jeremiah32:34 But they put their detestable things in the house which is called by My name, to defile it." 
Jeremiah32:35 And they built the high places of Baal that are in the valley of Ben-hinnom to cause their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire to Molech, which I had not commanded them, nor had it come upon My heart that they should do this abomination, to cause Judah to sin." 
Jeremiah32:36 “So now, therefore thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, concerning this city of which you are saying, ‘It is given into the hand of the king of Babylon by sword, by famine, and by pestilence.’" 
Jeremiah32:37 Behold, I will gather them out of all the lands to which I have banished them in My anger, in My wrath, and in great indignation; and I will cause them to return to this place and make them inhabit it in safety." 
Jeremiah32:38 And they shall be My people, and I will be their God;" 
Jeremiah32:39 and I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear Me always, for their own good and for the good of their children after them." 
Jeremiah32:40 And I will cut an everlasting covenant with them that I will not turn away from them, to do them good; and I will put the fear of Me in their hearts so that they will not turn away from Me." 
Jeremiah32:41 And I will rejoice over them to do them good and will truly plant them in this land with all My heart and with all My soul. 
Jeremiah32:42 For thus says Yahweh, ‘Just as I brought all this great evil on this people, so I am going to bring on them all the good that I am promising them." 
Jeremiah32:43 Thus fields will be bought in this land of which you all are saying, “It is a desolation, without man or beast; it is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.”" 
Jeremiah32:44 Men will buy fields for money, sign and seal deeds, and call in witnesses in the land of Benjamin, in the surroundings of Jerusalem, in the cities of Judah, in the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the Shephelah, and in the cities of the Negev; for I will return their fortunes,’ declares Yahweh.”" 
Jeremiah33:1 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah the second time, while he was still confined in the court of the guard, saying," 
Jeremiah33:2 “Thus says Yahweh who made the earth, Yahweh who formed it to establish it; Yahweh is His name," 
Jeremiah33:3 ‘Call to Me and I will answer you, and I will tell you great and mighty things, which you do not know.’" 
Jeremiah33:4 For thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah which are torn down to make a defense against the siege ramps and against the sword," 
Jeremiah33:5 ‘While they are coming to fight with the Chaldeans and to fill them with the corpses of men whom I have struck down in My anger and in My wrath, and I have hidden My face from this city because of all their evil:" 
Jeremiah33:6 Behold, I will bring to it health and healing, and I will heal them; and I will reveal to them an abundance of peace and truth." 
Jeremiah33:7 I will return the fortunes of Judah and the fortunes of Israel and will rebuild them as they were at first. 
Jeremiah33:8 And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity by which they have sinned against Me, and I will pardon all their iniquities by which they have sinned against Me and by which they have transgressed against Me." 
Jeremiah33:9 And it will be to Me a name of joy, praise, and beauty before all the nations of the earth which will hear of all the good that I do for them, and they will be in dread and tremble because of all the good and all the peace that I make for it.’" 
Jeremiah33:10 “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Yet again there will be heard in this place, of which you say, “It is a waste, without man and without beast,” that is, in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without man and without inhabitant and without beast," 
Jeremiah33:11 the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voice of those who say, “Give thanks to Yahweh of hosts, For Yahweh is good, For His lovingkindness endures forever”; and of those who bring a thank offering into the house of Yahweh. For I will return the fortunes of the land as they were at first,’ says Yahweh." 
Jeremiah33:12 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘There will again be in this place which is waste, without man or beast, and in all its cities, an abode of shepherds who cause their flocks to lie down." 
Jeremiah33:13 In the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the Shephelah, in the cities of the Negev, in the land of Benjamin, in the surroundings of Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, the flocks will again pass under the hands of the one who numbers them,’ says Yahweh." 
Jeremiah33:14 ‘Behold, days are coming,’ declares Yahweh, ‘when I will establish the good word which I have spoken concerning the house of Israel and the house of Judah." 
Jeremiah33:15 In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous Branch of David to branch forth; and He shall do justice and righteousness on the earth. 
Jeremiah33:16 In those days Judah will be saved, and Jerusalem will dwell in security; and this is the name by which she will be called: Yahweh is our righteousness.’" 
Jeremiah33:17 For thus says Yahweh, ‘David shall not have a man cut off from sitting on the throne of the house of Israel;" 
Jeremiah33:18 and the Levitical priests shall not have a man cut off from before Me who is to offer burnt offerings, to offer up grain offerings in smoke, and to perform sacrifices continually.’”" 
Jeremiah33:19 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah33:20 “Thus says Yahweh, ‘If you can break My covenant for the day and My covenant for the night, so that day and night will not be at their appointed time," 
Jeremiah33:21 then My covenant may also be broken with David My servant so that he will not have a son to reign on his throne, and with the Levitical priests, My ministers." 
Jeremiah33:22 As the host of heaven cannot be counted and the sand of the sea cannot be measured, so I will multiply the seed of David My servant and the Levites who minister to Me.’”" 
Jeremiah33:23 And the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah33:24 “Have you not seen what this people have spoken, saying, ‘The two families which Yahweh chose, He has rejected them’? Thus they have spurned My people from being a nation any longer in their sight." 
Jeremiah33:25 Thus says Yahweh, ‘If My covenant for day and night stand not, and the statutes for heaven and earth I have not established," 
Jeremiah33:26 then I would reject the seed of Jacob and David My servant, not taking from his seed rulers over the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But I will return their fortunes and will have compassion on them.’”" 
Jeremiah34:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his military force, with all the kingdoms of the earth that were under his dominion and all the peoples, were fighting against Jerusalem and against all its cities, saying," 
Jeremiah34:2 “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Go and speak to Zedekiah king of Judah and say to him: “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will burn it with fire." 
Jeremiah34:3 And you will not escape from his hand, for you will surely be seized and given into his hand; and you will see the king of Babylon eye to eye, and he will speak with you face to face, and you will go to Babylon.’”’" 
Jeremiah34:4 Yet hear the word of Yahweh, O Zedekiah king of Judah! Thus says Yahweh concerning you, ‘You will not die by the sword." 
Jeremiah34:5 You will die in peace; and as spices were burned for your fathers, the former kings who were before you, so they will burn spices for you; and they will lament for you, “Alas, lord!”’ For I have spoken the word,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah34:6 Then Jeremiah the prophet spoke all these words to Zedekiah king of Judah in Jerusalem 
Jeremiah34:7 when the military force of the king of Babylon was fighting against Jerusalem and against all the cities of Judah that were left, that is, Lachish and Azekah, for they alone remained as fortified cities among the cities of Judah." 
Jeremiah34:8 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh after King Zedekiah had cut a covenant with all the people who were in Jerusalem to proclaim release to them: 
Jeremiah34:9 that each man should let his male slave go free and each man his female slave, a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, so that no one should enslave them, each being a Jew, his brother." 
Jeremiah34:10 And all the officials and all the people obeyed who had entered into the covenant that each man should let his male slave go free and each man his female slave, so that no one should enslave them any longer; they obeyed and let them go free." 
Jeremiah34:11 But afterwards they turned around and returned to themselves the male slaves and the female slaves, whom they had let go as free, and subdued them to be male slaves and female slaves." 
Jeremiah34:12 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying," 
Jeremiah34:13 “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘I cut a covenant with your fathers in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, from the house of slavery, saying," 
Jeremiah34:14 “At the end of seven years each of you shall let his Hebrew brother go who has been sold to you and has served you six years, and you shall let him go to be free from you; but your fathers did not obey Me or incline their ear to Me." 
Jeremiah34:15 Although recently you had turned and done what is right in My sight, each man proclaiming release to his neighbor, and you had cut a covenant before Me in the house which is called by My name." 
Jeremiah34:16 Yet you turned and profaned My name, and each man returned to themselves his male slave and each man his female slave whom you had let go as free according to their desire, and you subdued them to be your male slaves and female slaves.”’" 
Jeremiah34:17 “Therefore thus says Yahweh, ‘You have not obeyed Me in proclaiming release each man to his brother and each man to his neighbor. Behold, I am proclaiming a release to you,’ declares Yahweh, ‘to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine; and I will make you a terror to all the kingdoms of the earth." 
Jeremiah34:18 And I will give the men who have trespassed against My covenant, who have not established the words of the covenant which they cut before Me, when they cut the calf in two and passed between its parts—" 
Jeremiah34:19 the officials of Judah and the officials of Jerusalem, the court officers and the priests and all the people of the land who passed between the parts of the calf—" 
Jeremiah34:20 And I will give them into the hand of their enemies and into the hand of those who seek their life. And their dead bodies will be food for the birds of the sky and the beasts of the earth. 
Jeremiah34:21 And as for Zedekiah king of Judah and his officials, I will give them into the hand of their enemies and into the hand of those who seek their life and into the hand of the military force of the king of Babylon which has gone away from you." 
Jeremiah34:22 Behold, I am going to command,’ declares Yahweh, ‘and I will cause them to return to this city; and they will fight against it and capture it and burn it with fire; and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without inhabitant.’”" 
Jeremiah35:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, saying," 
Jeremiah35:2 “Go to the house of the Rechabites and speak to them and bring them into the house of Yahweh, into one of the chambers, and give them wine to drink.”" 
Jeremiah35:3 Then I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, son of Habazziniah, and his brothers and all his sons and the whole house of the Rechabites," 
Jeremiah35:4 and I brought them into the house of Yahweh, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan the son of Igdaliah, the man of God, which was beside the chamber of the officials, which was above the chamber of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, the doorkeeper." 
Jeremiah35:5 Then I put before the men of the house of the Rechabites pitchers full of wine and cups; and I said to them, “Drink wine!”" 
Jeremiah35:6 But they said, “We will not drink wine, for Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, commanded us, saying, ‘You shall not drink wine, you or your sons, forever." 
Jeremiah35:7 And you shall not build a house, and you shall not sow seed, and you shall not plant a vineyard or own one; but tents you shall inhabit all your days, that you may live many days in the land where you sojourn.’" 
Jeremiah35:8 So we have listened to the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, in all that he commanded us, not to drink wine all our days, we, our wives, our sons, or our daughters," 
Jeremiah35:9 nor to build ourselves houses to inhabit; and we do not have vineyard or field or seed. 
Jeremiah35:10 We have only inhabited tents and have listened and have done according to all that Jonadab our father commanded us. 
Jeremiah35:11 But it happened that when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against the land, we said, ‘Come, let us come to Jerusalem before the military force of the Chaldeans and before the military force of the Arameans.’ So we have inhabited Jerusalem.”" 
Jeremiah35:12 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah35:13 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘Go and say to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, “Will you not receive discipline by listening to My words?” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah35:14 “The words of Jonadab the son of Rechab, which he commanded his sons, not to drink wine, are established. So they do not drink wine to this day, for they have listened to their father’s command. But I have spoken to you, rising up early and speaking; yet you have not listened to Me." 
Jeremiah35:15 Also I have sent to you all My slaves the prophets, rising up early and sending, saying: ‘Turn now every man from his evil way and make good your deeds, and do not walk after other gods to serve them. Then you will inhabit the land which I have given to you and to your fathers; but you have not inclined your ear or listened to Me." 
Jeremiah35:16 Indeed, the sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab have established the command of their father which he commanded them, but this people has not listened to Me.’”’" 
Jeremiah35:17 Therefore thus says Yahweh, the God of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘Behold, I am bringing on Judah and on all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the harmful evil that I have spoken against them because I spoke to them but they did not listen, and I have called them but they did not answer.’”" 
Jeremiah35:18 Then Jeremiah said to the house of the Rechabites, “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘Because you have listened to the command of Jonadab your father, kept all his commands, and done according to all that he commanded you," 
Jeremiah35:19 therefore thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Jonadab the son of Rechab shall not have a man cut off from standing before Me always.”’”" 
Jeremiah36:1 Now it happened that in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying," 
Jeremiah36:2 “Take a scroll of a book and write on it all the words which I have spoken to you concerning Israel and concerning Judah and concerning all the nations, from the day I first spoke to you, from the days of Josiah, even to this day." 
Jeremiah36:3 Perhaps the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I devise to bring on them, in order that every man will turn from his evil way; then I will forgive their iniquity and their sin.”" 
Jeremiah36:4 Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah, and Baruch wrote on a scroll at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of Yahweh which He had spoken to him." 
Jeremiah36:5 And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, “I am confined; I cannot go into the house of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah36:6 So you shall go and read from the scroll, which you have written at my dictation, the words of Yahweh in the hearing of the people in the house of Yahweh on a fast day. And also you shall read them in the hearing of all the people of Judah who come from their cities." 
Jeremiah36:7 Perhaps their supplication will come before Yahweh, and everyone will turn from his evil way, for great is the anger and the wrath that Yahweh has spoken against this people.”" 
Jeremiah36:8 So Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading from the book the words of Yahweh in the house of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah36:9 Now it happened in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, that all the people in Jerusalem and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem called for a fast before Yahweh." 
Jeremiah36:10 Then Baruch read from the book the words of Jeremiah in the house of Yahweh in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan the scribe, in the upper court, at the entry of the New Gate of the house of Yahweh, in the hearing of all the people." 
Jeremiah36:11 Then Micaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, heard all the words of Yahweh from the book." 
Jeremiah36:12 And he went down to the king’s house, into the scribe’s chamber. And behold, all the officials were sitting there—Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the other officials." 
Jeremiah36:13 And Micaiah declared to them all the words that he had heard when Baruch read from the book in the hearing of the people. 
Jeremiah36:14 Then all the officials sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying, “Take in your hand the scroll from which you have read in the hearing of the people and come.” So Baruch the son of Neriah took the scroll in his hand and went to them." 
Jeremiah36:15 And they said to him, “Sit down, please, and read it in our hearing.” So Baruch read it in their hearing." 
Jeremiah36:16 Now it happened that when they heard all the words, they turned in dread one to another and said to Baruch, “We will surely declare all these words to the king.”" 
Jeremiah36:17 And they asked Baruch, saying, “Declare to us, please, how did you write all these words? Was it at his dictation?”" 
Jeremiah36:18 Then Baruch said to them, “He dictated all these words to me, and I wrote them with ink on the book.”" 
Jeremiah36:19 Then the officials said to Baruch, “Go, hide yourself, you and Jeremiah, and do not let anyone know where you are.”" 
Jeremiah36:20 So they went to the king in the court, but they had deposited the scroll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe, and they declared all the words in the hearing of the king." 
Jeremiah36:21 Then the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll, and he took it out of the chamber of Elishama the scribe. And Jehudi read it in the hearing of the king as well as in the hearing of all the officials who stood beside the king." 
Jeremiah36:22 Now the king was sitting in the winter house in the ninth month, with a fire burning in the brazier before him." 
Jeremiah36:23 And it happened that when Jehudi had read three or four columns, the king cut it with a scribe’s knife and threw it into the fire that was in the brazier, until all the scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the brazier." 
Jeremiah36:24 Yet the king and all his servants who heard all these words were not in dread, nor did they tear their garments." 
Jeremiah36:25 Even though Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah interceded with the king not to burn the scroll, he would not listen to them." 
Jeremiah36:26 And the king commanded Jerahmeel the king’s son, Seraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel to take Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet, but Yahweh hid them." 
Jeremiah36:27 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah after the king had burned the scroll and the words which Baruch had written at the dictation of Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah36:28 “Take again another scroll and write on it all the former words that were on the first scroll which Jehoiakim the king of Judah burned. 
Jeremiah36:29 And concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah you shall say, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “You have burned this scroll, saying, ‘Why have you written on it that the king of Babylon will certainly come and make this land a ruin and will make man and beast to cease from it?’”" 
Jeremiah36:30 Therefore thus says Yahweh concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah, “He shall have no one to sit on the throne of David, and his dead body shall be cast out to the heat of the day and the frost of the night." 
Jeremiah36:31 And I will also punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity, and I will bring on them and the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the men of Judah all the evil that I have spoken about to them—but they did not listen.”’”" 
Jeremiah36:32 Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch the son of Neriah, the scribe, and he wrote on it at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire; and many similar words were added to them." 
Jeremiah37:1 Now Zedekiah the son of Josiah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had made king in the land of Judah, reigned as king in place of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim." 
Jeremiah37:2 But neither he nor his servants nor the people of the land listened to the words of Yahweh which He spoke through Jeremiah the prophet. 
Jeremiah37:3 Yet King Zedekiah sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, to Jeremiah the prophet, saying, “Please pray to Yahweh our God on our behalf.”" 
Jeremiah37:3 Yet King Zedekiah sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, to Jeremiah the prophet, saying, “Please pray to Yahweh our God on our behalf.”" 
Jeremiah37:4 Now Jeremiah was still coming in and going out among the people; they had not yet put him in the prison. 
Jeremiah37:5 Meanwhile, Pharaoh’s military force had come out from Egypt; and the Chaldeans who had been besieging Jerusalem heard the report about them. So they withdrew from Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah37:6 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah the prophet, saying," 
Jeremiah37:7 “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, ‘Thus you are to say to the king of Judah, who sent you to Me to inquire of Me: “Behold, the military force of Pharaoh which has come out for your assistance is going to return to its own land of Egypt." 
Jeremiah37:8 The Chaldeans will also return and fight against this city, and they will capture it and burn it with fire.”’" 
Jeremiah37:9 Thus says Yahweh, ‘Do not deceive yourselves, saying, “The Chaldeans will surely go away from us,” for they will not go." 
Jeremiah37:10 For even if you had struck down the entire military force of the Chaldeans who were fighting against you, and there were only wounded men remaining among them, each man in his tent, they would rise up and burn this city with fire.’”" 
Jeremiah37:11 Now it happened when the military force of the Chaldeans had withdrawn from Jerusalem because of the military force of Pharaoh," 
Jeremiah37:12 that Jeremiah went out from Jerusalem to go to the land of Benjamin in order to obtain his portion of some property there among the people. 
Jeremiah37:13 Now it happened that while he was at the Gate of Benjamin, the master of the guard whose name was Irijah the son of Shelemiah the son of Hananiah was there; and he seized Jeremiah the prophet, saying, “You are going over to the Chaldeans!”" 
Jeremiah37:14 But Jeremiah said, “A lie! I am not going over to the Chaldeans”; yet he would not listen to him. So Irijah seized Jeremiah and brought him to the officials." 
Jeremiah37:15 Then the officials were angry at Jeremiah and struck him, and they put him in jail in the house of Jonathan the scribe because they had made that house into the prison." 
Jeremiah37:16 For Jeremiah had come into the pit, that is, the vaulted cell; and Jeremiah stayed there many days." 
Jeremiah37:17 Then King Zedekiah sent and took him out; and in his palace the king secretly asked him and said, “Is there a word from Yahweh?” And Jeremiah said, “There is!” Then he said, “You will be given into the hand of the king of Babylon!”" 
Jeremiah37:18 Moreover, Jeremiah said to King Zedekiah, “In what way have I sinned against you or against your servants or against this people, that you have put me in prison?" 
Jeremiah37:19 Where then are your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, ‘The king of Babylon will not come against you or against this land’?" 
Jeremiah37:20 But now, please listen, O my lord the king; please let my supplication come before you, and do not make me return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, that I may not die there.”" 
Jeremiah37:21 Then King Zedekiah gave commandment, and they committed Jeremiah to the court of the guard and gave him a loaf of bread daily from the bakers’ street, until all the bread in the city had come to an end. So Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard." 
Jeremiah38:1 And Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur the son of Malchijah heard the words that Jeremiah was speaking to all the people, saying," 
Jeremiah38:2 “Thus says Yahweh, ‘He who stays in this city will die by the sword and by the famine and by the pestilence, but he who goes out to the Chaldeans will live and have his own life as spoil and stay alive.’" 
Jeremiah38:3 Thus says Yahweh, ‘This city will certainly be given into the hand of the military force of the king of Babylon, and he will capture it.’”" 
Jeremiah38:4 Then the officials said to the king, “Now let this man be put to death, inasmuch as he is making the hands of the men of war who remain in this city as well as the hands of all the people limp, by speaking such words to them; for this man is not seeking peace for this people but rather calamity.”" 
Jeremiah38:5 So King Zedekiah said, “Behold, he is in your hands; for the king can do nothing against you.”" 
Jeremiah38:6 Then they took Jeremiah and cast him into the cistern of Malchijah the king’s son, which was in the court of the guard; and they let Jeremiah down with ropes. Now in the cistern there was no water but only mire, and Jeremiah sank into the mire." 
Jeremiah38:7 But Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, a eunuch, while he was in the king’s palace, heard that they had put Jeremiah into the cistern. Now the king was sitting in the Gate of Benjamin;" 
Jeremiah38:8 and Ebed-melech went out from the king’s house and spoke to the king, saying," 
Jeremiah38:9 “My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done to Jeremiah the prophet whom they have cast into the cistern; and he will die right where he is because of the famine, for there is no more bread in the city.”" 
Jeremiah38:10 Then the king commanded Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, saying, “Take in your hand thirty men from here and bring up Jeremiah the prophet from the cistern before he dies.”" 
Jeremiah38:11 So Ebed-melech took the men in his hand and went into the king’s palace to a place beneath the storeroom and took from there worn-out clothes and worn-out rags and let them down by ropes into the cistern to Jeremiah. 
Jeremiah38:12 Then Ebed-melech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, “Now put these worn-out clothes and rags under your armpits under the ropes”; and Jeremiah did so." 
Jeremiah38:13 So they pulled Jeremiah up with the ropes and brought him up from the cistern, and Jeremiah stayed in the court of the guard." 
Jeremiah38:14 Then King Zedekiah sent and had Jeremiah the prophet brought to him at the third entrance that is in the house of Yahweh; and the king said to Jeremiah, “I am going to ask you something; do not hide anything from me.”" 
Jeremiah38:15 Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, “If I tell you, will you not certainly put me to death? Besides, if I give you counsel, you will not listen to me.”" 
Jeremiah38:16 But King Zedekiah swore to Jeremiah in secret saying, “As Yahweh lives, who made this life for us, surely I will not put you to death, nor will I give you over to the hand of these men who are seeking your life.”" 
Jeremiah38:17 Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, “Thus says Yahweh God of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘If you will indeed go out to the officers of the king of Babylon, then you will live, this city will not be burned with fire, and you and your household will live." 
Jeremiah38:18 But if you will not go out to the officers of the king of Babylon, then this city will be given over to the hand of the Chaldeans; and they will burn it with fire, and you yourself will not escape from their hand.’”" 
Jeremiah38:19 Then King Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, “I am anxious because of the Jews who have gone over to the Chaldeans, lest they give me over into their hand and they deal severely with me.”" 
Jeremiah38:20 But Jeremiah said, “They will not give you over. Please listen to the voice of Yahweh in what I am saying to you, that it may go well with you and you may live." 
Jeremiah38:21 But if you keep refusing to go out, this is the word which Yahweh has shown me:" 
Jeremiah38:22 ‘And behold, all of the women who have remained in the house of the king of Judah are going to be brought out to the officers of the king of Babylon; and behold, those women will say, “Your close friends Have misled and overpowered you; While your feet were sunk in the mud, They turned back.”" 
Jeremiah38:23 And they will also bring out all your wives and your sons to the Chaldeans, and you yourself will not escape from their hand, but will be seized by the hand of the king of Babylon, and this city will be burned with fire.’”" 
Jeremiah38:24 Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, “Let no man know about these words and you will not die." 
Jeremiah38:25 But if the officials hear that I have talked with you and come to you and say to you, ‘Tell us now what you said to the king and what the king said to you; do not hide it from us, and we will not put you to death,’" 
Jeremiah38:26 then you are to say to them, ‘I was presenting my petition before the king, not to make me return to the house of Jonathan to die there.’”" 
Jeremiah38:27 Then all the officials came to Jeremiah and questioned him. So he told them in accordance with all these words which the king had commanded; and they ceased speaking with him since the conversation had not been overheard. 
Jeremiah38:28 So Jeremiah stayed in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was captured. 
Jeremiah39:1 Now when Jerusalem was captured in the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his military force came to Jerusalem and laid siege to it;" 
Jeremiah39:2 in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, in the ninth day of the month, the city was breached." 
Jeremiah39:3 Then all the officials of the king of Babylon came in and sat down at the Middle Gate: Nergal-sar-ezer, Samgar-nebu, Sar-sekim the Rab-saris, Nergal-sar-ezer the Rab-mag, and all the rest of the officials of the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah39:4 Now it happened that when Zedekiah the king of Judah and all the men of war saw them, they fled and went out of the city at night by way of the king’s garden through the gate between the two walls; and he went out toward the Arabah." 
Jeremiah39:5 But the military force of the Chaldeans pursued them and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho; and they took him and brought him up to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, and he spoke judgment on him." 
Jeremiah39:6 Then the king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes at Riblah; the king of Babylon also slaughtered all the nobles of Judah. 
Jeremiah39:7 He then blinded Zedekiah’s eyes and bound him in fetters of bronze to bring him to Babylon. 
Jeremiah39:8 The Chaldeans also burned with fire the house of the king and the houses of the people, and they tore down the walls of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah39:9 And as for the rest of the people who remained in the city, the defectors who had gone over to him and the rest of the people who remained, Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard took them away into exile in Babylon." 
Jeremiah39:10 But some of the poorest people who had nothing, Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard had them remain in the land of Judah and gave them vineyards and fields at that time." 
Jeremiah39:11 Now Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon gave a command about Jeremiah through Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard, saying," 
Jeremiah39:12 “Take him and set your eyes to look after him and do nothing harmful to him, but rather deal with him just as he speaks to you.”" 
Jeremiah39:13 So Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard sent word, along with Nebushazban the Rab-saris and Nergal-sar-ezer the Rab-mag and all the leading officers of the king of Babylon;" 
Jeremiah39:14 they even sent and took Jeremiah out of the court of the guard and gave him over to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, to take him home. So he stayed among the people." 
Jeremiah39:15 Now the word of Yahweh had come to Jeremiah while he was confined in the court of the guard, saying," 
Jeremiah39:16 “Go and speak to Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Behold, I am about to bring My words on this city for calamity and not for prosperity; and they will take place before you on that day." 
Jeremiah39:17 But I will deliver you on that day,” declares Yahweh, “and you will not be given into the hand of the men of whom you are terrified." 
Jeremiah39:18 For I will certainly provide you escape, and you will not fall by the sword; but you will have your own life as spoil because you have trusted in Me,” declares Yahweh.’”" 
Jeremiah40:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh after Nebuzaradan captain of the bodyguard had released him from Ramah, when he had taken him bound in chains among all the exiles of Jerusalem and Judah who were being exiled to Babylon." 
Jeremiah40:2 And the captain of the bodyguard had taken Jeremiah and said to him, “Yahweh your God promised this calamity against this place;" 
Jeremiah40:3 and Yahweh has brought it on and done just as He promised. Because you people sinned against Yahweh and did not listen to His voice, therefore this thing has happened to you." 
Jeremiah40:4 So now, behold, I am freeing you today from the chains which are on your hands. If it is good in your eyes to come with me to Babylon, come along, and I will set my eyes to look after you; but if it is displeasing in your eyes to come with me to Babylon, never mind. Look, the whole land is before you; go wherever it seems good and right in your eyes to go.”" 
Jeremiah40:5 But as Jeremiah had not yet set out to return, he said, “Return then to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon has appointed over the cities of Judah, and stay with him among the people; or else go anywhere that is right in your eyes to go.” So the captain of the bodyguard gave him a ration and a gift and let him go." 
Jeremiah40:6 Then Jeremiah went to Mizpah to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam and stayed with him among the people who remained in the land. 
Jeremiah40:7 Then all the commanders of the military forces that were in the field, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam over the land and that he had appointed him over the men, women, little ones, and those of the poorest of the land who had not been exiled to Babylon." 
Jeremiah40:8 So they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah, along with Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah the son of the Maacathite, both they and their men." 
Jeremiah40:9 Then Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, swore to them and to their men, saying, “Do not be afraid of serving the Chaldeans; stay in the land and serve the king of Babylon, that it may go well with you." 
Jeremiah40:10 Now as for me, behold, I am going to stay at Mizpah to stand for you before the Chaldeans who come to us; but as for you, gather in wine and summer fruit and oil and put them in your storage vessels and stay in your cities that you have seized.”" 
Jeremiah40:11 And also all the Jews, who were in Moab and among the sons of Ammon and in Edom and who were in all the other lands, heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant for Judah and that he had appointed over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan." 
Jeremiah40:12 Then all the Jews returned from all the places to which they had been banished and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah at Mizpah, and gathered in wine and summer fruit in great abundance." 
Jeremiah40:13 Now Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the military forces that were in the field came to Gedaliah at Mizpah 
Jeremiah40:14 and said to him, “Do you indeed know that Baalis the king of the sons of Ammon has sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to strike down your life?” But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam did not believe them." 
Jeremiah40:15 Then Johanan the son of Kareah spoke secretly to Gedaliah in Mizpah, saying, “Let me go and strike down Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and not a man will know! Why should he strike down your life, so that all the Jews who are gathered to you would be scattered and the remnant of Judah would perish?”" 
Jeremiah40:16 But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said to Johanan the son of Kareah, “Do not do this thing, for you are telling a lie about Ishmael.”" 
Jeremiah41:1 Now it happened in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal seed and one of the chief officers of the king, along with ten men, came to Mizpah to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam. And they were eating bread together there in Mizpah." 
Jeremiah41:2 Then Ishmael the son of Nethaniah and the ten men who were with him arose and struck down Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, with the sword and put to death the one whom the king of Babylon had appointed over the land." 
Jeremiah41:3 Ishmael also struck down all the Jews who were with him, that is with Gedaliah at Mizpah, as well as the Chaldeans who were found there, the men of war." 
Jeremiah41:4 Now it happened on the next day after putting Gedaliah to death, when no one knew about it," 
Jeremiah41:5 that eighty men came from Shechem, from Shiloh, and from Samaria with their beards shaved off and their clothes torn and their bodies gashed, having grain offerings and frankincense in their hands to bring to the house of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah41:6 Then Ishmael the son of Nethaniah went out from Mizpah to meet them, weeping as he went; and it happened that as he encountered them, he said to them, “Come to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam!”" 
Jeremiah41:7 But it happened that as soon as they came inside the city, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah and the men that were with him slaughtered them and cast them into the cistern." 
Jeremiah41:8 But ten men who were found among them said to Ishmael, “Do not put us to death; for we have stores of wheat, barley, oil, and honey hidden in the field.” So he refrained and did not put them to death along with their companions." 
Jeremiah41:9 Now as for the cistern where Ishmael had cast all the corpses of the men whom he had struck down because of Gedaliah, it was the one that King Asa had made on account of Baasha, king of Israel; Ishmael the son of Nethaniah filled it with the slain." 
Jeremiah41:10 Then Ishmael took captive all the remnant of the people who were in Mizpah, the king’s daughters and all the people who remained in Mizpah, over whom Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard had appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam; thus Ishmael the son of Nethaniah took them captive and went to cross over to the sons of Ammon." 
Jeremiah41:11 But Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the military forces that were with him heard of all the evil that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had done. 
Jeremiah41:12 So they took all the men and went to fight with Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and they found him by the great pool that is in Gibeon." 
Jeremiah41:13 Now it happened as soon as all the people who were with Ishmael saw Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the military forces that were with him, they were glad." 
Jeremiah41:14 So all the people whom Ishmael had taken captive from Mizpah turned around and returned and went to Johanan the son of Kareah. 
Jeremiah41:15 But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eight men and went to the sons of Ammon. 
Jeremiah41:16 Then Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the military forces that were with him took from Mizpah all the remnant of the people whom he had returned from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, after he had struck down Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, that is, the mighty men who were men of war, the women, the little ones, and the eunuchs, whom he had returned from Gibeon." 
Jeremiah41:17 And they went and stayed in Geruth Chimham, which is beside Bethlehem, in order to proceed into Egypt" 
Jeremiah41:18 because of the Chaldeans; for they were afraid of them, since Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had struck down Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon had appointed over the land." 
Jeremiah42:1 Then all the commanders of the military forces, Johanan the son of Kareah, Jezaniah the son of Hoshaiah, and all the people both small and great approached" 
Jeremiah42:2 and said to Jeremiah the prophet, “Please let our supplication come before you, and pray for us to Yahweh your God, that is for all this remnant, because we remain but a few out of many, as your own eyes now see us," 
Jeremiah42:3 that Yahweh your God may tell us the way in which we should walk and the thing that we should do.” 
Jeremiah42:4 Then Jeremiah the prophet said to them, “I have heard you. Behold, I am going to pray to Yahweh your God in accordance with your words; and I will tell you the whole message which Yahweh will answer you. I will not keep back a word from you.”" 
Jeremiah42:5 And they said to Jeremiah, “May Yahweh be a true and faithful witness against us if we do not act in accordance with the whole message with which Yahweh your God will send you to us." 
Jeremiah42:6 Whether it is good or bad, we will listen to the voice of Yahweh our God to whom we are sending you, so that good may come to us when we listen to the voice of Yahweh our God.”" 
Jeremiah42:7 Now it happened that at the end of ten days the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah. 
Jeremiah42:8 Then he called for Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the military forces that were with him, and for all the people both small and great," 
Jeremiah42:9 and said to them, “Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your supplication before Him:" 
Jeremiah42:10 ‘If you will indeed stay in this land, then I will build you up and not pull you down, and I will plant you and not uproot you; for I have relented of the calamity that I have done against you." 
Jeremiah42:11 Do not be afraid of the king of Babylon, whom you are now fearing; do not be afraid of him,’ declares Yahweh, ‘for I am with you to save you and deliver you from his hand." 
Jeremiah42:12 I will also show you compassion, so that he will have compassion on you and return you to your own soil." 
Jeremiah42:13 But if you are going to say, “We will not stay in this land,” so as not to listen to the voice of Yahweh your God," 
Jeremiah42:14 saying, “No, but we will go to the land of Egypt, where we will not see war or hear the sound of a trumpet or hunger for bread, and we will stay there,”" 
Jeremiah42:15 then now, listen to the word of Yahweh, O remnant of Judah. Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “If you really set your face to enter Egypt, and you will enter to sojourn there," 
Jeremiah42:16 then the sword, which you are afraid of, will overtake you there in the land of Egypt; and the famine, about which you are anxious, will follow closely after you there in Egypt, and you will die there." 
Jeremiah42:17 So all the men who set their face to go to Egypt to sojourn there will die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence; and they will have no survivors or any who escaped from the calamity that I am going to bring on them.”’”" 
Jeremiah42:18 For thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “As My anger and wrath have been poured out on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so My wrath will be poured out on you when you enter Egypt. And you will become a curse, an object of horror, an imprecation, and a reproach; and you will see this place no more.”" 
Jeremiah42:19 Yahweh has spoken to you, O remnant of Judah, “Do not go into Egypt!” You should clearly know that today I have testified against you." 
Jeremiah42:20 For you have only led yourselves astray; for it is you who sent me to Yahweh your God, saying, “Pray for us to Yahweh our God; and according to all that Yahweh our God says, tell us so, and we will do it.”" 
Jeremiah42:21 So I have told you today, but you have not listened to the voice of Yahweh your God, even according to all that He has sent me to tell you." 
Jeremiah42:22 So now, you should clearly know that you will die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, in the place where you desire to go to sojourn." 
Jeremiah43:1 But it happened that as soon as Jeremiah, whom Yahweh their God had sent, had finished speaking to all the people all the words of Yahweh their God—that is, all these words—" 
Jeremiah43:2 Azariah the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the arrogant men said to Jeremiah, “You are speaking a lie! Yahweh our God has not sent you to say, ‘You are not to enter Egypt to sojourn there’;" 
Jeremiah43:3 but Baruch the son of Neriah is inciting you against us to give us over into the hand of the Chaldeans, so they will put us to death or exile us to Babylon.”" 
Jeremiah43:4 So Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the military forces and all the people did not listen to the voice of Yahweh to stay in the land of Judah. 
Jeremiah43:5 But Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the military forces took the entire remnant of Judah, who had returned from all the nations to which they had been banished, in order to sojourn in the land of Judah—" 
Jeremiah43:6 the men, the women, the little ones, the king’s daughters, and every person that Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, together with Jeremiah the prophet and Baruch the son of Neriah—" 
Jeremiah43:7 and they entered the land of Egypt (for they did not listen to the voice of Yahweh) and went in as far as Tahpanhes. 
Jeremiah43:8 Then the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying," 
Jeremiah43:9 “Take some large stones in your hands and hide them in the mortar in the brick terrace which is at the entrance of Pharaoh’s house in Tahpanhes, in the sight of some of the Jews;" 
Jeremiah43:10 and you will say to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Behold, I am going to send and get Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, My servant, and I am going to set his throne right over these stones that I have hidden; and he will spread his canopy over them." 
Jeremiah43:11 He will also come and strike the land of Egypt; those who are meant for death will be given over to death, and those for captivity to captivity, and those for the sword to the sword." 
Jeremiah43:12 And I shall set fire to the houses of the gods of Egypt, and he will burn them and take them captive. So he will wrap himself with the land of Egypt as a shepherd wraps himself with his garment, and he will depart from there safely." 
Jeremiah43:13 He will also shatter the sacred pillars of Heliopolis, which is in the land of Egypt; and the houses of the gods of Egypt he will burn with fire.”’”" 
Jeremiah44:1 The word that came to Jeremiah for all the Jews living in the land of Egypt, those who were living in Migdol, Tahpanhes, Memphis, and the land of Pathros, saying," 
Jeremiah44:2 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘You yourselves have seen all the evil that I have brought on Jerusalem and all the cities of Judah; and behold, this day they are a waste place and no one lives in them" 
Jeremiah44:3 because of their evil which they did so as to provoke Me to anger by continuing to burn incense and to serve other gods whom they had not known, neither they, you, nor your fathers." 
Jeremiah44:4 Yet I sent you all My slaves the prophets, rising up early and sending, saying, “Oh, do not do this abominable thing which I hate.”" 
Jeremiah44:5 But they did not listen or incline their ears to turn from their evil, so as not to burn incense to other gods." 
Jeremiah44:6 Therefore My wrath and My anger were poured out and burned in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, so they have become a waste place and a desolation as it is this day." 
Jeremiah44:7 So now, thus says Yahweh, the God of hosts, the God of Israel, “Why are you doing great evil against yourselves, so as to cut off from you man and woman, infant and nursing baby, from among Judah, leaving yourselves without remnant," 
Jeremiah44:8 provoking Me to anger with the works of your hands, burning incense to other gods in the land of Egypt, where you are entering to sojourn, so that you might be cut off and become an imprecation and a reproach among all the nations of the earth?" 
Jeremiah44:9 Have you forgotten the evil of your fathers, the evil of the kings of Judah, and the evil of their wives, your own evil, and the evil of your wives, which they did in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?" 
Jeremiah44:10 But they have not become contrite even to this day, nor have they feared nor walked in My law or My statutes, which I have put before you and before your fathers.”’" 
Jeremiah44:11 “Therefore thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘Behold, I am going to set My face against you for your evil demise, even to cut off all Judah." 
Jeremiah44:12 And I will take away the remnant of Judah who have set their face on entering the land of Egypt to sojourn there, and they will all meet their end in the land of Egypt; they will fall by the sword and meet their end by famine. Both small and great will die by the sword and famine; and they will become a curse, an object of horror, an imprecation, and a reproach." 
Jeremiah44:13 And I will punish those who live in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence." 
Jeremiah44:14 So there will be no one who escapes or any survivors for the remnant of Judah who have entered the land of Egypt to sojourn there and then to return to the land of Judah, to which they are longing to return to live; for none will return except a few who escape.’”" 
Jeremiah44:15 Then all the men who knew that their wives were burning incense to other gods, along with all the women who were standing by, as a large assembly, including all the people who were living in Pathros in the land of Egypt, answered to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah44:16 “As for the message that you have spoken to us in the name of Yahweh, we are not going to listen to you!" 
Jeremiah44:17 But rather we will certainly carry out every word that has proceeded from our mouths, by burning incense to the queen of heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, just as we ourselves, our fathers, our kings, and our princes did in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; for then we had plenty of food and were well off and saw no evil." 
Jeremiah44:18 But since we stopped burning incense to the queen of heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have lacked everything and have met our end by the sword and by famine.”" 
Jeremiah44:19 “And,” said the women, “when we were burning incense to the queen of heaven and were pouring out drink offerings to her, was it without our husbands that we made for her sacrificial cakes in her image and poured out drink offerings to her?”" 
Jeremiah44:20 Then Jeremiah said to all the people, to the men and women—even to all the people who were answering him with such a word—saying," 
Jeremiah44:21 “As for the smoking sacrifices that you offered in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, you and your fathers, your kings and your princes, and the people of the land, did not Yahweh remember them and did not all this come upon His heart?" 
Jeremiah44:22 So Yahweh was no longer able to bear it, because of the evil of your deeds, because of the abominations which you have done; thus your land has become a waste place, an object of horror, and an imprecation, without an inhabitant, as it is this day." 
Jeremiah44:23 Because you have burned incense and have sinned against Yahweh and not listened to the voice of Yahweh or walked in His law, His statutes, or His testimonies, therefore this evil has befallen you, as it has this day.”" 
Jeremiah44:24 Then Jeremiah said to all the people, including all the women, “Hear the word of Yahweh, all Judah who are in the land of Egypt," 
Jeremiah44:25 thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, saying: ‘As for you and your wives, you have spoken with your mouths and fulfilled it with your hands, saying, “We will certainly perform our vows that we have vowed, to burn incense to the queen of heaven and pour out drink offerings to her.” Go ahead and establish your vows, and certainly perform your vows!’" 
Jeremiah44:26 Nevertheless, hear the word of Yahweh, all Judah who are living in the land of Egypt, ‘Behold, I have sworn by My great name,’ says Yahweh, ‘never shall My name be called upon again by the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, “As Lord Yahweh lives.”" 
Jeremiah44:27 Behold, I am watching over them for evil and not for good, and all the men of Judah who are in the land of Egypt will meet their end by the sword and by famine until they are completely consumed." 
Jeremiah44:28 Those who escape the sword will return out of the land of Egypt to the land of Judah few in number. Then all the remnant of Judah who have gone to the land of Egypt to sojourn there will know whose word will be established, Mine or theirs." 
Jeremiah44:29 This will be the sign to you,’ declares Yahweh, ‘that I am going to punish you in this place, so that you may know that My words will surely be established against you for evil.’" 
Jeremiah44:30 Thus says Yahweh, ‘Behold, I am going to give over Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt to the hand of his enemies, to the hand of those who seek his life, just as I gave over Zedekiah king of Judah to the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, who was his enemy and was seeking his life.’”" 
Jeremiah45:1 This is the message which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to Baruch the son of Neriah, when he had written down these words in a book at Jeremiah’s dictation, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, saying:" 
Jeremiah45:2 “Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel to you, O Baruch:" 
Jeremiah45:3 ‘You said, “Ah, woe is me! For Yahweh has added sorrow to my pain; I am weary with my sighing and have found no rest.”’" 
Jeremiah45:4 Thus you are to say to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Behold, what I have built I am about to pull down, and what I have planted I am about to uproot, that is, the whole land.”" 
Jeremiah45:5 But as for you, are you seeking great things for yourself? Do not seek them; for behold, I am going to bring calamity on all flesh,’ declares Yahweh, ‘but I will give your life to you as spoil in all the places where you may go.’”" 
Jeremiah46:1 That which came as the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the nations. 
Jeremiah46:2 To Egypt, concerning the military force of Pharaoh Neco king of Egypt, which was by the Euphrates River at Carchemish, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon struck down in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah:" 
Jeremiah46:3 “Arrange the shield and large shield, And draw near for the battle!" 
Jeremiah46:4 Harness the horses, And mount the steeds, And take your stand with helmets on! Polish the spears, Put on the scale‑armor!" 
Jeremiah46:5 Why have I seen it? They are shattered; They are drawing back, And their mighty men are crushed And have fled to refuge, Without facing back; Terror is on every side!” Declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah46:6 Let not the swift man flee, Nor the mighty man escape; In the north beside the river Euphrates They have stumbled and fallen." 
Jeremiah46:7 Who is this that rises like the Nile, Like the rivers whose waters toss about?" 
Jeremiah46:8 Egypt rises like the Nile, Even like the rivers whose waters toss about; And He has said, “I will rise and cover that land; I will surely cause the city to perish, as well as its inhabitants.”" 
Jeremiah46:9 Go up, you horses, and drive madly, you chariots, That the mighty men may go forth: Ethiopia and Put, who seize the shield, And the Lydians, who seize and bend the bow." 
Jeremiah46:10 Indeed, that day belongs to Lord Yahweh of hosts, A day of vengeance, so as to avenge Himself on His adversaries; And the sword will devour and be satiated And drink its fill of their blood; For there will be a sacrifice to Lord Yahweh of hosts In the land of the north by the river Euphrates." 
Jeremiah46:11 Go up to Gilead and obtain balm, O virgin daughter of Egypt! In vain have you multiplied remedies; There is no healing for you." 
Jeremiah46:12 The nations have heard of your disgrace, And the earth is full of your outcry; For one warrior has stumbled over another, And both of them have fallen down together." 
Jeremiah46:13 This is the message which Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah the prophet about the coming of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to strike down the land of Egypt: 
Jeremiah46:14 “Declare in Egypt and cause it to be heard in Migdol; Cause it to be heard also in Memphis and Tahpanhes; Say, ‘Take your stand and get yourself ready, For the sword has devoured those around you.’" 
Jeremiah46:15 Why are your mighty ones thrown down? They do not stand because Yahweh has thrust them down. 
Jeremiah46:16 They have repeatedly stumbled; Indeed, they have fallen one against another. Then they said, ‘Rise up! And let us return To our own people and land of our birth Away from the sword of the oppressor.’" 
Jeremiah46:17 They called out there, ‘Pharaoh king of Egypt is but a rumbling; He has let the appointed time pass by!’" 
Jeremiah46:18 As I live,” declares the King Whose name is Yahweh of hosts, “Surely one shall come who looms up like Tabor among the mountains, Or like Carmel by the sea." 
Jeremiah46:19 Make your baggage ready for exile, O inhabitant of the daughter of Egypt, For Memphis will become a desolation; It will even be turned into ruin and without inhabitants." 
Jeremiah46:20 Egypt is a pretty heifer, But a horsefly is coming from the north—it is coming!" 
Jeremiah46:21 Also her mercenaries in her midst Are like fattened calves, For even they have turned back and have fled away together; They did not stand their ground. For the day of their disaster has come upon them, The time of their punishment." 
Jeremiah46:22 Its sound moves along like a serpent; For they move on like a military force And come to her as woodcutters with axes. 
Jeremiah46:23 They have cut down her forest,” declares Yahweh; “Surely it will no longer be searched out, Even though they are now more numerous than locusts And are without number." 
Jeremiah46:24 The daughter of Egypt has been put to shame, Given over to the hand of the people of the north.”" 
Jeremiah46:25 Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, says, “Behold, I am going to punish Amon of Thebes, and Pharaoh, and Egypt along with her gods and her kings, even Pharaoh and those who trust in him." 
Jeremiah46:26 I shall give them into the hand of those who are seeking their lives, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and into the hand of his servants. Afterwards, however, it will be dwelt in like in the days of old,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah46:27 “But as for you, O Jacob My servant, do not fear, Nor be dismayed, O Israel! For behold, I am going to save you from afar, And your seed from the land of their captivity; And Jacob will return and have quiet And be at ease, with no one making him tremble." 
Jeremiah46:28 O Jacob My servant, do not fear,” declares Yahweh, “For I am with you. For I will make a complete destruction of all the nations Where I have banished you, Yet I will not make a complete destruction of you; But I will discipline you with justice And by no means leave you unpunished.”" 
Jeremiah47:1 That which came as the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the Philistines, before Pharaoh struck down Gaza." 
Jeremiah47:2 Thus says Yahweh: “Behold, waters are going to rise from the north And become an overflowing torrent, And overflow the land as well as its fullness, The city and those who inhabit it; And the men will cry out, And every inhabitant of the land will wail." 
Jeremiah47:3 Because of the noise of the galloping hoofs of his valiant steeds, The quaking of his chariots, and the tumult of his wheels, The fathers have not turned back for their children, Because of the limpness of their hands," 
Jeremiah47:4 On account of the day that is coming To destroy all the Philistines, To cut off from Tyre and Sidon Every ally that is left; For Yahweh is going to destroy the Philistines, The remnant of the coastland of Caphtor." 
Jeremiah47:5 Baldness has come upon Gaza; Ashkelon has been ruined. O remnant of their valley, How long will you gash yourself?" 
Jeremiah47:6 Ah, sword of Yahweh, How long will you not be quiet? Withdraw into your sheath; Be at rest and stay still." 
Jeremiah47:7 How can it be quiet? Yahweh has given it a command; Against Ashkelon and against the seacoast— There He has assigned it.” 
Jeremiah48:1 Concerning Moab. Thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, “Woe to Nebo, for it has been destroyed; Kiriathaim has been put to shame, it has been captured; The lofty stronghold has been put to shame and shattered." 
Jeremiah48:2 There is praise for Moab no longer; In Heshbon they have devised calamity against her: ‘Come and let us cut her off from being a nation!’ You too, Madmen, will be silenced; The sword will follow after you." 
Jeremiah48:3 The sound of an outcry from Horonaim, ‘Devastation and great destruction!’" 
Jeremiah48:4 Moab is broken; Her little ones have made their cry of distress heard. 
Jeremiah48:5 For by the ascent of Luhith They will ascend with continual weeping; For at the descent of Horonaim They have heard the distressed cry of destruction. 
Jeremiah48:6 Flee, escape with your lives, That you may be like a juniper in the wilderness." 
Jeremiah48:7 For because of your trust in your own works and treasures, Even you yourself will be captured; And Chemosh will go off into exile Together with his priests and his princes." 
Jeremiah48:8 A destroyer will come to every city, So that no city will escape; The valley also will perish, And the plateau will be destroyed, As Yahweh has said." 
Jeremiah48:9 Give wings to Moab, For she will flee away; And her cities will become a desolation, Without inhabitants in them." 
Jeremiah48:10 Cursed be the one who does the work of Yahweh with a slack hand, And cursed be the one who restrains his sword from blood." 
Jeremiah48:11 “Moab has been at ease since his youth; He has also had quiet, like wine on its dregs, And he has not been emptied from vessel to vessel, Nor has he gone into exile. Therefore he retains his flavor, And his aroma has not changed." 
Jeremiah48:12 Therefore behold, the days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “when I will send to him those who tip vessels, and they will tip him over, and they will empty his vessels and shatter his jars." 
Jeremiah48:13 And Moab will be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel, their trust." 
Jeremiah48:14 How can you say, ‘We are mighty warriors, And men valiant for battle’?" 
Jeremiah48:15 Moab has been destroyed, and men have gone up to his cities; His choicest young men have also gone down to the slaughter,” Declares the King, whose name is Yahweh of hosts." 
Jeremiah48:16 “The disaster of Moab will soon come, And his calamity has quickly hastened." 
Jeremiah48:17 Mourn for him, all you who live around him, Even all of you who know his name; Say, ‘How has the strong scepter been broken, A staff of beauty!’" 
Jeremiah48:18 Come down from your glory And inhabit the parched ground, O inhabitant of the daughter of Dibon; For the destroyer of Moab has come up against you, He has ruined your strongholds." 
Jeremiah48:19 Stand by the road and keep watch, O inhabitant of Aroer; Ask him who flees and her who escapes And say, ‘What has happened?’" 
Jeremiah48:20 Moab has been put to shame, for it has been shattered. Wail and cry out; Declare by the Arnon That Moab has been destroyed." 
Jeremiah48:21 “Judgment has also come upon the plain, upon Holon, upon Jahzah, and against Mephaath," 
Jeremiah48:22 and against Dibon, Nebo, and Beth-diblathaim," 
Jeremiah48:23 and against Kiriathaim, Beth-gamul, and Beth-meon," 
Jeremiah48:24 and against Kerioth, Bozrah, and all the cities of the land of Moab, far and near." 
Jeremiah48:25 The horn of Moab has been cut in pieces and his arm broken,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah48:26 “Make him drunk, for he has magnified himself against Yahweh; so Moab will wallow in his vomit, and he also will become a laughingstock." 
Jeremiah48:27 Now was not Israel a laughingstock to you? Or was he caught among thieves? For each time you speak about him you shake your head in scorn. 
Jeremiah48:28 Leave the cities and dwell among the crags, O inhabitants of Moab, And be like a dove that nests Beyond the mouth of the chasm." 
Jeremiah48:29 We have heard of the pride of Moab—he is very proud— Of his haughtiness, his pride, his arrogance, and the exaltedness of his heart." 
Jeremiah48:30 I know his fury,” declares Yahweh, “But it is nothing; His idle boasts have accomplished nothing." 
Jeremiah48:31 Therefore I will wail for Moab, Even for all Moab will I cry out; I will moan for the men of Kir‑heres." 
Jeremiah48:32 More than the weeping for Jazer I will weep for you, O vine of Sibmah! Your branches stretched across the sea, They reached to the sea of Jazer; Upon your summer fruits and your grape harvest The destroyer has fallen." 
Jeremiah48:33 So gladness and joy are gathered up From the fruitful orchard, even from the land of Moab. And I have made the wine to cease from the wine presses; No one will tread them with shouting, The shouting will not be shouts of joy." 
Jeremiah48:34 From the outcry at Heshbon even to Elealeh, even to Jahaz they have given forth their voice, from Zoar even to Horonaim and to Eglath-shelishiyah; for even the waters of Nimrim will become desolate." 
Jeremiah48:35 I will make Moab cease,” declares Yahweh, “the one who offers offerings on the high place and the one who offers offerings in smoke to his gods." 
Jeremiah48:36 “Therefore My heart moans for Moab like flutes; My heart also moans like flutes for the men of Kir-heres. Therefore they have lost the abundance it produced. 
Jeremiah48:37 For every head is bald and every beard cut short; there are gashes on all the hands and sackcloth on the loins. 
Jeremiah48:38 On all the rooftops of Moab and in its open squares there is lamentation everywhere; for I have broken Moab like an undesirable vessel,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah48:39 “How shattered it is! How they have wailed! How Moab has turned his back—he is ashamed! So Moab will become a laughingstock and an object of terror to all around him.” 
Jeremiah48:40 For thus says Yahweh: “Behold, one will swoop like an eagle And spread out his wings against Moab." 
Jeremiah48:41 Kerioth has been captured, And the strongholds have been seized, So the hearts of the mighty men of Moab in that day Will be like the heart of a woman in labor." 
Jeremiah48:42 Moab will be destroyed from being a people Because he has magnified himself against Yahweh. 
Jeremiah48:43 Panic and pit and pitfall are coming upon you, O inhabitant of Moab,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah48:44 “The one who flees from the panic Will fall into the pit, And the one who climbs up out of the pit Will be caught in the pitfall; For I shall bring upon her, even upon Moab, The year of their punishment,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah48:45 “In the shadow of Heshbon Those who flee stand without strength; For a fire has gone forth from Heshbon And a flame from the midst of Sihon, And it has devoured the top of the head of Moab And the scalps of those who rumble." 
Jeremiah48:46 Woe to you, Moab! The people of Chemosh have perished; For your sons have been taken away captive And your daughters into captivity." 
Jeremiah48:47 Yet I will return the fortunes of Moab In the last days,” declares Yahweh. Thus far the judgment on Moab." 
Jeremiah49:1 Concerning the sons of Ammon. Thus says Yahweh: “Does Israel have no sons? Or has he no one who can take possession? Why then has Malcam taken possession of Gad And his people settled in its cities? 
Jeremiah49:2 Therefore behold, the days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “That I will cause a trumpet blast of war to be heard Against Rabbah of the sons of Ammon; And it will become a desolate heap, And her towns will be set on fire. Then Israel will take possession of his possessors,” Says Yahweh." 
Jeremiah49:3 “Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai has been destroyed! Cry out, O daughters of Rabbah, Gird yourselves with sackcloth and lament, And rush back and forth inside the walls; For Malcam will go into exile Together with his priests and his princes." 
Jeremiah49:4 How boastful you are about the valleys! Your valley is flowing away, O faithless daughter Who trusts in her treasures, saying, ‘Who will come against me?’" 
Jeremiah49:5 Behold, I am going to bring dread upon you,” Declares Lord Yahweh of hosts, “From all around you; And each of you will be banished headlong, With no one to gather the one who flees." 
Jeremiah49:6 But afterward I will return The fortunes of the sons of Ammon,” Declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah49:7 Concerning Edom. Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Is there no longer any wisdom in Teman? Has counsel been lost to the understanding? Has their wisdom decayed?" 
Jeremiah49:8 Flee away, turn back, inhabit the depths, O inhabitants of Dedan, For I will bring the disaster of Esau upon him At the time I punish him." 
Jeremiah49:9 If grape gatherers came to you, Would they not have gleanings remain? If thieves came by night, They would ruin only until they had enough." 
Jeremiah49:10 But I have stripped Esau bare; I have uncovered his hiding places, So that he will not be able to conceal himself; His seed has been destroyed along with his relatives And his neighbors, and he is no more." 
Jeremiah49:11 Leave your orphans behind, I will keep them alive; And let your widows trust in Me.”" 
Jeremiah49:12 For thus says Yahweh, “Behold, those who are not under judgment to drink the cup will certainly drink it, but are you the one who will go completely unpunished? You will not go unpunished, but you will certainly drink it." 
Jeremiah49:13 For I have sworn by Myself,” declares Yahweh, “that Bozrah will become an object of horror, a reproach, a ruin, and an imprecation; and all its cities will become perpetual ruins.”" 
Jeremiah49:14 I have heard a message from Yahweh, And an envoy is sent among the nations, saying, “Gather yourselves together and come against her, And rise up for battle!”" 
Jeremiah49:15 “For behold, I have made you small among the nations, Despised among men." 
Jeremiah49:16 As for the terror of you, The arrogance of your heart has deceived you, O you who dwell in the clefts of the rock, Who seize the height of the hill. Though you make your nest as high as an eagle’s, I will bring you down from there,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah49:17 “Edom will become an object of horror; everyone who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss at all its wounds. 
Jeremiah49:18 Like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah with its neighbors,” says Yahweh, “no one will live there, nor will a son of man sojourn in it." 
Jeremiah49:19 Behold, one will come up like a lion from the thickets of the Jordan against an enduring pasture; for in an instant I will make him run away from it, and whoever is chosen I shall appoint over it. For who is like Me, and who will summon Me into court? And who then is the shepherd who can stand against Me?”" 
Jeremiah49:20 Therefore hear the counsel of Yahweh which He has counseled against Edom, and His purposes which He has purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: surely they will drag them off, even the little ones of the flock; surely He will make their pasture desolate because of them." 
Jeremiah49:21 The earth has quaked at the noise of their downfall. There is an outcry! The noise of it has been heard at the Red Sea. 
Jeremiah49:22 Behold, He will mount up and swoop like an eagle and spread out His wings against Bozrah; and the hearts of the mighty men of Edom in that day will be like the heart of a woman in labor." 
Jeremiah49:23 Concerning Damascus. “Hamath and Arpad are put to shame, For they have heard a bad report; They are melting away. There is anxiety by the sea, It cannot be quieted." 
Jeremiah49:24 Damascus has become limp in their hands; She has turned away to flee, And panic has taken hold of her; Distress and pangs have seized her Like a woman in childbirth." 
Jeremiah49:25 How the city of praise has not been forsaken, The town of My joy!" 
Jeremiah49:26 Therefore, her young men will fall in her open squares, And all the men of war will be silenced in that day,” declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Jeremiah49:27 “I will set fire to the wall of Damascus, And it will devour the fortified towers of Ben‑hadad.”" 
Jeremiah49:28 Concerning Kedar and the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon struck down. Thus says Yahweh, “Arise, go up to Kedar And destroy the men of the east." 
Jeremiah49:29 They will take away their tents and their flocks; They will carry off for themselves Their tent curtains, all their goods, and their camels, And they will call out to one another, ‘Terror on every side!’" 
Jeremiah49:30 Run away, flee earnestly! Inhabit the depths, O inhabitants of Hazor,” declares Yahweh; “For Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has taken counsel against you And purposed a purpose against you." 
Jeremiah49:31 Arise, go up against a nation which is at ease, Which inhabits its land securely,” declares Yahweh. “It has no gates or bars; They dwell alone." 
Jeremiah49:32 Their camels will become plunder, And their many cattle for spoil, And I will scatter to all the winds those who cut the corners of their hair; And I will bring their disaster from every side,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah49:33 “Hazor will become a haunt of jackals, A desolation forever; No one will inhabit there, Nor will a son of man sojourn in it.”" 
Jeremiah49:34 That which came as the word of Yahweh to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying:" 
Jeremiah49:35 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘Behold, I am going to break the bow of Elam, The finest of their might." 
Jeremiah49:36 I will bring upon Elam the four winds From the four ends of heaven, And I will scatter them to all these winds; And there will be no nation To which the banished ones of Elam will not go." 
Jeremiah49:37 So I will shatter Elam before their enemies And before those who seek their lives; And I will bring calamity upon them, Even My burning anger,’ declares Yahweh, ‘And I will send out the sword after them Until I have consumed them." 
Jeremiah49:38 Then I will set My throne in Elam And cause king and princes from there to perish,’ Declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah49:39 ‘But it will be in the last days That I will return the fortunes of Elam,’” Declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah50:1 The word which Yahweh spoke concerning Babylon, the land of the Chaldeans, by the hand of Jeremiah the prophet:" 
Jeremiah50:2 “Declare and make it heard among the nations. Make it heard and lift up a standard. Do not conceal it but say, ‘Babylon has been captured; Bel has been put to shame; Marduk has been shattered; Her images have been put to shame; her idols have been shattered.’" 
Jeremiah50:3 For a nation has come up against her out of the north; it will make her land an object of horror, and there will be no inhabitant in it. Both man and beast have wandered off; they have gone away!" 
Jeremiah50:4 “In those days and at that time,” declares Yahweh, “the sons of Israel will come, both they and the sons of Judah as well; they will go along weeping as they go, and it will be Yahweh their God they will seek." 
Jeremiah50:5 They will ask for the way to Zion—turning their faces in its direction and saying, ‘Come!’—in order that they may join themselves to Yahweh in an everlasting covenant that will not be forgotten." 
Jeremiah50:6 “My people have become lost sheep; Their shepherds have led them astray. They have made them turn away on the mountains; They have gone along from mountain to hill And have forgotten their resting place. 
Jeremiah50:7 All who came out against them have devoured them; And their adversaries have said, ‘We are not guilty, Inasmuch as they have sinned against Yahweh, who is the abode of righteousness, Even Yahweh, the hope of their fathers.’" 
Jeremiah50:8 “Wander away from the midst of Babylon And go forth from the land of the Chaldeans; Be also like male goats at the head of the flock. 
Jeremiah50:9 For behold, I am going to arouse and bring up against Babylon An assembly of great nations from the land of the north, And they will arrange their battle lines against her; From there she will be taken captive. Their arrows will be like a warrior who makes one childless Who does not return empty‑handed." 
Jeremiah50:10 Chaldea will become spoil; All who take her spoil will have enough,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah50:11 “Because you are glad, because you exult, O you who plunder My inheritance, Because you skip about like a threshing heifer And neigh like valiant steeds," 
Jeremiah50:12 Your mother will be greatly ashamed; She who gave you birth will be humiliated. Behold, she will be the least of the nations, A wilderness, a parched land, and a desert." 
Jeremiah50:13 Because of the wrath of Yahweh she will not be inhabited, But she will be completely desolate; Everyone who passes by Babylon will be in desolation And will hiss because of all her wounds." 
Jeremiah50:14 Arrange your battle lines against Babylon on every side, All you who bend the bow; Shoot at her, do not be sparing with your arrows, For she has sinned against Yahweh." 
Jeremiah50:15 Raise a loud shout against her on every side! She has given herself up, her pillars have fallen, Her walls have been pulled down. For this is the vengeance of Yahweh: Take vengeance on her; As she has done to others, so do to her." 
Jeremiah50:16 Cut off the sower from Babylon And the one who seizes the sickle at the time of harvest; From before the sword of the oppressor They will each turn back to his own people, And they will each flee to his own land." 
Jeremiah50:17 “Israel is a scattered flock; the lions have banished them away. The first one who devoured him was the king of Assyria, and this last one who has broken his bones is Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah50:18 Therefore thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel: ‘Behold, I am going to punish the king of Babylon and his land, just as I punished the king of Assyria." 
Jeremiah50:19 And I will return Israel back to his pasture, and he will graze on Carmel and Bashan, and his desire will be satisfied in the hill country of Ephraim and Gilead." 
Jeremiah50:20 In those days and at that time,’ declares Yahweh, ‘search will be made for the iniquity of Israel, but there will be none; and for the sins of Judah, but they will not be found; for I will pardon those whom I leave as a remnant.’" 
Jeremiah50:21 “Against the land of Merathaim, go up against it, And against the inhabitants of Pekod. Put them to the sword and devote them to destruction,” declares Yahweh, “And do according to all that I have commanded you." 
Jeremiah50:22 The noise of battle is in the land, And great destruction." 
Jeremiah50:23 How the hammer of the whole earth Has been cut in pieces and broken! How Babylon has become An object of horror among the nations! 
Jeremiah50:24 I set a snare for you, and you were also caught, O Babylon, But you yourself did not know; You have been found and also seized Because you have engaged in conflict with Yahweh.”" 
Jeremiah50:25 Yahweh has opened His armory And has brought forth the weapons of His indignation, For it is a work of Lord Yahweh of hosts In the land of the Chaldeans." 
Jeremiah50:26 Come to her from the farthest border; Open up her barns; Pile her up like heaps, And devote her to destruction; Let nothing of her remain." 
Jeremiah50:27 Put all her young bulls to the sword; Let them go down to the slaughter! Woe be upon them, for their day has come, The time of their punishment." 
Jeremiah50:28 There is a sound of those who flee and escape from the land of Babylon, To declare in Zion the vengeance of Yahweh our God, Vengeance for His temple." 
Jeremiah50:29 “Summon many against Babylon, All those who bend the bow: Encamp against her on every side, Let there be no escape. Repay her according to her work; According to all that she has done, so do to her; For she has become arrogant against Yahweh, Against the Holy One of Israel." 
Jeremiah50:30 Therefore her young men will fall in her open squares, And all her men of war will be silenced in that day,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah50:31 “Behold, I am against you, O arrogant one,” Declares Lord Yahweh of hosts, “For your day has come, The time when I will punish you." 
Jeremiah50:32 The arrogant one will stumble and fall With no one to raise him up; And I will set fire to his cities, And it will devour him on every side.”" 
Jeremiah50:33 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “The sons of Israel are oppressed, And the sons of Judah as well; And all who took them captive have held them fast; They have refused to let them go." 
Jeremiah50:34 Their Redeemer is strong, Yahweh of hosts is His name; He will vigorously plead their case So that He may bring relief to the earth, But turmoil to the inhabitants of Babylon." 
Jeremiah50:35 A sword against the Chaldeans,” declares Yahweh, “And against the inhabitants of Babylon And against her officials and her wise men!" 
Jeremiah50:36 A sword against the oracle priests, and they will become fools! A sword against her mighty men, and they will be shattered!" 
Jeremiah50:37 A sword against their horses and against their chariots And against all the foreigners who are in the midst of her, And they will become women! A sword against her treasures, and they will be plundered!" 
Jeremiah50:38 A drought on her waters, and they will be dried up! For it is a land of graven images, And they are mad over terrifying idols." 
Jeremiah50:39 “Therefore the desert creatures will live there along with the jackals; The ostriches also will live in it, And it will never again be lived in Or dwelt in from generation to generation." 
Jeremiah50:40 As when God overthrew Sodom And Gomorrah with its neighbors,” declares Yahweh, “No man will live there, Nor will any son of man sojourn in it." 
Jeremiah50:41 “Behold, a people is coming from the north, And a great nation and many kings Will be aroused from the remote parts of the earth." 
Jeremiah50:42 They seize their bow and javelin; They are cruel and have no compassion. Their voice roars like the sea; And they ride on horses, Arranged like a man for the battle Against you, O daughter of Babylon." 
Jeremiah50:43 The king of Babylon has heard the report about them, And his hands hang limp; Distress has taken hold of him, Agony like a woman in childbirth." 
Jeremiah50:44 “Behold, one will come up like a lion from the thicket of the Jordan to an enduring pasture; for in an instant I will make them run away from it, and whoever is chosen I will appoint over it. For who is like Me, and who will summon Me into court? And who then is the shepherd who can stand before Me?”" 
Jeremiah50:45 Therefore hear the counsel of Yahweh which He has counseled against Babylon, and His purposes which He has purposed against the land of the Chaldeans: surely they will drag them off, even the little ones of the flock; surely He will make their pasture desolate because of them." 
Jeremiah50:46 At the sound, “Babylon has been seized!” the earth is shaken, and an outcry is heard among the nations." 
Jeremiah51:1 Thus says Yahweh: “Behold, I am going to arouse against Babylon And against the inhabitants of Leb‑kamai The spirit of a destroyer." 
Jeremiah51:2 I will send strangers to Babylon that they may winnow her And may empty her land to destruction; For on every side they will be against her In the day of her calamity. 
Jeremiah51:3 Let not him who bends his bow bend it, Nor let him rise up in his scale‑armor; So do not spare her young men; Devote all her army to destruction." 
Jeremiah51:4 They will fall down slain in the land of the Chaldeans, And pierced through in their streets.”" 
Jeremiah51:5 For neither Israel nor Judah has been widowed By his God, by Yahweh of hosts, Although their land is full of guilt Before the Holy One of Israel." 
Jeremiah51:6 Flee from the midst of Babylon, And each of you escape with his life! Do not be silenced in her iniquity, For this is Yahweh’s time of vengeance; He is going to render recompense to her." 
Jeremiah51:7 Babylon has been a golden cup in the hand of Yahweh, Intoxicating all the earth. The nations have drunk of her wine; Therefore the nations are going mad." 
Jeremiah51:8 Suddenly Babylon has fallen and been broken; Wail over her! Take balm for her pain; Perhaps she may be healed. 
Jeremiah51:9 We applied healing to Babylon, but she was not healed; Forsake her and let us each go to his own country, For her judgment has touched heaven And lifts up to the very skies." 
Jeremiah51:10 Yahweh has brought about our righteousness; Come and let us recount in Zion The work of Yahweh our God! 
Jeremiah51:11 Sharpen the arrows, fill the quivers! Yahweh has aroused the spirit of the kings of the Medes Because His purpose is against Babylon to destroy it; For it is the vengeance of Yahweh, vengeance for His temple." 
Jeremiah51:12 Lift up a standard against the walls of Babylon; Make strong the watch; Raise up watchmen; Establish men in ambush! For Yahweh has both purposed and performed What He spoke concerning the inhabitants of Babylon. 
Jeremiah51:13 O you who dwell by abundant waters, Abundant in treasures, Your end has come, The measure of your end." 
Jeremiah51:14 Yahweh of hosts has sworn by Himself: “Surely I will fill you with a population like locusts, And they will cry out with shouts of victory over you.”" 
Jeremiah51:15 It is He who made the earth by His power, Who established the world by His wisdom, And by His understanding He stretched out the heavens." 
Jeremiah51:16 When He gives forth His voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, And He causes the clouds to ascend from the end of the earth; He makes lightning for the rain And brings forth the wind from His storehouses." 
Jeremiah51:17 All mankind is senseless, devoid of knowledge; Every goldsmith is put to shame by his graven image, For his molten images are a lie, And there is no breath in them." 
Jeremiah51:18 They are vanity, a work of mockery; In the time of their punishment they will perish." 
Jeremiah51:19 The portion of Jacob is not like these; For the Maker of all is He, And of the tribe of His inheritance; Yahweh of hosts is His name." 
Jeremiah51:20 He says, “You are My instrument of shattering, My weapon of war; And with you I shatter nations, And with you I destroy kingdoms." 
Jeremiah51:21 With you I shatter the horse and his rider, And with you I shatter the chariot and its rider," 
Jeremiah51:22 And with you I shatter man and woman, And with you I shatter old man and youth, And with you I shatter choice man and virgin," 
Jeremiah51:23 And with you I shatter the shepherd and his flock, And with you I shatter the farmer and his pair of oxen, And with you I shatter governors and prefects." 
Jeremiah51:24 “But I will repay Babylon and all the inhabitants of Chaldea for all their evil that they have done in Zion before your eyes,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah51:25 “Behold, I am against you, O destroying mountain, Who destroys the whole earth,” declares Yahweh, “And I will stretch out My hand against you And roll you down from the crags, And I will make you a burnt out mountain." 
Jeremiah51:26 They will not take from you even a stone for a corner Nor a stone for foundations, But you will be a perpetual desolation,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah51:27 Lift up a standard in the land, Blow a trumpet among the nations! Set apart the nations against her; Summon against her the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz; Appoint a marshal against her; Bring up the horses like bristly locusts." 
Jeremiah51:28 Set apart the nations against her, The kings of the Medes, Their governors and all their prefects And every land of their rule." 
Jeremiah51:29 So the land quakes and writhes, For the purposes of Yahweh against Babylon stand, To make the land of Babylon A desolation without inhabitants." 
Jeremiah51:30 The mighty men of Babylon have ceased fighting; They inhabit the strongholds; Their might is dried up; They are becoming like women; Their dwelling places are set on fire; The bars of her gates are broken. 
Jeremiah51:31 One runner runs to meet another, And one messenger to meet another, To give a message to the king of Babylon That his city has been captured from end to end;" 
Jeremiah51:32 The fords also have been seized, And they have burned the marshes with fire, And the men of war are terrified." 
Jeremiah51:33 For thus says Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel: “The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor At the time it is stamped firm; Yet in a little while the time of harvest will come for her.”" 
Jeremiah51:34 “Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has devoured me and brought me into confusion; He has set me down like an empty vessel; He has swallowed me like a sea monster; He has filled his stomach with my delicacies; He has rinsed me away. 
Jeremiah51:35 May the violence done to me and to my flesh be upon Babylon,” The inhabitant of Zion will say; And, “May my blood be upon the inhabitants of Chaldea,” Jerusalem will say." 
Jeremiah51:36 Therefore thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am going to plead your case And exact full vengeance for you; And I will dry up her sea And make her fountain dry." 
Jeremiah51:37 Babylon will become a heap of ruins, a haunt of jackals, An object of horror and hissing, without inhabitants." 
Jeremiah51:38 They will roar together like young lions; They will growl like lions’ cubs. 
Jeremiah51:39 When they become heated up, I will set before them their feast And make them drunk, that they may exult And may sleep a perpetual sleep And not wake up,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah51:40 “I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, Like rams together with male goats." 
Jeremiah51:41 “How Sheshak has been captured, And the praise of the whole earth been seized! How Babylon has become an object of horror among the nations!" 
Jeremiah51:42 The sea has come up over Babylon; She has been covered with its tumultuous waves. 
Jeremiah51:43 Her cities have become an object of horror, A parched land, and a desert, A land in which no man lives And through which no son of man passes." 
Jeremiah51:44 I will punish Bel in Babylon, And I will make what he has swallowed come out of his mouth; And the nations will no longer stream to him. Even the wall of Babylon has fallen down!" 
Jeremiah51:45 “Come forth from her midst, My people, And each of you escape with his life From the burning anger of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah51:46 Now lest your heart grow faint, And you fear the report that will be heard in the land— For the report will come one year, And after that another report in another year, And violence will be in the land With ruler against ruler—" 
Jeremiah51:47 Therefore behold, days are coming When I will punish the graven images of Babylon; And her whole land will be put to shame, And all her slain will fall in her midst." 
Jeremiah51:48 Then heaven and earth and all that is in them Will shout for joy over Babylon, For the destroyers will come to her from the north,” Declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah51:49 Indeed Babylon is to fall for the slain of Israel, As also for Babylon the slain of all the earth have fallen." 
Jeremiah51:50 You who have escaped the sword, Go! Do not stand around! Remember Yahweh from afar, And let Jerusalem come upon your heart." 
Jeremiah51:51 We are ashamed because we have heard reproach; Dishonor has covered our faces, For strangers have entered The holy places of the house of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah51:52 “Therefore behold, the days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “When I will punish her graven images, And the mortally wounded will groan throughout her land." 
Jeremiah51:53 Though Babylon should ascend to the heavens, And though she should fortify her lofty stronghold, From Me destroyers will come to her,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah51:54 The sound of an outcry from Babylon, And of great destruction from the land of the Chaldeans!" 
Jeremiah51:55 For Yahweh is going to destroy Babylon, And He will make her loud noise vanish from her. And their waves will roar like many waters; The rumbling of their voices sounds forth." 
Jeremiah51:56 For the destroyer is coming against her, against Babylon, And her mighty men will be captured; Their bows are shattered; For Yahweh is a God of recompense, He will fully repay." 
Jeremiah51:57 “I will make her princes and her wise men drunk, Her governors, her prefects, and her mighty men, That they may sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake up,” Declares the King, whose name is Yahweh of hosts." 
Jeremiah51:58 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “The broad wall of Babylon will be completely razed, And her high gates will be set on fire; So the peoples will toil for nothing, And the nations become weary only for fire.”" 
Jeremiah51:59 The message which Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah the son of Neriah, the grandson of Mahseiah, when he went with Zedekiah the king of Judah to Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. (Now Seraiah was quartermaster.)" 
Jeremiah51:60 So Jeremiah wrote in a single scroll all the calamity which would come upon Babylon, that is, all these words which have been written concerning Babylon." 
Jeremiah51:61 Then Jeremiah said to Seraiah, “As soon as you come to Babylon, then see that you read all these words aloud," 
Jeremiah51:62 and then you will say, ‘You, O Yahweh, have promised concerning this place to cut it off, so that there will be nothing inhabiting it, whether man or beast, but it will be a perpetual desolation.’" 
Jeremiah51:63 And as soon as you finish reading this scroll, you will tie a stone to it and throw it into the middle of the Euphrates," 
Jeremiah51:64 and then you will say, ‘Just so shall Babylon sink down and not rise again because of the calamity that I am going to bring upon her; and they will become utterly weary.’” Thus far are the words of Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah52:1 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah." 
Jeremiah52:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh, according to all that Jehoiakim had done." 
Jeremiah52:3 For through the anger of Yahweh this came about in Jerusalem and Judah until He cast them out from His presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. 
Jeremiah52:4 Now it happened in the ninth year of his reign, on the tenth day of the tenth month, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came, he and all his military force, against Jerusalem, and they camped against it and built a siege wall all around it." 
Jeremiah52:5 So the city came under siege until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. 
Jeremiah52:6 On the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine was so strong in the city that there was no food for the people of the land." 
Jeremiah52:7 Then the city was breached, and all the men of war fled and went forth from the city at night by way of the gate between the two walls which was by the king’s garden, though the Chaldeans were all around the city. And they went by way of the Arabah." 
Jeremiah52:8 But the military force of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho, and all his military force was scattered from him." 
Jeremiah52:9 Then they seized the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, and he spoke his judgment on him." 
Jeremiah52:10 Then the king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and he also slaughtered all the princes of Judah in Riblah." 
Jeremiah52:11 Then he blinded the eyes of Zedekiah; and the king of Babylon bound him with bronze fetters and brought him to Babylon and put him in prison until the day of his death. 
Jeremiah52:12 Now on the tenth day of the fifth month, which was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, Nebuzaradan the captain of the bodyguard, who stood before the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah52:13 And he burned the house of Yahweh, the king’s house, and all the houses of Jerusalem; even every large house he burned with fire." 
Jeremiah52:14 So all the military force of the Chaldeans who were with the captain of the guard tore down all the walls around Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah52:15 Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took away into exile some of the poorest of the people, the rest of the people who remained in the city, the defectors who had defected to the king of Babylon, and the rest of the artisans." 
Jeremiah52:16 But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had some of the poorest of the land remain to be vinedressers and plowmen. 
Jeremiah52:17 Now the bronze pillars which belonged to the house of Yahweh and the stands and the bronze sea, which were in the house of Yahweh, the Chaldeans shattered and carried all their bronze to Babylon." 
Jeremiah52:18 They also took away the pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the bowls, the pans, and all the bronze vessels which were used to minister." 
Jeremiah52:19 And the captain of the guard also took away the cups, the firepans, the bowls, the pots, the lampstands, the pans, and the offering bowls, what was fine gold and what was fine silver." 
Jeremiah52:20 The two pillars, the one sea, and the twelve bronze bulls that were under the sea, and the stands, which King Solomon had made for the house of Yahweh—the bronze of all these vessels was beyond weight." 
Jeremiah52:21 As for the pillars, the height of each pillar was eighteen cubits, and it was twelve cubits in circumference and four fingers in thickness, and hollow." 
Jeremiah52:22 Now a capital of bronze was on it; and the height of each capital was five cubits, with network and pomegranates upon the capital all around, all of bronze. And the second pillar was like these, including pomegranates." 
Jeremiah52:23 There were ninety-six exposed pomegranates; all the pomegranates numbered one hundred on the network all around. 
Jeremiah52:24 Then the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest, with the three doorkeepers of the temple." 
Jeremiah52:24 Then the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest, with the three doorkeepers of the temple." 
Jeremiah52:25 And from the city he took one official who was overseer of the men of war, and seven of the king’s advisers who were found in the city, and the scribe of the commander of the army who mustered the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the midst of the city." 
Jeremiah52:26 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and led them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 
Jeremiah52:27 Then the king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah went into exile from its land. 
Jeremiah52:28 These are the people whom Nebuchadnezzar took away into exile: in the seventh year 3,023 Jews;" 
Jeremiah52:29 in the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar 832 persons from Jerusalem; 
Jeremiah52:30 in the twenty-third year of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took away into exile 745 Jewish people; there were 4,600 persons in all." 
Jeremiah52:31 Now it happened in the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-fifth of the month, that Evil-merodach king of Babylon, in the first year of his reign, lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah and brought him out of prison;" 
Jeremiah52:32 and he spoke to him good words, and he set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon." 
Jeremiah52:33 So Jehoiachin changed his prison clothes and had his meals in the king’s presence continually all the days of his life. 
Jeremiah52:34 For his allowance, a continual allowance was given him by the king of Babylon, a daily portion all the days of his life until the day of his death." 
Lamentations1:1 How lonely sits the city That was great with people! She has become like a widow Who was once great among the nations! She who was a princess among the provinces Has become a forced laborer! 
Lamentations1:2 She weeps bitterly in the night, And her tears are on her cheeks; She has none to comfort her Among all her lovers. All her friends have dealt treacherously with her; They have become her enemies." 
Lamentations1:3 Judah has gone into exile because of affliction And because of great slavery; She sits among the nations, But she has found no rest; All her pursuers have overtaken her In the midst of distress." 
Lamentations1:4 The roads of Zion are in mourning Because no one comes to the appointed times. All her gates are desolate; Her priests are sighing, Her virgins are grieving, And she herself is bitter." 
Lamentations1:5 Her adversaries have become her masters; Her enemies are complacent; For Yahweh has caused her grief Because of the greatness of her transgressions; Her infants have gone away As captives before the adversary. 
Lamentations1:6 So all her majesty Has gone out from the daughter of Zion; Her princes have become like deer That have found no pasture; So they have fled without strength Before the pursuer. 
Lamentations1:7 In the days of her affliction and homelessness Jerusalem remembers all her precious things That were from the days of old, When her people fell into the hand of the adversary And no one helped her. The adversaries saw her; They laughed at her ruin." 
Lamentations1:8 Jerusalem sinned greatly; Therefore she has become an impure thing. All who honored her despise her Because they have seen her nakedness; Even she herself sighs and turns away. 
Lamentations1:9 Her uncleanness was in her skirts; She did not remember her future. Therefore she has gone down astonishingly; She has no comforter. “See, O Yahweh, my affliction, For the enemy has magnified himself!”" 
Lamentations1:10 The adversary has stretched out his hand Over all her desirable things, For she has seen the nations enter her sanctuary, The ones whom You commanded That they should not enter into Your assembly." 
Lamentations1:11 All her people are sighing, seeking bread; They have given their desirable things for food To restore their souls. “See, O Yahweh, and look, For I am despised.”" 
Lamentations1:12 “Is it nothing to all you who pass this way? Look and see if there is any pain like my pain Which was dealt severely to me, Which Yahweh grieved me with on the day of His burning anger." 
Lamentations1:13 From on high He sent fire into my bones, And it dominated them. He has spread a net for my feet; He has turned me back; He has made me desolate, Faint all day long." 
Lamentations1:14 The yoke of my transgressions is bound; By His hand they are knit together. They have come upon my neck; He has made my strength stumble. The Lord has given me into the hands Of those against whom I am not able to stand. 
Lamentations1:15 The Lord has rejected all my mighty men In my midst; He has called an appointed time against me To break my young men; The Lord has trodden as in a wine press The virgin daughter of Judah. 
Lamentations1:16 For these things I am weeping; My eyes run down with water; Because far from me is a comforter, One who restores my soul. My children are desolate Because the enemy has prevailed.”" 
Lamentations1:17 Zion stretches out her hands; There is no one to comfort her; Yahweh has commanded concerning Jacob That the ones round about him should be his adversaries; Jerusalem has become an impure thing among them. 
Lamentations1:18 “Yahweh is righteous; For I have rebelled against His command; Hear now, all peoples, And behold my pain; My virgins and my young men Have gone into captivity." 
Lamentations1:19 I called to my lovers, but they deceived me; My priests and my elders breathed their last in the city While they sought food for themselves in order to restore their souls." 
Lamentations1:20 See, O Yahweh, for I am in distress; My inmost being is greatly disturbed; My heart is overturned within me, For I have been very rebellious. In the street the sword bereaves; In the house it is like death." 
Lamentations1:21 They have heard that I am sighing; There is no one to comfort me; All my enemies have heard of the evil done to me; They rejoice that You have done it. You have brought the day which You have proclaimed, So that they will become like me." 
Lamentations1:22 Let all their evil come before You; And deal severely with them as You have dealt severely with me For all my transgressions; For my groans are great and my heart is faint.” 
Lamentations2:1 How the Lord has covered the daughter of Zion With a cloud in His anger! He has cast from heaven to earth The beauty of Israel, And has not remembered the footstool of His feet In the day of His anger." 
Lamentations2:2 The Lord has swallowed up; He has not spared All the habitations of Jacob. In His wrath He has pulled down The strongholds of the daughter of Judah; He has brought them down to the ground; He has profaned the kingdom and its princes. 
Lamentations2:3 In hot anger He has cut in pieces All the strength of Israel; He has turned back His right hand From before the enemy. And He has burned in Jacob like a flaming fire Devouring round about. 
Lamentations2:4 He has bent His bow like an enemy; He has set His right hand like an adversary And killed all that were desirable to the eye; In the tent of the daughter of Zion He has poured out His wrath like fire. 
Lamentations2:5 The Lord has become like an enemy. He has swallowed up Israel; He has swallowed up all its palaces; He has brought its strongholds to ruin And multiplied in the daughter of Judah Mourning and moaning. 
Lamentations2:6 And He has violently treated His tabernacle like a garden booth; He has brought His appointed meeting place to ruin. Yahweh has caused to be forgotten The appointed time and sabbath in Zion, And He has spurned king and priest In the indignation of His anger." 
Lamentations2:7 The Lord has rejected His altar; He has abandoned His sanctuary; He has delivered into the hand of the enemy The walls of her palaces. They have made a noise in the house of Yahweh As in the day of an appointed time. 
Lamentations2:8 Yahweh determined to bring to ruin The wall of the daughter of Zion. He has stretched out a line; He has not turned His hand back from swallowing up, And He has caused rampart and wall to mourn; They have languished together." 
Lamentations2:9 Her gates have sunk into the ground; He has destroyed and broken her bars. Her king and her princes are among the nations; The law is no more. Also, her prophets find No vision from Yahweh." 
Lamentations2:10 The elders of the daughter of Zion Sit on the ground; they are silent. They have thrown dust up on their heads; They have girded themselves with sackcloth. The virgins of Jerusalem Have bowed their heads down to the ground. 
Lamentations2:11 My eyes fail because of tears; My inmost being is greatly disturbed; My heart is poured out on the earth Because of the destruction of the daughter of my people, When infants and nursing babies faint In the open squares of the city." 
Lamentations2:12 They say to their mothers, “Where is grain and wine?” As they faint like a wounded man In the open squares of the city, As their life is poured out On their mothers’ bosom." 
Lamentations2:13 What shall I testify about you? To what shall I equate you, O daughter of Jerusalem? To what shall I liken you as I comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your destruction is as vast as the sea; Who can heal you?" 
Lamentations2:14 Your prophets have beheld for you Worthless and ineffective visions; And they have not uncovered your iniquity So as to return you from captivity, But they have beheld for you worthless and misleading oracles." 
Lamentations2:15 All who pass along the way Clap their hands in derision at you; They hiss and shake their heads At the daughter of Jerusalem, “Is this the city of which they said, ‘The perfection of beauty, The joy of the whole earth’?”" 
Lamentations2:16 All your enemies Have opened their mouths wide against you; They hiss and gnash their teeth. They say, “We have swallowed her up! Surely this is the day for which we have hoped; We have found it, we have seen it.”" 
Lamentations2:17 Yahweh has done what He purposed; He has completed His word Which He commanded from days of old. He has pulled down without sparing, And He has caused the enemy to be glad over you; He has exalted the might of your adversaries." 
Lamentations2:18 Their heart cried out to the Lord, “O wall of the daughter of Zion, Let your tears run down like a river day and night; Give yourself no relief; Let your eyes not be still." 
Lamentations2:19 Arise, cry aloud in the night At the head of the night watches; Pour out your heart like water Before the presence of the Lord; Lift up your hands to Him For the life of your infants Who are faint because of hunger At the head of every street.”" 
Lamentations2:20 See, O Yahweh, and look! With whom have You dealt thus? Should women eat their offspring, The infants who were born healthy? Should priest and prophet be killed In the sanctuary of the Lord?" 
Lamentations2:21 On the ground in the streets Lie young and old; My virgins and my young men Have fallen by the sword. You have killed them in the day of Your anger; You have slaughtered, not sparing." 
Lamentations2:22 You called as in the day of an appointed time My terrors on every side; And there was no one who escaped or survived In the day of Yahweh’s anger. Those whom I gave birth to and reared, My enemy consumed them." 
Lamentations3:1 I am the man who has seen affliction Because of the rod of His wrath. 
Lamentations3:2 He has driven me and made me walk In darkness and not in light. 
Lamentations3:3 Surely against me He has turned His hand Repeatedly all the day. 
Lamentations3:4 He has caused my flesh and my skin to waste away; He has broken my bones. 
Lamentations3:5 He has besieged and encompassed me with gall and hardship. 
Lamentations3:6 Dark places He has made me inhabit, Like those who have long been dead." 
Lamentations3:7 He has walled me in so that I cannot go out; He has made my chain heavy. 
Lamentations3:8 Even when I cry out and call for help, He shuts out my prayer." 
Lamentations3:9 He has blocked my ways with cut stone; He has made my paths crooked. 
Lamentations3:10 He is to me like a bear lying in wait, Like a lion in secret places." 
Lamentations3:11 He has turned aside my ways and torn me to pieces; He has made me desolate. 
Lamentations3:12 He bent His bow And set me as a target for the arrow. 
Lamentations3:13 He made the arrows of His quiver To enter into my inward parts. 
Lamentations3:14 I have become a laughingstock to all my people, Their music of mockery all the day." 
Lamentations3:15 He has saturated me with bitterness; He has sated me with wormwood. 
Lamentations3:16 He has broken my teeth with gravel; He has made me cower in the dust. 
Lamentations3:17 My soul has been rejected from peace; I have forgotten goodness. 
Lamentations3:18 So I say, “My strength has perished, As well as my hopeful waiting which comes from Yahweh.”" 
Lamentations3:19 Remember my affliction and my homelessness, the wormwood and gall." 
Lamentations3:20 Surely my soul remembers And is bowed down within me. 
Lamentations3:21 This I will return to my heart; Therefore I will wait in hope. 
Lamentations3:22 The lovingkindnesses of Yahweh indeed never cease, For His compassions never fail." 
Lamentations3:23 They are new every morning; Great is Your faithfulness. 
Lamentations3:24 “Yahweh is my portion,” says my soul, “Therefore I wait for Him.”" 
Lamentations3:25 Yahweh is good to those who hope in Him, To the soul who seeks Him." 
Lamentations3:26 It is good that he waits silently For the salvation of Yahweh. 
Lamentations3:27 It is good for a man that he should bear The yoke in his youth. 
Lamentations3:28 Let him sit alone and be silent Since He has laid it on him. 
Lamentations3:29 Let him put his mouth in the dust; Perhaps there is hope. 
Lamentations3:30 Let him give his cheek to the one who strikes him; Let him be saturated with reproach. 
Lamentations3:31 For the Lord will not reject forever," 
Lamentations3:32 For if He causes grief, Then He will have compassion According to His abundant lovingkindness." 
Lamentations3:33 For He does not afflict from His heart Or grieve the sons of men. 
Lamentations3:34 To crush under His feet All the prisoners of the land," 
Lamentations3:35 To deprive a man of justice In the presence of the Most High," 
Lamentations3:36 To defraud a man in his legal case— These things the Lord does not see with approval. 
Lamentations3:37 Who is there who speaks and it happens, Unless the Lord has commanded it?" 
Lamentations3:38 Is it not from the mouth of the Most High That both calamities and good go forth? 
Lamentations3:39 Why should any living person or any man Complain because of his sins? 
Lamentations3:40 Let us search out and examine our ways, And let us return to Yahweh." 
Lamentations3:41 We lift up our heart to our hands Toward God in heaven; 
Lamentations3:42 We have transgressed and rebelled; You have not pardoned. 
Lamentations3:43 You have covered Yourself with anger And pursued us; You have killed and have not spared. 
Lamentations3:44 You have covered Yourself with a cloud So that no prayer can pass through. 
Lamentations3:45 You have made us mere scum and refuse In the midst of the peoples. 
Lamentations3:46 All our enemies have opened their mouths against us. 
Lamentations3:47 Panic and pitfall have befallen us, Devastation and destruction;" 
Lamentations3:48 My eyes run down with streams of water Because of the destruction of the daughter of my people. 
Lamentations3:49 My eyes pour down unceasingly, Without stopping," 
Lamentations3:50 Until Yahweh looks down And sees from heaven. 
Lamentations3:51 My eyes deal severely with my soul Because of all the daughters of my city. 
Lamentations3:52 My enemies without cause Hunted me down like a bird; 
Lamentations3:53 They have silenced my life in the pit And have placed a stone on me. 
Lamentations3:54 Waters flowed over my head; I said, “I am cut off!”" 
Lamentations3:55 I called on Your name, O Yahweh, Out of the lowest pit." 
Lamentations3:56 You have heard my voice, “Do not hide Your ear from my prayer for relief, From my cry for help.”" 
Lamentations3:57 You drew near when I called on You; You said, “Do not fear!”" 
Lamentations3:58 O Lord, You have pleaded my soul’s cause; You have redeemed my life." 
Lamentations3:59 O Yahweh, You have seen my oppression; Judge my case." 
Lamentations3:60 You have seen all their vengeance, All their purposes against me." 
Lamentations3:61 You have heard their reproach, O Yahweh, All their purposes against me." 
Lamentations3:62 The lips of those who rise against me and their whispering Are against me all day long. 
Lamentations3:63 Look on their sitting and their rising; I am their mocking song. 
Lamentations3:64 You will recompense them, O Yahweh, According to the work of their hands." 
Lamentations3:65 You will give them dullness of heart; Your curse will be on them. 
Lamentations3:66 You will pursue them in anger and destroy them From under the heavens of Yahweh! 
Lamentations4:1 How dark the gold has become, How the pure gold has changed! The sacred stones are poured out At the head of every street." 
Lamentations4:2 The precious sons of Zion, Weighed against fine gold, How they are regarded as earthen jars, The work of a potter’s hands!" 
Lamentations4:3 Even jackals offer the breast; They nurse their young; But the daughter of my people has become cruel Like ostriches in the wilderness. 
Lamentations4:4 The tongue of the nursing baby cleaves To the roof of its mouth because of thirst; The infants ask for bread, But no one breaks it for them." 
Lamentations4:5 Those who ate delicacies Are desolate in the streets; Those reared in crimson Embrace ash pits. 
Lamentations4:6 So the iniquity of the daughter of my people Is greater than the sin of Sodom, Which was overthrown as in a moment, And no hands whirled toward her." 
Lamentations4:7 Her Nazirites were purer than snow; They were whiter than milk; They were more ruddy in body than corals, Their polishing was like lapis lazuli." 
Lamentations4:8 Their form is blacker than soot; They are not recognized in the streets; Their skin is shriveled on their bones; It is withered, it has become like wood." 
Lamentations4:9 Better are those pierced through with the sword Than those pierced through with hunger; For their life flows away, being stricken For lack of the produce of the field." 
Lamentations4:10 The hands of compassionate women Boiled their own children; They became food for them Because of the destruction of the daughter of my people. 
Lamentations4:11 Yahweh has spent His wrath; He has poured out His burning anger; And He has kindled a fire in Zion Which has devoured its foundations. 
Lamentations4:12 The kings of the earth did not believe, Nor did any of the inhabitants of the world, That the adversary and the enemy Could enter the gates of Jerusalem." 
Lamentations4:13 Because of the sins of her prophets And the iniquities of her priests, Who have shed in her midst The blood of the righteous;" 
Lamentations4:14 They wandered, blind, in the streets; They were defiled with blood So that no one could touch their garments." 
Lamentations4:15 “Depart! Unclean!” they cried of themselves. “Depart, depart, do not touch!” So they fled and wandered; Men among the nations said, “They shall not continue to sojourn with us.”" 
Lamentations4:16 The presence of Yahweh has eradicated them; He will not continue to look at them; They did not honor the priests; They did not favor the elders. 
Lamentations4:17 Yet our eyes were spent, Looking for help was vanity; In our watching we have watched For a nation that could not save." 
Lamentations4:18 They hunted our steps So that we could not walk in our open squares; Our end drew near, Our days were finished, For our end had come." 
Lamentations4:19 Our pursuers were swifter Than the eagles of the sky; They hotly pursued us on the mountains; They waited in ambush for us in the wilderness. 
Lamentations4:20 The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of Yahweh, Was captured in their pits, Of whom we had said, “Under his shadow We shall live among the nations.”" 
Lamentations4:21 Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, Who inhabits the land of Uz; But the cup will pass on to you as well; You will become drunk and make yourself naked." 
Lamentations4:22 The punishment of your iniquity has come to an end, O daughter of Zion; He will exile you no longer. But He will punish your iniquity, O daughter of Edom; He will expose your sins!" 
Lamentations5:1 Remember, O Yahweh, what has happened to us; Look, and see our reproach!" 
Lamentations5:2 Our inheritance has been turned over to strangers, Our houses to foreigners." 
Lamentations5:3 We have become orphans without a father; Our mothers are like widows. 
Lamentations5:4 We drink our water by means of silver; Our wood comes to us at a price. 
Lamentations5:5 Our pursuers are at our necks; We are worn out; there is no rest for us. 
Lamentations5:6 We have given over our hands to Egypt and Assyria to get enough bread. 
Lamentations5:7 Our fathers sinned; they are no more; It is we who have borne their iniquities. 
Lamentations5:8 Slaves rule over us; There is no one to tear us away from their hand. 
Lamentations5:9 We get our bread at the risk of our lives Because of the sword in the wilderness. 
Lamentations5:10 Our skin has become as hot as an oven Because of the burning heat of famine. 
Lamentations5:11 They violated the women in Zion, The virgins in the cities of Judah." 
Lamentations5:12 Princes were hung by their hands; Elders were not respected. 
Lamentations5:13 Young men lifted up the stone at the grinding mill, And youths stumbled down under loads of wood." 
Lamentations5:14 Elders have ceased from being at the gate, Young men from their music." 
Lamentations5:15 The joy of our hearts has ceased; Our dancing has been turned into mourning. 
Lamentations5:16 The crown has fallen from our head; Woe to us, for we have sinned!" 
Lamentations5:17 Because of this our heart is faint; Because of these things our eyes are dim; 
Lamentations5:18 Because of Mount Zion which lies desolate, Foxes walk about in it." 
Lamentations5:19 You, O Yahweh, sit enthroned forever; Your throne is from generation to generation." 
Lamentations5:20 Why do You forget us forever? Why do You forsake us so long? 
Lamentations5:21 Cause us to return to You, O Yahweh, that we may be returned; Renew our days as of old," 
Lamentations5:22 Even if You have utterly rejected us And are exceedingly angry with us. 
Ezekiel1:1 Now it happened in the thirtieth year, on the fifth day of the fourth month, while I was by the river Chebar among the exiles, that the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God." 
Ezekiel1:2 (On the fifth of the month in the fifth year of King Jehoiachin’s exile," 
Ezekiel1:3 the word of Yahweh came expressly to Ezekiel the priest, son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and there the hand of Yahweh came upon him.)" 
Ezekiel1:4 Then I looked, and behold, a storm wind was coming from the north, a great cloud with fire flashing forth continually and a bright light all around it, and in its midst something like the gleam of glowing metal in the midst of the fire." 
Ezekiel1:5 And within it there were figures with the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: they had the likeness of a man. 
Ezekiel1:6 And each of them had four faces and four wings. 
Ezekiel1:7 And their legs were straight, and their feet were like a calf’s hoof, and they sparkled like the gleam of burnished bronze." 
Ezekiel1:8 And under their wings on their four sides were hands of a man. As for the faces and wings of the four of them," 
Ezekiel1:9 their wings touched one another; their faces did not turn as they went; each went straight forward. 
Ezekiel1:10 And as for the likeness of their faces, each had the face of a man; all four had the face of a lion on the right and the face of a bull on the left, and all four had the face of an eagle." 
Ezekiel1:11 And such were their faces. Their wings were spread out above; each had two touching another being, and two covering their bodies." 
Ezekiel1:12 And each went straight forward; wherever the spirit was about to go, they would go, without turning as they went." 
Ezekiel1:13 As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of torches going back and forth among the living creatures. The fire was bright, and lightning was flashing from the fire." 
Ezekiel1:14 And the living creatures ran to and fro with the appearance of lightning. 
Ezekiel1:15 Then I looked at the living creatures, and behold, there was one wheel on the earth beside the living creatures, for each of the four of them." 
Ezekiel1:16 The appearance of the wheels and their workmanship was like the gleam of beryl, and all four of them had the same likeness, their appearance and workmanship being as if one wheel were within another." 
Ezekiel1:17 Whenever they went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went." 
Ezekiel1:18 And as for their rims, they were lofty and awesome, and the rims of all four of them were full of eyes all around." 
Ezekiel1:19 And when the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them. And when the living creatures rose from the earth, the wheels rose also." 
Ezekiel1:20 Wherever the spirit was about to go, they would go in that direction, where the spirit was about to go. And the wheels rose alongside of them; for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels." 
Ezekiel1:21 Whenever those went, these went; and whenever those stood still, these stood still. And whenever those rose from the earth, the wheels rose close beside them; for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels." 
Ezekiel1:22 Now over the heads of the living creatures there was something with the likeness of an expanse, like the awesome gleam of crystal, spread out over their heads above." 
Ezekiel1:23 And underneath the expanse their wings were stretched out straight, one toward the other; each one also had two wings covering its body on the one side and on the other." 
Ezekiel1:24 I also heard the sound of their wings like the sound of many waters as they went, like the sound of the Almighty, a sound of tumult like the sound of an army camp; whenever they stood still, they dropped their wings." 
Ezekiel1:25 And there came a sound from above the expanse that was over their heads; whenever they stood still, they dropped their wings." 
Ezekiel1:26 Now above the expanse that was over their heads there was something in the likeness of a throne, like sapphire stone in appearance; and upon the likeness of the throne, high up, was the likeness of one with the appearance of a man." 
Ezekiel1:27 Then I saw from the appearance of His loins and upward something like the gleam of glowing metal with the appearance of fire all around within it, and from the appearance of His loins and downward I saw something with the appearance of fire; and there was a radiance all around Him." 
Ezekiel1:28 As the appearance of the rainbow in the clouds on a rainy day, so was the appearance of the radiance all around. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of Yahweh. And I saw this, and I fell on my face and heard a sound of a voice speaking." 
Ezekiel2:1 Then He said to me, “Son of man, stand on your feet that I may speak with you!”" 
Ezekiel2:2 And as He spoke to me, the Spirit entered me and caused me to stand on my feet; and I heard Him speaking to me." 
Ezekiel2:3 Then He said to me, “Son of man, I am sending you to the sons of Israel, to a rebellious people who have rebelled against Me; they and their fathers have transgressed against Me to this very day." 
Ezekiel2:4 I am sending you to them who are stiff-faced and strong-hearted children, and you shall say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh.’" 
Ezekiel2:5 As for them, whether they listen or whether they refuse—for they are a rebellious house—they will know that a prophet has been among them." 
Ezekiel2:6 Now as for you, son of man, do not fear them and do not fear their words, though thistles and briers are with you and you sit on scorpions; neither fear their words nor be dismayed at their presence, for they are a rebellious house." 
Ezekiel2:7 But you shall speak My words to them whether they listen or whether they refuse, for they are rebellious." 
Ezekiel2:8 “Now as for you, son of man, listen to what I am speaking to you; do not be rebellious like that rebellious house. Open your mouth and eat what I am giving you.”" 
Ezekiel2:9 Then I looked, and behold, a hand was sent forth to me; and behold, a scroll was in it." 
Ezekiel2:10 Then He spread it out before me, and it was written on the front and back, and written on it were lamentations, sighing, and woe." 
Ezekiel3:1 Then He said to me, “Son of man, eat what you find; eat this scroll, and go, speak to the house of Israel.”" 
Ezekiel3:2 So I opened my mouth, and He fed me this scroll." 
Ezekiel3:3 And He said to me, “Son of man, feed your stomach and fill your body with this scroll which I am giving you.” Then I ate it, and it was sweet as honey in my mouth." 
Ezekiel3:4 Then He said to me, “Son of man, go now, come to the house of Israel, and you shall speak with My words to them." 
Ezekiel3:5 For you are not being sent to a people of unintelligible lips or a difficult tongue, but to the house of Israel," 
Ezekiel3:6 nor to many peoples of unintelligible lips or a difficult tongue, whose words you cannot understand. But I have sent you to them who should listen to you;" 
Ezekiel3:7 yet the house of Israel will not be willing to listen to you, since they are not willing to listen to Me. Surely the whole house of Israel is stubborn with a strong forehead and stiff heart." 
Ezekiel3:8 Behold, I have made your face as strong as their faces and your forehead as strong as their foreheads." 
Ezekiel3:9 Like diamond stronger than flint I have made your forehead. Do not be afraid of them or be dismayed before them, though they are a rebellious house.”" 
Ezekiel3:10 Moreover, He said to me, “Son of man, take into your heart all My words which I will speak to you and listen with your ears." 
Ezekiel3:11 And go now, come to the exiles, to the sons of your people, and you shall speak to them and say to them, whether they listen or whether they refuse, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel3:12 Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard a great rumbling sound behind me, “Blessed be the glory of Yahweh in His place.”" 
Ezekiel3:13 And I heard the sound of the wings of the living creatures touching one another and the sound of the wheels beside them, even a great rumbling sound." 
Ezekiel3:14 So the Spirit lifted me up and took me away; and I went embittered in the wrath of my spirit, and the hand of Yahweh was strong on me." 
Ezekiel3:15 Then I came to the exiles who lived beside the river Chebar at Tel-abib, and I sat there seven days where they were living, causing consternation among them." 
Ezekiel3:16 Now it happened at the end of seven days, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel3:17 “Son of man, I have given you as a watchman to the house of Israel; so you will hear a word from My mouth, and you shall warn them from Me." 
Ezekiel3:18 When I say to the wicked, ‘You will surely die,’ and you do not warn him or speak out to warn the wicked from his wicked way that he may live, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand." 
Ezekiel3:19 Yet if you have warned the wicked and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but you have delivered yourself." 
Ezekiel3:20 Again, when a righteous man turns away from his righteousness and does evil, and I put a stumbling block before him, he will die; since you have not warned him, he shall die in his sin, and his righteous deeds which he has done shall not be remembered; but his blood I will require at your hand." 
Ezekiel3:21 However, if you have warned the righteous man that the righteous should not sin and he does not sin, he shall surely live because he took warning; and you have delivered yourself.”" 
Ezekiel3:22 And the hand of Yahweh was on me there, and He said to me, “Get up, go out to the plain, and there I will speak to you.”" 
Ezekiel3:23 So I got up and went out to the plain; and behold, the glory of Yahweh was standing there, like the glory which I saw by the river Chebar, and I fell on my face." 
Ezekiel3:24 The Spirit then entered me and caused me to stand on my feet, and He spoke with me and said to me, “Go, shut yourself up in your house." 
Ezekiel3:25 Now as for you, son of man, they will put ropes on you and bind you with them so that you cannot go out among them." 
Ezekiel3:26 Moreover, I will make your tongue cling to the roof of your mouth so that you will be mute and cannot be a man who reproves them, for they are a rebellious house." 
Ezekiel3:27 But when I speak to you, I will open your mouth, and you will say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh.’ He who hears, let him hear; and he who refuses, let him refuse; for they are a rebellious house." 
Ezekiel4:1 “Now as for you, son of man, get yourself a brick, set it before you, and inscribe a city on it, Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel4:2 Then set a siege against it, build a siege wall against it, raise up a ramp against it, set up camps against it, and place battering rams against it all around." 
Ezekiel4:3 Now as for you, get yourself an iron plate and set it up as an iron wall between you and the city, and establish your face toward it so that it is under siege, and besiege it. This is a sign to the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel4:4 “Now as for you, lie down on your left side and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel on it; you shall bear their iniquity for the number of days that you lie on it." 
Ezekiel4:5 Now I have set a number of days for you corresponding to the years of their iniquity, 390 days; thus you shall bear the iniquity of the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel4:6 And you shall complete these, and you shall lie down a second time, but on your right side and bear the iniquity of the house of Judah; I have set it for you for forty days, a day for each year." 
Ezekiel4:7 Then you shall establish your face toward the siege of Jerusalem with your arm bared and prophesy against it. 
Ezekiel4:8 Now behold, I will set ropes upon you so that you cannot turn from one side to the other until you have completed the days of your siege." 
Ezekiel4:9 “Now as for you, take wheat, barley, beans, lentils, millet, and spelt; set them in one vessel and make them into bread for yourself; you shall eat it according to the number of the days that you lie on your side, 390 days." 
Ezekiel4:10 And your food which you eat shall be twenty shekels a day by weight; you shall eat it from time to time. 
Ezekiel4:11 The water you drink shall be the sixth part of a hin by measure; you shall drink it from time to time. 
Ezekiel4:12 You shall eat it as a barley cake, having baked it in their sight over human dung.”" 
Ezekiel4:13 Then Yahweh said, “Thus will the sons of Israel eat their bread unclean among the nations where I will banish them.”" 
Ezekiel4:14 But I said, “Ah, Lord Yahweh! Behold, I have never been defiled; for from my youth until now I have never eaten what died of itself or was torn by beasts, nor has any offensive meat ever entered my mouth.”" 
Ezekiel4:15 Then He said to me, “See, I will set for you cow’s dung in place of human dung over which you will prepare your bread.”" 
Ezekiel4:16 Moreover, He said to me, “Son of man, behold, I am going to break the staff of bread in Jerusalem, and they will eat bread by weight and with anxiety, and they will drink water by measure and in desolation" 
Ezekiel4:17 because bread and water will be lacking; and they will be in desolation with one another and rot away in their iniquity. 
Ezekiel5:1 “Now as for you, son of man, take a sharp sword; take and use it as a barber’s razor on your head and beard. Then take scales for weighing and divide the hair." 
Ezekiel5:2 One-third you shall burn in the fire at the center of the city when the days of the siege are fulfilled. Then you shall take one-third and strike it with the sword all around the city, and one-third you shall scatter to the wind; and I will unsheathe a sword behind them." 
Ezekiel5:3 You shall also take a few in number from them and bind them in the edges of your robes. 
Ezekiel5:4 Take again some of them and throw them into the fire and burn them in the fire; from it a fire will spread to all the house of Israel. 
Ezekiel5:5 “Thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘This is Jerusalem; I have set her at the center of the nations, with lands all around her." 
Ezekiel5:6 But she has rebelled against My judgments more wickedly than the nations and against My statutes more than the lands which are all around her; for they have rejected My judgments and have not walked in My statutes.’ 
Ezekiel5:7 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Because you have more turmoil than the nations which are all around you and have not walked in My statutes, nor done My judgments, nor done the judgments of the nations which are all around you,’" 
Ezekiel5:8 therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Behold, I, even I, am against you, and I will execute judgments among you in the sight of the nations." 
Ezekiel5:9 And I will do among you what I have not done and the like of which I will never do again because of all your abominations. 
Ezekiel5:10 Therefore, fathers will eat their sons among you, and sons will eat their fathers; for I will execute judgments on you and scatter all your remnant to every wind." 
Ezekiel5:11 So as I live,’ declares Lord Yahweh, ‘surely, because you have defiled My sanctuary with all your detestable idols and with all your abominations, therefore I will also withdraw, and My eye will have no pity, and I will not spare." 
Ezekiel5:12 One-third of you will die by the plague or be consumed by the famine among you, one-third will fall by the sword around you, and one-third I will scatter to every wind, and I will unsheathe a sword behind them." 
Ezekiel5:13 ‘Thus My anger will be spent, and I will cause My wrath against them to be at rest, and I will be appeased; then they will know that I, Yahweh, have spoken in My zeal when I have spent My wrath upon them." 
Ezekiel5:14 Moreover, I will make you a ruin and a reproach among the nations which are all around you, in the sight of all who pass by." 
Ezekiel5:15 So it will be a reproach, a reviling, a chastisement, and a desecration to the nations who are all around you when I execute judgments against you in anger, wrath, and wrathful reproofs. I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel5:16 When I send against them the deadly arrows of famine which were for the destruction of those whom I will send to destroy you, then I will also intensify the famine upon you and break the staff of bread." 
Ezekiel5:17 Moreover, I will send on you famine and wild beasts, and they will bereave you of children; plague and bloodshed also will pass through you, and I will bring the sword on you. I, Yahweh, have spoken.’”" 
Ezekiel6:1 And the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel6:2 “Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them" 
Ezekiel6:3 and say, ‘Mountains of Israel, hear the word of Lord Yahweh! Thus says Lord Yahweh to the mountains, the hills, the ravines, and the valleys: “Behold, I Myself am going to bring a sword on you, and I will destroy your high places." 
Ezekiel6:4 So your altars will become desolate, and your incense altars will be broken; and I will make your slain fall in front of your idols." 
Ezekiel6:5 I will also put the dead bodies of the sons of Israel in front of their idols; and I will scatter your bones all around your altars. 
Ezekiel6:6 In all your places of habitation, cities will become waste, and the high places will be desolate, that your altars may become waste and desolate, your idols may be broken and cease, your incense altars may be cut in pieces, and your works may be blotted out." 
Ezekiel6:7 The slain will fall among you, and you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel6:8 “However, I will leave a remnant, for you will have those who escaped the sword among the nations when you are scattered among the lands." 
Ezekiel6:9 Then those of you who escape will remember Me among the nations to which they will be carried captive, how I have been broken over their adulterous hearts which turned away from Me, and by their eyes which played the harlot after their idols; and they will loathe themselves to their own faces for the evils which they have done, for all their abominations." 
Ezekiel6:10 Then they will know that I am Yahweh; I have not said in vain that I would do this calamitous evil against them.”’ 
Ezekiel6:11 “Thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Strike your hands together, stamp your foot and say, “Alas, because of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel, which will fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the plague!" 
Ezekiel6:12 He who is far off will die by the plague, and he who is near will fall by the sword, and he who remains and is besieged will die by the famine. Thus will I spend My wrath on them." 
Ezekiel6:13 Then you will know that I am Yahweh when their slain are among their idols all around their altars, on every high hill, on all the tops of the mountains, under every green tree, and under every leafy oak—the places where they offered a soothing aroma to all their idols." 
Ezekiel6:14 So throughout all their habitations I will stretch out My hand against them and make the land more desolate and desecrated than the wilderness toward Diblah; thus they will know that I am Yahweh.”’” 
Ezekiel7:1 Moreover, the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel7:2 “Now as for you, son of man, thus says Lord Yahweh to the land of Israel, ‘An end! The end is coming on the four corners of the earth." 
Ezekiel7:3 Now the end is upon you, and I will send My anger against you; I will judge you according to your ways and put all your abominations upon you." 
Ezekiel7:4 For My eye will have no pity on you, nor will I spare you, but I will put your ways upon you, and your abominations will be among you; then you will know that I am Yahweh!’" 
Ezekiel7:5 “Thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘A calamitous evil, a unique calamitous evil, behold, it is coming!" 
Ezekiel7:6 An end has come; the end has come! It has awakened against you; behold, it is coming!" 
Ezekiel7:7 Your doom has come to you, O inhabitant of the land. The time has come; the day is near—confusion rather than joyful shouting on the mountains." 
Ezekiel7:8 Now it is near when I will pour out My wrath on you and spend My anger against you and judge you according to your ways and put on you all your abominations. 
Ezekiel7:9 My eye will show no pity, nor will I spare. I will give to you according to your ways, while your abominations are among you; then you will know that I, Yahweh, do the striking." 
Ezekiel7:10 ‘Behold, the day! Behold, it is coming! Your doom has gone forth; the rod has blossomed; arrogance has budded." 
Ezekiel7:11 Violence has grown into a rod of wickedness. None of them shall remain, none of their multitude, none of their moaning, nor anything eminent among them." 
Ezekiel7:12 The time has come; the day has arrived. Let not the buyer be glad nor the seller mourn; for wrath is against all their multitude. 
Ezekiel7:13 Indeed, the seller will not return to himself what he sold as long as they both live; for the vision regarding all their multitude will not return empty, nor will any of them strengthen his life by his iniquity." 
Ezekiel7:14 ‘They have blown the trumpet and made everything ready, but no one is going to the battle, for My wrath is against all their multitude." 
Ezekiel7:15 The sword is outside, and the plague and the famine are inside. He who is in the field will die by the sword; famine and the plague will also devour those in the city." 
Ezekiel7:16 Even when their survivors escape, they will be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them moaning, each over his own iniquity." 
Ezekiel7:17 All hands will hang limp, and all knees will become like water." 
Ezekiel7:18 They will gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror will cover them; and shame will be on all faces and baldness on all their heads." 
Ezekiel7:19 They will throw their silver into the streets, and their gold will become an impure thing; their silver and their gold will not be able to deliver them in the day of the fury of Yahweh. They cannot satisfy their soul, nor can they fill their stomachs, for their iniquity has become an occasion of stumbling." 
Ezekiel7:20 They transformed the beauty of His ornaments into pride, and they made the images of their abominations and their detestable things with it; therefore I will make it an impure thing to them." 
Ezekiel7:21 I will give it into the hands of the foreigners as plunder and to the wicked of the earth as spoil, and they will profane it." 
Ezekiel7:22 I will also turn My face from them, and they will profane My secret place; then robbers will enter and profane it." 
Ezekiel7:23 ‘Make the chain, for the land is full of judgments that promote bloodshed, and the city is full of violence." 
Ezekiel7:24 Therefore, I will bring the most evil of the nations, and they will possess their houses. I will also make the pride of the strong ones cease, and their holy places will be profaned." 
Ezekiel7:25 Anguish has come, and they will seek peace, but there will be none." 
Ezekiel7:26 Disaster will come upon disaster, and report will be added to report; then they will seek a vision from a prophet, but the law will be lost from the priest and counsel from the elders." 
Ezekiel7:27 The king will mourn, the prince will be clothed with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land will be dismayed. According to their way I will deal with them, and by their judgments I will judge them. And they will know that I am Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel8:1 Now it happened in the sixth year, on the fifth day of the sixth month, as I was sitting in my house with the elders of Judah sitting before me, that the hand of Lord Yahweh fell on me there." 
Ezekiel8:2 Then I looked, and behold, a likeness as the appearance of one on fire; from His loins and downward there was the appearance of fire, and from His loins and upward the appearance of brightness, like the gleam of glowing metal." 
Ezekiel8:3 He sent forth the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head; and the Spirit lifted me up between earth and heaven and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the north gate of the inner court, where the seat of the figure of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy, was located." 
Ezekiel8:4 And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, like the appearance which I saw in the plain." 
Ezekiel8:5 Then He said to me, “Son of man, raise your eyes now toward the north.” So I raised my eyes toward the north, and behold, to the north of the altar gate was this figure of jealousy at the entrance." 
Ezekiel8:6 And He said to me, “Son of man, are you seeing what they are doing, the great abominations which the house of Israel is doing here, so that I would be far from My sanctuary? But yet you will see still greater abominations.”" 
Ezekiel8:7 Then He brought me to the entrance of the court, and when I looked, behold, a hole in the wall." 
Ezekiel8:8 He said to me, “Son of man, now dig through the wall.” So I dug through the wall, and behold, an entrance." 
Ezekiel8:9 And He said to me, “Go in and see the evil abominations that they are doing here.”" 
Ezekiel8:10 So I entered and looked, and behold, every form of creeping things and beasts and detestable things, with all the idols of the house of Israel, were carved on the wall all around." 
Ezekiel8:11 Standing in front of them were seventy elders of the house of Israel, with Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan standing among them, each man with his censer in his hand and the fragrance of the cloud of incense rising." 
Ezekiel8:12 Then He said to me, “Son of man, do you see what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, each man in the room of his carved images? For they say, ‘Yahweh does not see us; Yahweh has forsaken the land.’”" 
Ezekiel8:13 And He said to me, “Yet you will see still greater abominations which they are doing.”" 
Ezekiel8:14 Then He brought me to the entrance of the gate of the house of Yahweh which was toward the north; and behold, women were sitting there weeping for Tammuz." 
Ezekiel8:15 He said to me, “Do you see this, son of man? Yet you will see still greater abominations than these.”" 
Ezekiel8:16 Then He brought me into the inner court of the house of Yahweh. And behold, at the entrance to the temple of Yahweh, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men with their backs to the temple of Yahweh and their faces toward the east; and they were prostrating themselves eastward toward the sun." 
Ezekiel8:17 He said to me, “Do you see this, son of man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to do the abominations which they have done here, that they have filled the land with violence and provoked Me to anger still more? For behold, they are sending forth the twig to their nose." 
Ezekiel8:18 Therefore, I also will do this in wrath: My eye will have no pity, nor will I spare; and they will cry in My ears with a loud voice, yet I will not listen to them.”" 
Ezekiel9:1 Then He cried out in my hearing with a loud voice saying, “Draw near, O executioners of the city, each with his destroying weapon in his hand.”" 
Ezekiel9:2 And behold, six men were coming from the direction of the upper gate which faces north, each with his shattering weapon in his hand; and among them was a certain man clothed in linen with a scribe’s case at his loins. And they went in and stood beside the bronze altar." 
Ezekiel9:3 Then the glory of the God of Israel went up from the cherub on which it had been, to the threshold of the house of Yahweh. And He called to the man clothed in linen at whose loins was the scribe’s case." 
Ezekiel9:4 Yahweh said to him, “Go through the midst of the city, even through the midst of Jerusalem, and put a mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and groan over all the abominations which are being done in its midst.”" 
Ezekiel9:5 But to the others He said in my hearing, “Go through the city after him and strike; do not let your eye have pity and do not spare." 
Ezekiel9:6 Kill to utter destruction old men, chosen men, virgins, little ones, and women, but do not touch any man on whom is the mark; and you shall start from My sanctuary.” So they started with the elders who were before the house." 
Ezekiel9:7 And He said to them, “Defile the house and fill the courts with the slain. Go out!” Thus they went out and struck down the people in the city." 
Ezekiel9:8 Now it happened as they were striking the people and I alone remained, that I fell on my face and cried out and said, “Alas, Lord Yahweh! Are You destroying the whole remnant of Israel by pouring out Your wrath on Jerusalem?”" 
Ezekiel9:9 Then He said to me, “The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is very, very great, and the land is filled with bloodshed, and the city is full of perversion; for they say, ‘Yahweh has forsaken the land, and Yahweh does not see!’" 
Ezekiel9:10 But as for Me, My eye will have no pity, nor will I spare, but I will put their way upon their heads.”" 
Ezekiel9:11 Then behold, the man clothed in linen at whose loins was the scribe’s case responded with a word, saying, “I have done just as You have commanded me.”" 
Ezekiel10:1 Then I looked, and behold, in the expanse that was over the heads of the cherubim something like a sapphire stone, in appearance in the likeness of a throne, appeared above them." 
Ezekiel10:2 And He spoke to the man clothed in linen and said, “Enter between the whirling wheels under the cherubim and fill your hands with coals of fire from between the cherubim and scatter them over the city.” And he entered in my sight." 
Ezekiel10:3 Now the cherubim were standing on the right side of the house when the man entered, and the cloud filled the inner court." 
Ezekiel10:4 Then the glory of Yahweh rose up from the cherub to the threshold of the house, and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was filled with the brightness of the glory of Yahweh." 
Ezekiel10:5 Moreover, the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard as far as the outer court, like the voice of God Almighty when He speaks." 
Ezekiel10:6 Now it happened that when He commanded the man clothed in linen, saying, “Take fire from between the whirling wheels, from between the cherubim,” he entered and stood beside a wheel." 
Ezekiel10:7 Then the cherub sent forth his hand from between the cherubim to the fire which was between the cherubim, took some up, and put it into the hands of the one clothed in linen, who took it and went out." 
Ezekiel10:8 And the cherubim appeared to have the form of a man’s hand under their wings. 
Ezekiel10:9 Then I looked, and behold, four wheels beside the cherubim, one wheel beside each cherub; and the appearance of the wheels was like the gleam of a Tarshish stone." 
Ezekiel10:10 As for their appearance, all four of them had the same likeness, as if one wheel were within another wheel." 
Ezekiel10:11 As they went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went; but they went in the direction which they faced, without turning as they went." 
Ezekiel10:12 And their whole body, their backs, their hands, their wings, and the wheels were full of eyes all around, the wheels belonging to all four of them." 
Ezekiel10:13 The wheels were called in my hearing, the whirling wheels." 
Ezekiel10:14 And each one had four faces. The first face was the face of a cherub, the second face was the face of a man, the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle." 
Ezekiel10:15 Then the cherubim rose up. They are the living creatures that I saw by the river Chebar. 
Ezekiel10:16 Now as the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them; also when the cherubim lifted up their wings to rise from the ground, the wheels would not turn from beside them." 
Ezekiel10:17 When the cherubim stood still, the wheels would stand still; and when they rose up, the wheels would rise with them, for the spirit of the living creatures was in them." 
Ezekiel10:18 Then the glory of Yahweh departed from the threshold of the house and stood over the cherubim. 
Ezekiel10:19 When the cherubim departed, they lifted their wings and rose up from the earth in my sight with the wheels beside them; and they stood still at the entrance of the east gate of the house of Yahweh, and the glory of the God of Israel hovered over them." 
Ezekiel10:20 These are the living creatures that I saw beneath the God of Israel by the river Chebar; so I knew that they were cherubim. 
Ezekiel10:21 Each one had four faces and each one four wings, and beneath their wings was the likeness of human hands." 
Ezekiel10:22 As for the likeness of their faces, they were the same faces whose appearance I had seen by the river Chebar. Each one went straight ahead." 
Ezekiel11:1 Moreover, the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the house of Yahweh which faced eastward. And behold, at the entrance of the gate, there were twenty-five men, and I saw among them Jaazaniah son of Azzur and Pelatiah son of Benaiah, officials of the people." 
Ezekiel11:2 He said to me, “Son of man, these are the men who devise wickedness and give evil counsel in this city," 
Ezekiel11:3 who say, ‘The time is not near to build houses. This city is the pot, and we are the flesh.’" 
Ezekiel11:4 Therefore, prophesy against them, son of man, prophesy!”" 
Ezekiel11:5 Then the Spirit of Yahweh fell upon me, and He said to me, “Say, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “So you say, house of Israel, for I know what comes up in your spirit." 
Ezekiel11:6 You have multiplied your slain in this city, and you have filled its streets with them.”" 
Ezekiel11:7 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, “Your slain whom you have laid in the midst of the city are the flesh, and this city is the pot; but I will bring you out of it." 
Ezekiel11:8 You have feared a sword; so a sword I will bring upon you,” Lord Yahweh declares." 
Ezekiel11:9 “And I will bring you out of the midst of the city and give you into the hands of strangers and execute judgments against you. 
Ezekiel11:10 You will fall by the sword. I will judge you to the border of Israel; so you shall know that I am Yahweh. 
Ezekiel11:11 This city will not be a pot for you, nor will you be flesh in the midst of it, but I will judge you to the border of Israel." 
Ezekiel11:12 Thus you will know that I am Yahweh; for you have not walked in My statutes, nor have you executed My judgments, but have executed according to the judgments of the nations around you.”’”" 
Ezekiel11:13 Now it happened as I prophesied, that Pelatiah son of Benaiah died. Then I fell on my face and cried out with a loud voice and said, “Alas, Lord Yahweh! Will You bring the remnant of Israel to complete destruction?”" 
Ezekiel11:14 Then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel11:15 “Son of man, your brothers, your relatives, your fellow exiles, and the whole house of Israel, all of them, are those to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, ‘Go far from Yahweh; this land has been given to us as a possession.’" 
Ezekiel11:16 Therefore say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Though I had removed them far away among the nations, and though I had scattered them among the countries, yet I was a sanctuary for them a little while in the countries where they had gone.”’" 
Ezekiel11:17 Therefore say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you out of the countries among which you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.”’" 
Ezekiel11:18 When they come there, they will remove all its detestable things and all its abominations from it." 
Ezekiel11:19 And I will give them one heart and give within them a new spirit. And I will take the heart of stone out of their flesh and give them a heart of flesh," 
Ezekiel11:20 that they may walk in My statutes and keep My judgments and do them. Then they will be My people, and I shall be their God." 
Ezekiel11:21 But as for those whose hearts walk after their detestable things and abominations, I will give what is due for their way on their heads,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel11:22 Then the cherubim lifted up their wings with the wheels beside them, and the glory of the God of Israel hovered over them." 
Ezekiel11:23 The glory of Yahweh went up from the midst of the city and stood over the mountain which is east of the city. 
Ezekiel11:24 Now the Spirit lifted me up and brought me in a vision by the Spirit of God to the exiles in Chaldea. So the vision that I had seen went up and away from me. 
Ezekiel11:25 Then I told the exiles all the things that Yahweh had shown me. 
Ezekiel12:1 Then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:2 “Son of man, you live in the midst of the rebellious house, who have eyes to see but do not see, ears to hear but do not hear; for they are a rebellious house." 
Ezekiel12:3 Now as for you, son of man, prepare for yourself baggage for exile and go into exile by day in their sight; even go into exile from your place to another place in their sight. Perhaps they will see, though they are a rebellious house." 
Ezekiel12:4 Bring your baggage out by day in their sight, as baggage for exile. Then you will go out at evening in their sight, as those going into exile." 
Ezekiel12:5 In their sight, dig a hole through the wall and go out through it." 
Ezekiel12:6 In their sight, carry the baggage on your shoulder and bring it out in the dark. You shall cover your face so that you cannot see the land, for I have set you as a wondrous sign to the house of Israel.”" 
Ezekiel12:7 I did so, as I had been commanded. By day I brought out my baggage like the baggage of an exile. Then in the evening I dug through the wall with my hands; I went out in the dark and carried the baggage on my shoulder in their sight." 
Ezekiel12:8 And in the morning the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:9 “Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said to you, ‘What are you doing?’" 
Ezekiel12:10 Say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “This oracle concerns the prince in Jerusalem as well as all the house of Israel who are in it.”’" 
Ezekiel12:11 Say, ‘I am a wondrous sign to you. As I have done, so it will be done to them; they will go into exile, into captivity.’" 
Ezekiel12:12 The prince who is among them will carry his baggage on his shoulder in the dark and go out. They will dig a hole through the wall to bring it out. He will cover his face so that he cannot see the land with his eyes. 
Ezekiel12:13 I will also spread My net over him, and he will be caught in My snare. And I will bring him to Babylon in the land of the Chaldeans; yet he will not see it, though he will die there." 
Ezekiel12:14 And I will scatter to every wind all who are around him, his helpers and all his troops; and I will draw out a sword after them." 
Ezekiel12:15 So they will know that I am Yahweh when I scatter them among the nations and spread them among the countries. 
Ezekiel12:16 But I will spare a few of them from sword, famine, and pestilence that they may recount all their abominations among the nations where they go, and may know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel12:17 Moreover, the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel12:18 “Son of man, you shall eat your bread with trembling and drink your water with quivering and anxiety." 
Ezekiel12:19 Then you will say to the people of the land, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem in the land of Israel, “They will eat their bread with anxiety and drink their water with desolation because their very soil will be made desolate of its fullness on account of the violence of all who inhabit it." 
Ezekiel12:20 The inhabited cities will be laid waste, and the land will be a desolation. So you will know that I am Yahweh.”’”" 
Ezekiel12:21 Then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:22 “Son of man, what is this proverb you people have concerning the land of Israel, saying, ‘The days are long, and every vision fails’?" 
Ezekiel12:23 Therefore say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “I will make this proverb cease so that they will no longer use it as a proverb in Israel.” But speak to them, “The days draw near as well as the fulfillment of every vision." 
Ezekiel12:24 For there will no longer be any worthless vision or flattering divination in the midst of the house of Israel. 
Ezekiel12:25 For I, Yahweh, will speak, and whatever word I speak will be done. It will no longer be delayed, for in your days, O rebellious house, I will speak the word and do it,” declares Lord Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel12:26 Furthermore, the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:27 “Son of man, behold, the house of Israel is saying, ‘The vision that he beholds is for many years from now, and he prophesies of times far off.’" 
Ezekiel12:28 Therefore say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “None of My words will be delayed any longer. Whatever word I speak will be done,”’” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel13:1 Then the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel13:2 “Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy, and say to those who prophesy from their own heart, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh!" 
Ezekiel13:3 Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Woe to the wickedly foolish prophets who are walking after their own spirit and have seen nothing." 
Ezekiel13:4 O Israel, your prophets have been like foxes among waste places." 
Ezekiel13:5 You have not gone up into the breaches, nor did you build the wall around the house of Israel to stand in the battle on the day of Yahweh." 
Ezekiel13:6 They behold worthlessness and lying divination who are saying, ‘Yahweh declares,’ when Yahweh has not sent them; yet they wait for the establishing of their word." 
Ezekiel13:7 Did you not see a worthless vision and speak a lying divination when you said, ‘Yahweh declares,’ but it is not I who have spoken?”’”" 
Ezekiel13:8 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because you have spoken worthlessness and beheld a lie, therefore behold, I am against you,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel13:9 “So My hand will be against the prophets who see worthless visions and utter lying divinations. They will not be in the council of My people, nor will they be written down in the register of the house of Israel, nor will they enter the land of Israel, that you may know that I am Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel13:10 It is definitely because they have misled My people by saying, ‘Peace!’ when there is no peace. And when anyone builds a wall, behold, they plaster it over with whitewash;" 
Ezekiel13:11 so tell those who plaster it over with whitewash that it will fall. A flooding rain will come, and you, O hailstones, will fall; and a stormy wind will break out." 
Ezekiel13:12 Now behold, the wall will fall. Will it then not be said to you, ‘Where is the plaster with which you plastered it?’”" 
Ezekiel13:13 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, “I will make a stormy wind break out in My wrath. There will also be in My anger a flooding rain and hailstones to consume it in wrath." 
Ezekiel13:14 So I will pull down the wall which you plastered over with whitewash and bring it down to the ground, so that its foundation is laid bare; and it will fall, and you will be consumed in its midst. And you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel13:15 Thus I will spend My wrath on the wall and on those who have plastered it over with whitewash; and I will say to you, ‘The wall is gone, and its plasterers are gone—" 
Ezekiel13:16 the prophets of Israel who prophesy to Jerusalem and who see visions of peace for her when there is no peace,’ declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel13:17 “Now as for you, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people who are prophesying from their own heart. Prophesy against them" 
Ezekiel13:18 and say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Woe to the women who sew magic bands on all wrists and make veils for the heads of persons of every stature to hunt down souls! Will you hunt down My people’s souls, but preserve your own souls?" 
Ezekiel13:19 For handfuls of barley and fragments of bread, you have profaned Me to My people to put to death souls who should not die and to keep other souls alive who should not live, by your lying to My people who listen to lies.”’”" 
Ezekiel13:20 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I am against your magic bands by which you hunt souls there as birds, and I will tear them from your arms; and I will let their souls go, the very souls whom you hunt as birds." 
Ezekiel13:21 I will also tear off your veils and deliver My people from your hands, and they will no longer be in your hands to be hunted; and you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel13:22 Because you disheartened the righteous with falsehood when I did not cause him grief, but have strengthened the hands of the wicked not to turn from his evil way and preserve his life," 
Ezekiel13:23 therefore, you women will no longer see worthless visions or practice divination, and I will deliver My people out of your hand. Thus you will know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel14:1 Then some elders of Israel came to me and sat down before me. 
Ezekiel14:2 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel14:3 “Son of man, these men have set up their idols in their hearts and have put right before their faces the stumbling block of their iniquity. Should I be inquired by them at all?" 
Ezekiel14:4 Therefore speak to them and tell them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Any man of the house of Israel who sets up his idols in his heart, puts right before his face the stumbling block of his iniquity, and then comes to the prophet, I Yahweh will be brought to give him an answer in light of it, in light of the multitude of his idols," 
Ezekiel14:5 in order to seize the house of Israel by their heart, those who are estranged from Me through all their idols.”’" 
Ezekiel14:6 “Therefore say to the house of Israel, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Turn back and turn away from your idols and turn your faces away from all your abominations." 
Ezekiel14:7 For anyone of the house of Israel or of the sojourners who sojourn in Israel who separates himself from Me, sets up his idols in his heart, puts right before his face the stumbling block of his iniquity, and then comes to the prophet to inquire of Me for himself, I, Yahweh, will be brought to answer him in My own person." 
Ezekiel14:8 I will set My face against that man and make him a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him off from among My people. So you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel14:9 “But if the prophet is enticed to speak a word, it is I, Yahweh, who have enticed that prophet, and I will stretch out My hand against him and destroy him from among My people Israel." 
Ezekiel14:10 They will bear the punishment of their iniquity; as the iniquity of the inquirer is, so the iniquity of the prophet will be," 
Ezekiel14:11 in order that the house of Israel may no longer wander from Me and no longer defile themselves with all their transgressions. Thus they will be My people, and I shall be their God,”’ declares Lord Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel14:12 Then the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel14:13 “Son of man, if a country sins against Me by committing unfaithfulness, and I stretch out My hand against it, break its staff of bread, send famine against it, and cut off from it both man and beast," 
Ezekiel14:14 even though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job were in its midst, by their own righteousness they could only deliver themselves,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel14:14 even though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job were in its midst, by their own righteousness they could only deliver themselves,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel14:14 even though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job were in its midst, by their own righteousness they could only deliver themselves,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel14:15 “If I were to cause wild beasts to pass through the land and they bereaved it of children and it became desolate so that no one would pass through it because of the beasts," 
Ezekiel14:16 though these three men were in its midst, as I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “they could not deliver either their sons or their daughters. They alone would be delivered, but the country would become desolate." 
Ezekiel14:17 Or if I should bring a sword on that country and say, ‘Let the sword pass through the country and cut off man and beast from it,’" 
Ezekiel14:18 even though these three men were in its midst, as I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “they could not deliver either their sons or their daughters, but they alone would be delivered." 
Ezekiel14:19 Or if I should send a plague against that country and pour out My wrath in blood on it to cut off man and beast from it," 
Ezekiel14:20 even though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in its midst, as I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “they could not deliver either their son or their daughter. They would deliver only themselves by their righteousness.”" 
Ezekiel14:20 even though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in its midst, as I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “they could not deliver either their son or their daughter. They would deliver only themselves by their righteousness.”" 
Ezekiel14:20 even though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in its midst, as I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “they could not deliver either their son or their daughter. They would deliver only themselves by their righteousness.”" 
Ezekiel14:21 For thus says Lord Yahweh, “How much more when I send My four calamitous judgments against Jerusalem: sword, famine, wild beasts, and plague to cut off man and beast from it!" 
Ezekiel14:22 Yet, behold, survivors will be left in it who will be brought out, both sons and daughters. Behold, they are going to come forth to you, and you will see their way and actions; then you will be comforted for the calamity which I have brought against Jerusalem for everything which I have brought upon it." 
Ezekiel14:23 Then they will comfort you when you see their way and actions, so you will know that I have not done in vain all that I did to it,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel15:1 Then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel15:2 “Son of man, how is the wood of the vine better than any wood of a branch which is among the trees of the forest?" 
Ezekiel15:3 Can wood be taken from it to make anything, or can men take a peg from it on which to hang any vessel?" 
Ezekiel15:4 If it has been put into the fire for fuel, and the fire has consumed both of its ends, and its middle part has been charred, is it then useful for anything?" 
Ezekiel15:5 Behold, while it is intact, it is not made into anything. How much less, when the fire has consumed it and it is charred, can it still be made into anything!" 
Ezekiel15:6 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘As the wood of the vine among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel, so have I given up the inhabitants of Jerusalem;" 
Ezekiel15:7 and I will give My face to be against them. Though they have come out of the fire, yet the fire will consume them. Then you will know that I am Yahweh, when I set My face against them." 
Ezekiel15:8 Thus I will give over the land to desolation because they have acted unfaithfully,’” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel16:1 Then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel16:2 “Son of man, make known to Jerusalem her abominations" 
Ezekiel16:3 and say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh to Jerusalem, “Your origin and your birth are from the land of the Canaanite; your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite." 
Ezekiel16:4 As for your birth, on the day you were born your navel cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water for cleansing; you were not rubbed with salt or even wrapped in cloths." 
Ezekiel16:5 No eye had pity on you to do any of these things for you, to have compassion on you. Rather you were thrown out into the open field, for your soul was abhorred on the day you were born." 
Ezekiel16:6 “Then I passed by you and saw you squirming in your blood. So I said to you while you were in your blood, ‘Live!’ Indeed I said to you while you were in your blood, ‘Live!’" 
Ezekiel16:7 I made you numerous like plants of the field. Then you grew up, became tall, and came into the age for fine ornaments; your breasts were formed, and your hair had grown. Yet you were naked and bare." 
Ezekiel16:8 “Then I passed by you and saw you, and behold, you were at the time for love; so I spread My skirt over you and covered your nakedness. I also swore to you and entered into a covenant with you so that you became Mine,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel16:9 “Then I washed you with water, rinsed your blood off from you, and anointed you with oil." 
Ezekiel16:10 I also clothed you with embroidered cloth and put sandals of porpoise skin on your feet; and I wrapped you with fine linen and covered you with silk. 
Ezekiel16:11 I also adorned you with ornaments and put bracelets on your hands and a necklace around your neck. 
Ezekiel16:12 I also put a ring in your nose, earrings in your ears, and a splendid crown on your head." 
Ezekiel16:13 Thus you were adorned with gold and silver, and your clothing was of fine linen, silk, and embroidered cloth. You ate fine flour, honey, and oil; so you were exceedingly beautiful and advanced to royalty." 
Ezekiel16:14 Then your name went forth among the nations on account of your beauty, for it was perfect because of My majesty which I set on you,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel16:15 “But you trusted in your beauty and played the harlot because of your name, and you poured out your harlotries on every passer-by who might be willing." 
Ezekiel16:16 You took some of your clothes, made for yourself high places of various colors, and played the harlot on them, which should never come about nor happen." 
Ezekiel16:17 You also took your splendid jewelry made of My gold and of My silver, which I had given you, and made for yourself male images that you might play the harlot with them." 
Ezekiel16:18 Then you took your embroidered cloth and covered them and gave My oil and My incense before them. 
Ezekiel16:19 Also My bread which I gave you, fine flour, oil, and honey with which I had you eat, you gave before them for a soothing aroma; so it happened,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel16:20 “Moreover, you took your sons and daughters, whom you had borne to Me, and sacrificed them to idols to be devoured. Were your harlotries so small a matter?" 
Ezekiel16:21 You slaughtered My children and gave them up to idols by causing them to pass through the fire. 
Ezekiel16:22 Besides all your abominations and harlotries you did not remember the days of your youth, when you were naked and bare—you were squirming in your blood!" 
Ezekiel16:23 “Now it happened after all your evil—‘Woe, woe to you!’ declares Lord Yahweh—" 
Ezekiel16:24 that you built yourself a shrine and made yourself a high place in every square. 
Ezekiel16:25 You built yourself a high place at the head of every street and made your beauty abominable, and you spread your legs to every passer-by to multiply your harlotry." 
Ezekiel16:26 You also played the harlot with the Egyptians, your lustful neighbors, and you multiplied your harlotry to provoke Me to anger." 
Ezekiel16:27 Behold now, I have stretched out My hand against you and cut off your rations. And I gave you up to the desire of those who hate you, the daughters of the Philistines, who are ashamed of your lewd way." 
Ezekiel16:28 Moreover, you played the harlot with the Assyrians because you were not satisfied; you played the harlot with them and still were not satisfied." 
Ezekiel16:29 You also multiplied your harlotry with the land of merchants, Chaldea, yet even with this you were not satisfied.”’”" 
Ezekiel16:30 “How languishing is your heart,” declares Lord Yahweh, “while you do all these things, the actions of a bold-faced harlot." 
Ezekiel16:31 When you built your shrine at the head of every way and made your high place in every square, in disdaining your earnings, you were not like a harlot." 
Ezekiel16:32 You adulteress wife, who takes strangers instead of her husband!" 
Ezekiel16:33 Men give gifts to all harlots, but you give your gifts to all your lovers to bribe them to come to you from all around for your harlotries." 
Ezekiel16:34 Thus you are the opposite of those women in your harlotries, in that no one plays the harlot as you do, because you give away your earnings and no earnings are given to you; thus you are the opposite.”" 
Ezekiel16:35 Therefore, O harlot, hear the word of Yahweh." 
Ezekiel16:36 Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because your lewdness was poured out and your nakedness uncovered through your harlotries with your lovers and with all your abominable idols, and because of the blood of your sons which you gave to idols," 
Ezekiel16:37 therefore, behold, I will gather all your lovers with whom you took pleasure, even all those whom you loved and all those whom you hated. So I will gather them against you from all around and uncover your nakedness to them that they may see all your nakedness." 
Ezekiel16:38 Thus I will judge you like women who commit adultery or shed blood are judged; and I will bring on you the blood of wrath and jealousy. 
Ezekiel16:39 I will also give you into the hands of your lovers, and they will pull down your shrines, tear down your high places, strip you of your clothing, take away your splendid jewelry, and will leave you naked and bare." 
Ezekiel16:40 They will bring up an assembly against you, and they will stone you and cut you to pieces with their swords." 
Ezekiel16:41 They will burn your houses with fire and execute judgments on you in the sight of many women. Then I will make you cease from playing the harlot, and you will also no longer give your earnings to your lovers." 
Ezekiel16:42 So I will cause My wrath against you to be at rest, and My jealousy will depart from you, and I will be quiet, and I will not be provoked anymore." 
Ezekiel16:43 Because you have not remembered the days of your youth but have enraged Me by all these things, behold, I in turn will bring your way down on your own head,” declares Lord Yahweh, “so that you will not commit this lewdness on top of all your other abominations." 
Ezekiel16:44 “Behold, everyone who quotes proverbs will quote this proverb concerning you, saying, ‘Like mother, like daughter.’" 
Ezekiel16:45 You are the daughter of your mother, who loathed her husband and children. You are also the sister of your sisters, who loathed their husbands and children. Your mother was a Hittite and your father an Amorite." 
Ezekiel16:46 Now your older sister is Samaria, who lives north of you with her daughters; and your younger sister, who lives south of you, is Sodom with her daughters." 
Ezekiel16:47 Yet you have not merely walked in their ways or done according to their abominations; but, as if that were too little, you acted more corruptly in all your ways than they." 
Ezekiel16:48 As I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “Sodom your sister and her daughters have not done as you and your daughters have done." 
Ezekiel16:49 Behold, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom: she and her daughters had lofty pride, abundant food, and quiet ease, but she did not strengthen the hand of the afflicted and needy." 
Ezekiel16:50 Then they were haughty and committed abominations before Me. So I removed them when I saw it. 
Ezekiel16:51 Furthermore, Samaria did not commit half of your sins, for you have multiplied your abominations more than they. Thus you have made your sisters appear righteous by all your abominations which you have done." 
Ezekiel16:52 Also bear your dishonor in that you have made judgment favorable for your sisters. Because of your sins in which you acted more abominably than they, they are more in the right than you. Yes, be also ashamed and bear your dishonor, in that you made your sisters appear righteous." 
Ezekiel16:53 “Nevertheless, I will return their captivity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, the captivity of Samaria and her daughters, and along with them your own captivity," 
Ezekiel16:54 in order that you may bear your dishonor and feel dishonor for all that you have done when you become a comfort to them. 
Ezekiel16:55 Your sisters, Sodom with her daughters and Samaria with her daughters, will return to their former state, and you with your daughters will also return to your former state." 
Ezekiel16:56 As the name of your sister Sodom was not heard in your mouth in your day of lofty pride," 
Ezekiel16:57 before your wickedness was uncovered, so now you have become the reproach of the daughters of Edom and of all who are around her, of the daughters of the Philistines—those all around you who despise you." 
Ezekiel16:58 You have borne the penalty of your lewdness and abominations,” declares Yahweh." 
Ezekiel16:59 For thus says Lord Yahweh, “I will also do with you as you have done, you who have despised the oath by breaking the covenant." 
Ezekiel16:60 “Nevertheless, I Myself will remember My covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish an everlasting covenant with you." 
Ezekiel16:61 Then you will remember your ways and feel dishonor when you receive your sisters, both your older and your younger; and I will give them to you as daughters, but not because of your covenant." 
Ezekiel16:62 Thus I will establish My covenant with you, and you shall know that I am Yahweh," 
Ezekiel16:63 so that you may remember and be ashamed and never open your mouth anymore because of your dishonor, when I have atoned for you for all that you have done,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel17:1 Now the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel17:2 “Son of man, propound a riddle and speak a parable to the house of Israel," 
Ezekiel17:3 and you will say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “A great eagle with great wings, long pinions, and a full plumage of many colors came to Lebanon and took away the top of the cedar." 
Ezekiel17:4 He plucked off the topmost of its young twigs and brought it to a land of merchants; he set it in a city of traders. 
Ezekiel17:5 He also took some of the seed of the land and planted it in a field fit for seed. He placed it beside abundant waters; he set it like a willow. 
Ezekiel17:6 Then it sprouted and became a low, spreading vine with its foliage turned toward him, but its roots remained under it. So it became a vine and yielded shoots and sent out branches." 
Ezekiel17:7 “But there was another great eagle with great wings and much plumage; and behold, this vine bent its roots toward him and sent out its foliage toward him from the beds where it was planted, that he might water it." 
Ezekiel17:8 It was planted in a good field beside abundant waters, that it might yield branches and bear fruit and become a majestic vine.”’" 
Ezekiel17:9 Say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Will it succeed? Will he not pull up its roots and cut off its fruit, so that it dries up—so that all its sprouting leaves dry up? And neither by great strength nor by many people can it be raised from its roots again." 
Ezekiel17:10 And behold, though it is planted, will it succeed? Will it not completely dry up as soon as the east wind strikes it—dry up on the beds where it sprouted?”’”" 
Ezekiel17:11 Moreover, the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel17:12 “Say now to the rebellious house, ‘Do you not know what these things mean?’ Say, ‘Behold, the king of Babylon came to Jerusalem, took its king and princes, and brought them to him in Babylon." 
Ezekiel17:13 He took one of the royal seed and cut a covenant with him and brought him under oath. He also took away the dominant one of the land," 
Ezekiel17:14 that the kingdom might become lowly, not lifting itself up, but keeping his covenant that it might continue." 
Ezekiel17:15 But he rebelled against him by sending his messengers to Egypt that they might give him horses and many troops. Will he succeed? Will he who does such things escape? Can he indeed break the covenant and escape? 
Ezekiel17:16 As I live,’ declares Lord Yahweh, ‘Surely in the country of the king who made him king, whose oath he despised and whose covenant he broke, in Babylon he shall die." 
Ezekiel17:17 And Pharaoh with his mighty military force and great assembly will not help him in the war, when they cast up ramps and build siege walls to cut off many lives." 
Ezekiel17:18 Now he despised the oath by breaking the covenant, and behold, he pledged his allegiance, yet did all these things; he shall not escape.’”" 
Ezekiel17:19 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, “As I live, surely My oath which he despised and My covenant which he broke, I will put on his head." 
Ezekiel17:20 I will spread My net over him, and he will be caught in My snare. Then I will bring him to Babylon and enter into judgment with him there regarding the unfaithful act which he has committed against Me." 
Ezekiel17:21 All the choice men in all his troops will fall by the sword, and the remnant will be scattered to every wind; and you will know that I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel17:22 Thus says Lord Yahweh, “I will also take a sprig from the lofty top of the cedar and set it out; I will pluck from the topmost of its young twigs a tender one, and I will plant it on an exalted and lofty mountain." 
Ezekiel17:23 On the high mountain of Israel I will plant it, that it may lift up boughs and yield fruit and become a majestic cedar. And birds of every kind will dwell under it; they will dwell in the shade of its branches." 
Ezekiel17:24 And all the trees of the field will know that I am Yahweh; I bring down the exalted tree, exalt the low tree, dry up the green tree, and make the dry tree flourish. I am Yahweh; I have spoken, and I will do it.”" 
Ezekiel18:1 Then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel18:2 “What do you mean by using this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying, ‘The fathers eat the sour grapes, But the children’s teeth are set on edge’?" 
Ezekiel18:3 As I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “you are surely not going to use this proverb in Israel anymore." 
Ezekiel18:4 Behold, all souls are Mine; the soul of the father as well as the soul of the son is Mine. The soul who sins will die." 
Ezekiel18:5 “But if a man is righteous and does justice and righteousness," 
Ezekiel18:6 and does not eat at the mountain shrines or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, or defile his neighbor’s wife or approach a woman during her menstrual period—" 
Ezekiel18:7 if a man does not mistreat anyone, but returns to the debtor his pledge, does not commit robbery, but gives his bread to the hungry and covers the naked with clothing," 
Ezekiel18:8 if he does not lend money on interest or take increase, if he turns his hand from injustice and does true justice between man and man," 
Ezekiel18:9 if he walks in My statutes and My judgments and is careful to do the truth—he is righteous and will surely live,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel18:10 “Then he may have a violent son who sheds blood and who does any of these things to a brother 
Ezekiel18:11 (though he himself did not do any of these things), that is, he even eats at the mountain shrines and defiles his neighbor’s wife;" 
Ezekiel18:12 he mistreats the afflicted and needy, commits robbery, does not return a pledge, but lifts up his eyes to the idols and does abominations;" 
Ezekiel18:13 he lends money on interest and takes increase; will he live? He will not live! He has done all these abominations; he will surely be put to death; his blood will be on himself. 
Ezekiel18:14 “Now behold, he has a son who has seen all his father’s sins which he has done. And he saw this but does not do likewise." 
Ezekiel18:15 He does not eat at the mountain shrines or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, or defile his neighbor’s wife" 
Ezekiel18:16 or mistreat anyone, or retain a pledge or commit robbery, but he gives his bread to the hungry and covers the naked with clothing;" 
Ezekiel18:17 he turns his hand away from the afflicted, does not take interest or increase, but does My judgments and walks in My statutes; he will not die for his father’s iniquity; he will surely live." 
Ezekiel18:18 As for his father, because he practiced extortion, robbed his brother, and did what was not good among his people, behold, he will die for his iniquity." 
Ezekiel18:19 “Yet you say, ‘Why should the son not bear the punishment for the father’s iniquity?’ But the son has done justice and righteousness and has kept all My statutes and done them. He shall surely live." 
Ezekiel18:20 The soul who sins will die. The son will not bear the iniquity of the father, nor will the father bear the iniquity of the son; the righteousness of the righteous will be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked will be upon himself." 
Ezekiel18:21 “But if the wicked man turns from all his sins which he has done and keeps all My statutes and does justice and righteousness, he shall surely live; he shall not die." 
Ezekiel18:22 All his transgressions which he has done will not be remembered against him; because of his righteousness which he has done, he will live." 
Ezekiel18:23 Do I have any pleasure in the death of the wicked,” declares Lord Yahweh, “is it not that he should turn from his ways and live?" 
Ezekiel18:24 “But when a righteous man turns away from his righteousness, does injustice, and does according to all the abominations that a wicked man does, will he live? All his righteous deeds which he has done will not be remembered for his unfaithfulness which he has committed and his sin which he has committed; for them he will die." 
Ezekiel18:25 Yet you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not right.’ Hear now, O house of Israel! Is My way not right? Is it not your ways that are not right?" 
Ezekiel18:26 When a righteous man turns away from his righteousness, does injustice, and dies because of it, for his injustice which he has done he will die." 
Ezekiel18:27 Again, when a wicked man turns away from his wickedness which he has done and does justice and righteousness, he will preserve his life." 
Ezekiel18:28 Again, he considered and turned away from all his transgressions which he had done; he shall surely live; he shall not die." 
Ezekiel18:29 But the house of Israel says, ‘The way of the Lord is not right.’ Are My ways not right, O house of Israel? Is it not your ways that are not right?" 
Ezekiel18:30 “Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, each according to his way,” declares Lord Yahweh. “Turn back and turn away from all your transgressions, so that iniquity may not become a stumbling block to you." 
Ezekiel18:31 Cast away from yourselves all your transgressions which you have committed and make yourselves a new heart and a new spirit! Now why will you die, O house of Israel?" 
Ezekiel18:32 For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone who dies,” declares Lord Yahweh. “Therefore, turn back and live.”" 
Ezekiel19:1 “As for you, take up a lamentation for the princes of Israel" 
Ezekiel19:2 and say, ‘What was your mother? A lioness among lions! She lay down among young lions; She reared her cubs." 
Ezekiel19:3 So she brought up one of her cubs; He became a lion, And he learned to tear his prey; He devoured men." 
Ezekiel19:4 Then nations heard about him; He was captured in their pit, And they brought him with hooks To the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel19:5 Then she saw, as she waited, That her hope was lost, So she took another of her cubs And made him a young lion." 
Ezekiel19:6 And he walked about among the lions; He became a young lion; He learned to tear his prey; He devoured men. 
Ezekiel19:7 He knew how to destroy their fortified towers And laid waste their cities; And the land was in desolation, as well as its fullness Because of the sound of his roaring." 
Ezekiel19:8 Then nations put themselves against him All around from their provinces, And they spread their net over him; He was captured in their pit." 
Ezekiel19:9 They put him in a cage with hooks And brought him to the king of Babylon; They brought him in hunting nets So that his voice would be heard no more On the mountains of Israel. 
Ezekiel19:10 Your mother was like a vine in your vineyard, Planted by the waters; It was fruitful and full of branches Because of abundant waters." 
Ezekiel19:11 And it had strong thick branches fit for scepters of rulers, And its height was exalted above the clouds So that it was seen in its exaltedness with the mass of its foliage." 
Ezekiel19:12 But it was uprooted in wrath; It was cast down to the ground; And the east wind dried up its fruit. Its strong thick branch was torn off So that it dried up; The fire consumed it. 
Ezekiel19:13 So now it is planted in the wilderness, In a dry and thirsty land." 
Ezekiel19:14 And fire has gone out from its thick branch; It has consumed its shoots and fruit, So that there is not in it a strong thick branch, A scepter to rule.’” This is a lamentation and has become a lamentation." 
Ezekiel20:1 Now it happened in the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth of the month, that some of the elders of Israel came to inquire of Yahweh and sat before me." 
Ezekiel20:2 And the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel20:3 “Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel and say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Do you come to inquire of Me? As I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “I will not be inquired of by you.”’" 
Ezekiel20:4 Will you judge them, will you judge them, son of man? Make them know the abominations of their fathers" 
Ezekiel20:5 and say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “On the day when I chose Israel and swore to the seed of the house of Jacob and made Myself known to them in the land of Egypt, when I swore to them, saying, I am Yahweh your God," 
Ezekiel20:6 on that day I swore to them, to bring them out from the land of Egypt into a land that I had selected for them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands." 
Ezekiel20:7 I said to them, ‘Cast away, each of you, the detestable things of his eyes, and do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt; I am Yahweh your God.’" 
Ezekiel20:8 But they rebelled against Me and were not willing to listen to Me; each one did not cast away the detestable things of their eyes, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I said I would pour out My wrath on them, to spend My anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel20:9 But I acted for the sake of My name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations among whom they lived, in whose sight I made Myself known to them by bringing them out of the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel20:10 So I took them out of the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness. 
Ezekiel20:11 I gave them My statutes and made them know My judgments, which, if a man does them, he will live by them." 
Ezekiel20:12 And I also gave them My sabbaths to be a sign between Me and them, that they might know that I am Yahweh who sanctifies them." 
Ezekiel20:13 But the house of Israel rebelled against Me in the wilderness. They did not walk in My statutes, and they rejected My judgments, which, if a man does them, he will live by them; and My sabbaths they greatly profaned. Then I said I would pour out My wrath on them in the wilderness, to completely destroy them." 
Ezekiel20:14 But I acted for the sake of My name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, before whose sight I had brought them out." 
Ezekiel20:15 Also I swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands," 
Ezekiel20:16 because they rejected My judgments, and as for My statutes, they did not walk in them; they even profaned My sabbaths, for their heart continually walked after their idols." 
Ezekiel20:17 Yet My eye had pity on them rather than bringing them to ruin, and I did not make of them a complete destruction in the wilderness." 
Ezekiel20:18 “I said to their children in the wilderness, ‘Do not walk in the statutes of your fathers and do not keep their judgments and do not defile yourselves with their idols." 
Ezekiel20:19 I am Yahweh your God; walk in My statutes and keep My judgments and do them. 
Ezekiel20:20 Keep My sabbaths holy; and they shall be a sign between Me and you, that you may know that I am Yahweh your God.’" 
Ezekiel20:21 But the children rebelled against Me; they did not walk in My statutes, nor were they careful to do My judgments, which, if a man does them, he will live by them; they profaned My sabbaths. So I said I would pour out My wrath on them, to spend My anger against them in the wilderness." 
Ezekiel20:22 But I turned back My hand and acted for the sake of My name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations in whose sight I had brought them out." 
Ezekiel20:23 Also I swore to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the nations and disperse them among the lands 
Ezekiel20:24 because they had not done My judgments, but had rejected My statutes and had profaned My sabbaths, and their eyes were going after the idols of their fathers." 
Ezekiel20:25 And I also gave them statutes that were not good and judgments by which they could not live; 
Ezekiel20:26 and I pronounced them unclean because of their gifts, in that they caused all their firstborn to pass through the fire so that I might make them desolate, in order that they might know that I am Yahweh.”’" 
Ezekiel20:27 “Therefore, son of man, speak to the house of Israel and say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Yet in this your fathers have blasphemed Me by acting unfaithfully against Me." 
Ezekiel20:28 Indeed, I brought them into the land which I swore to give to them, and they saw every high hill and every leafy tree, and they offered there their sacrifices, and there they gave the provocation of their offering. There also they made their soothing aroma, and there they poured out their drink offerings." 
Ezekiel20:29 Then I said to them, ‘What is the high place to which you are going?’ So its name is called Bamah to this day.”’" 
Ezekiel20:30 Therefore, say to the house of Israel, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Will you defile yourselves in the way of your fathers and play the harlot after their detestable things?" 
Ezekiel20:31 And when you offer your gifts, when you cause your sons to pass through the fire, you are defiling yourselves with all your idols to this day. And shall I be inquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “I will not be inquired of by you." 
Ezekiel20:32 And what comes upon your spirit will not happen, when you say: ‘We will be like the nations, like the families of the lands, to minister to wood and stone.’" 
Ezekiel20:33 “As I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “surely with a strong hand and with an outstretched arm and with wrath poured out, I shall be king over you." 
Ezekiel20:34 And I will bring you out from the peoples and gather you from the lands where you are scattered, with a strong hand and with an outstretched arm and with wrath poured out;" 
Ezekiel20:35 and I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there I will enter into judgment with you face to face." 
Ezekiel20:36 As I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will enter into judgment with you,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel20:37 “And I will make you pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant;" 
Ezekiel20:38 and I will purge from you the rebels and those who transgress against Me; I will bring them out of the land where they sojourn, but they will not enter the land of Israel. Thus you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel20:39 “As for you, O house of Israel,” thus says Lord Yahweh, “Go, serve everyone his idols; but after this you will surely listen to Me, and My holy name you will profane no longer with your gifts and with your idols." 
Ezekiel20:40 For on My holy mountain, on the high mountain of Israel,” declares Lord Yahweh, “there the whole house of Israel, all of them, will serve Me in the land; there I will accept them, and there I will seek your contributions and the choicest of your gifts, with all your holy things." 
Ezekiel20:41 As a soothing aroma I will accept you when I bring you out from the peoples and gather you from the lands where you are scattered; and I will prove Myself holy among you in the sight of the nations. 
Ezekiel20:42 And you will know that I am Yahweh, when I bring you onto the ground of Israel, into the land which I swore to give to your fathers." 
Ezekiel20:43 And there you will remember your ways and all your deeds with which you have defiled yourselves; and you will loathe yourselves to your own faces for all the evil things that you have done. 
Ezekiel20:44 Then you will know that I am Yahweh when I have dealt with you for My name’s sake, not according to your evil ways or according to your corrupt deeds, O house of Israel,” declares Lord Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel20:45 Now the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel20:46 “Son of man, set your face toward Teman and speak, dripping out words, against the south and prophesy against the forest land of the Negev" 
Ezekiel20:47 and say to the forest of the Negev, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh: thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I am about to kindle a fire in you, and it will consume every green tree in you, as well as every dry tree; the blazing flame will not be quenched, and the whole surface from south to north will be scorched by it." 
Ezekiel20:48 And all flesh will see that I, Yahweh, have made it burn; it shall not be quenched.”’”" 
Ezekiel20:49 Then I said, “Ah Lord Yahweh! They are saying of me, ‘Is he not just speaking parables?’”" 
Ezekiel21:1 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel21:2 “Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem and speak, dripping out words against the sanctuaries and prophesy against the land of Israel" 
Ezekiel21:3 and say to the land of Israel, ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am against you; and I will bring out My sword from its sheath and cut off from you the righteous and the wicked." 
Ezekiel21:4 Because I will cut off from you the righteous and the wicked, therefore My sword will go out from its sheath against all flesh from south to north." 
Ezekiel21:5 Thus all flesh will know that I, Yahweh, have brought out My sword from its sheath. It will not return to its sheath again.”’" 
Ezekiel21:6 Now as for you, son of man, groan with breaking heart and bitter grief, groan in their sight." 
Ezekiel21:7 And it will be that when they say to you, ‘Why do you groan?’ you shall say, ‘Because of the report that is coming; and every heart will melt, all hands will fall limp, every spirit will faint, and all knees will be weak as water. Behold, it is coming, and it will happen,’ declares Lord Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel21:8 Again the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel21:9 “Son of man, prophesy and say, ‘Thus says the Lord.’ Say, ‘A sword, a sword sharpened And also polished!" 
Ezekiel21:10 Sharpened to make a slaughter, Polished to flash like lightning!’ Or shall we rejoice in the scepter of My son? The sword despises every tree." 
Ezekiel21:11 It is given to be polished, that it may be seized by the hand; the sword is sharpened and polished, to give it into the hand of the one who kills." 
Ezekiel21:12 Cry out and wail, son of man; for it is against My people; it is against all the princes of Israel. They are delivered over to the sword with My people; therefore slap your thigh." 
Ezekiel21:13 For there is a testing; and what if even the scepter which the sword despises will be no more?” declares Lord Yahweh. 
Ezekiel21:14 “You therefore, son of man, prophesy and strike your hands together; and let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword for the slain. It is the sword for the great one slain, which surrounds them," 
Ezekiel21:15 that their hearts may melt, and many will be stumbling blocks at all their gates. I have given the glittering sword. Ah! It is made for striking like lightning, it is wrapped up in readiness for slaughter." 
Ezekiel21:16 Show yourself sharp, go to the right; set yourself; go to the left, wherever your edge is appointed." 
Ezekiel21:17 And I will also strike My hands together, and I will cause My wrath to be at rest; I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel21:18 And the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel21:19 “Now as for you, son of man, make two ways for the sword of the king of Babylon to come; both of them will go out of one land. And make a signpost; make it at the head of the way to the city." 
Ezekiel21:20 You shall mark a way for the sword to come to Rabbah of the sons of Ammon and to Judah into fortified Jerusalem. 
Ezekiel21:21 For the king of Babylon stands at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination; he shakes the arrows; he asks the household idols; he looks at the liver." 
Ezekiel21:22 Into his right hand came the divination, ‘Jerusalem,’ to set battering rams, to open the mouth for killing, to lift up the voice with a shout of war, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up ramps, to build a siege wall." 
Ezekiel21:23 And it will be to them like a worthless divination in their eyes; they have sworn solemn oaths. But he brings iniquity to remembrance, that they may be seized." 
Ezekiel21:24 “Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Because you have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your deeds your sins appear—because you have come to remembrance, you will be seized with the hand." 
Ezekiel21:25 And you, O slain, wicked one, the prince of Israel, whose day has come, in the time of the iniquity of the end,’" 
Ezekiel21:26 thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Remove the turban and take off the crown; this will no longer be the same. Make high that which is low and make low that which is high." 
Ezekiel21:27 A ruin, a ruin, a ruin, I will make it. This also will be no more until He comes to whom the legal judgment belongs, and I will give it to Him.’" 
Ezekiel21:28 “Now as for you, son of man, prophesy and say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh concerning the sons of Ammon and concerning their reproach,’ and say: ‘A sword, a sword is drawn, polished for the slaughter, to cause it to consume, that it may be like lightning—" 
Ezekiel21:29 while they behold for you worthless visions, while they divine lies for you—to place you on the necks of the wicked who are slain, whose day has come, in the time of the iniquity of the end." 
Ezekiel21:30 Return it to its sheath. In the place where you were created, in the land of your origin, I will judge you." 
Ezekiel21:31 And I will pour out My indignation on you; I will blow on you with the fire of My fury, and I will give you into the hand of brutal men, craftsmen of destruction." 
Ezekiel21:32 You will be fuel for the fire; your blood will be in the midst of the land. You will not be remembered, for I, Yahweh, have spoken.’”" 
Ezekiel22:1 Then the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel22:2 “Now as for you, son of man, will you judge, will you judge the city of blood? Then you shall cause her to know all her abominations." 
Ezekiel22:3 And you shall say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “A city shedding blood in her midst, so that her time will come; and she makes idols against herself for defilement!" 
Ezekiel22:4 You have become guilty by the blood which you have shed, and defiled by your idols which you have made. Thus you have brought your day near and have come to your years; therefore I have made you a reproach to the nations and a mocking to all the lands." 
Ezekiel22:5 Those who are near and those who are far from you will mock you, you of unclean name, full of turmoil." 
Ezekiel22:6 “Behold, the princes of Israel, each according to his power, have been in you for the purpose of shedding blood." 
Ezekiel22:7 They have treated father and mother with contempt within you. The sojourner they have oppressed in your midst; the fatherless and the widow they have mistreated in you. 
Ezekiel22:8 You have despised My holy things and profaned My sabbaths. 
Ezekiel22:9 Slanderous men have been in you for the purpose of shedding blood, and in you they have eaten at the mountain shrines. In your midst they have done acts of lewdness." 
Ezekiel22:10 In you they have uncovered their fathers’ nakedness; in you they have humbled her who was unclean in her menstrual impurity. 
Ezekiel22:11 One has also done what is an abomination with his neighbor’s wife, and another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law. And another in you has violated his sister, his father’s daughter." 
Ezekiel22:12 In you they have taken bribes for the purpose of shedding blood; you have taken interest and profits, and you have injured your neighbors for gain by oppression, and you have forgotten Me,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel22:13 “Now behold, I have struck My hand at your greedy gain which you have acquired and at the bloodshed which is among you." 
Ezekiel22:14 Can your heart stand, or can your hands be strong in the days that I will act against you? I, Yahweh, have spoken and will act." 
Ezekiel22:15 I will scatter you among the nations, and I will disperse you through the lands, and I will put an end to your uncleanness from you." 
Ezekiel22:16 You will profane yourself in the sight of the nations, and you will know that I am Yahweh.”’”" 
Ezekiel22:17 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel22:18 “Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to Me; all of them are bronze and tin and iron and lead in the furnace; they are the dross of silver." 
Ezekiel22:19 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Because all of you have become dross, therefore, behold, I am going to gather you into the midst of Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel22:20 As they gather silver and bronze and iron and lead and tin into the furnace to blow fire on it in order to melt it, so I will gather you in My anger and in My wrath, and I will lay you there and melt you." 
Ezekiel22:21 And I will collect you together and blow on you with the fire of My fury, and you will be melted in the midst of it." 
Ezekiel22:22 As silver is melted in the furnace, so you will be melted in the midst of it; and you will know that I, Yahweh, have poured out My wrath on you.’”" 
Ezekiel22:23 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel22:24 “Son of man, say to her, ‘You are a land that is not cleansed or rained on in the day of indignation.’" 
Ezekiel22:25 There is a conspiracy of her prophets in her midst like a roaring lion tearing the prey. They have devoured lives; they have taken treasure and precious things; they have made many widows in the midst of her. 
Ezekiel22:26 Her priests have done violence to My law and have profaned My holy things; they have made no separation between the holy and the profane, and they have not made known the difference between the unclean and the clean; and they hide their eyes from My sabbaths, and I am profaned among them." 
Ezekiel22:27 Her princes within her are like wolves tearing the prey by shedding blood and destroying lives in order to get greedy gain. 
Ezekiel22:28 And her prophets have smeared whitewash for them, beholding worthless visions and divining lies for them, saying, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh,’ when Yahweh has not spoken." 
Ezekiel22:29 The people of the land have practiced oppression and committed robbery, and they have mistreated the afflicted and needy and have oppressed the sojourner without justice." 
Ezekiel22:30 And I searched for a man among them who would build up the wall and stand in the breach before Me for the land, so that I would not bring it to ruin; but I found no one." 
Ezekiel22:31 Thus I have poured out My indignation on them; I have consumed them with the fire of My fury; their way I have brought upon their heads,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel23:1 The word of Yahweh came to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel23:2 “Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother;" 
Ezekiel23:3 and they played the harlot in Egypt. They played the harlot in their youth; there their breasts were pressed, and there their virgin bosom was handled." 
Ezekiel23:4 Their names were Oholah the elder and Oholibah her sister. And they became Mine, and they bore sons and daughters. And as for their names, Samaria is Oholah and Jerusalem is Oholibah." 
Ezekiel23:5 “Oholah played the harlot while she was Mine; and she lusted after her lovers, after the Assyrians, her neighbors," 
Ezekiel23:6 who were clothed in purple, governors and officials, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding on horses." 
Ezekiel23:7 She gave her harlotries to them, all of them the choicest men of Assyria; and with all whom she lusted after, with all their idols she defiled herself." 
Ezekiel23:8 She did not forsake her harlotries from the time in Egypt; for in her youth men had lain with her, and they handled her virgin bosom and poured out their harlotry on her." 
Ezekiel23:9 Therefore, I gave her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians, after whom she lusted." 
Ezekiel23:10 They uncovered her nakedness; they took her sons and her daughters, but they killed her with the sword. Thus she became a despised name among women, and they executed judgments on her." 
Ezekiel23:11 “Now her sister Oholibah saw this, yet she was more corrupt in her lust than she, and her harlotries were more than the harlotries of her sister." 
Ezekiel23:12 She lusted after the Assyrians, governors and officials, the ones near, magnificently dressed, horsemen riding on horses, all of them desirable choice men." 
Ezekiel23:13 And I saw that she had defiled herself; they both took the same way. 
Ezekiel23:14 So she increased her harlotries. And she saw men portrayed on the wall, images of the Chaldeans portrayed with vermilion," 
Ezekiel23:15 girded with belts on their loins, with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them looking like officers, in the likeness of the Babylonians in Chaldea, the land of their birth." 
Ezekiel23:16 And she saw them and lusted after them and sent messengers to them in Chaldea. 
Ezekiel23:17 So the Babylonians came to her to the bed of love and defiled her with their harlotry. Then she became defiled by them, and her soul became disgusted with them." 
Ezekiel23:18 And she uncovered her harlotries and uncovered her nakedness; then My soul became disgusted with her, as My soul had become disgusted with her sister." 
Ezekiel23:19 Yet she multiplied her harlotries, remembering the days of her youth, when she played the harlot in the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel23:20 She lusted after their paramours, whose flesh is like the flesh of donkeys and whose issue is like the issue of horses." 
Ezekiel23:21 Thus you longed for the lewdness of your youth, when the Egyptians handled your bosom because of the breasts of your youth." 
Ezekiel23:22 “Therefore, O Oholibah, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Behold, I will arouse your lovers against you, those with whom your soul was disgusted, and I will bring them against you from every side:" 
Ezekiel23:23 the Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, Pekod and Shoa and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them; desirable choice men, governors and officials, all of them, officers and men of renown, all of them riding on horses." 
Ezekiel23:24 They will come against you with weapons, chariots and wagons, and with an assembly of peoples. They will set themselves against you on every side with large shield and shield and helmet; and I will give the judgment to them, and they will judge you according to their judgments." 
Ezekiel23:25 And I will set My jealousy against you, that they may deal with you in wrath. They will remove your nose and your ears; and your survivors will fall by the sword. They will take your sons and your daughters; and your survivors will be consumed by the fire." 
Ezekiel23:26 They will also strip you of your clothes and take away your beautiful jewelry. 
Ezekiel23:27 Thus I will make your lewdness and your harlotry brought from the land of Egypt to cease from you, so that you will not lift up your eyes to them or remember Egypt anymore.’" 
Ezekiel23:28 For thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Behold, I will give you into the hand of those whom you hate, into the hand of those with whom your soul was disgusted." 
Ezekiel23:29 They will deal with you in hatred, take all the fruit of your labor, and leave you naked and bare. And the nakedness of your harlotries will be uncovered, both your lewdness and your harlotries." 
Ezekiel23:30 These things will be done to you because you have played the harlot with the nations, because you have defiled yourself with their idols." 
Ezekiel23:31 You have walked in the way of your sister; therefore I will give her cup into your hand.’ 
Ezekiel23:32 Thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘You will drink your sister’s cup, Which is deep and wide. You will be laughed at and held in derision; It contains much." 
Ezekiel23:33 You will be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, The cup of horror and desolation, The cup of your sister Samaria." 
Ezekiel23:34 You will drink it and drain it. Then you will gnaw its fragments And tear your breasts; for I have spoken,’ declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel23:35 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Because you have forgotten Me and cast Me behind your back, bear now the punishment of your lewdness and your harlotries.’”" 
Ezekiel23:36 Moreover, Yahweh said to me, “Son of man, will you judge Oholah and Oholibah? Then declare to them their abominations." 
Ezekiel23:37 For they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands. Thus they have committed adultery with their idols and even caused their sons, whom they bore to Me, to pass through the fire to them as food." 
Ezekiel23:38 Again, they have done this to Me: they have defiled My sanctuary on the same day and have profaned My sabbaths." 
Ezekiel23:39 For when they had slaughtered their children for their idols, they entered My sanctuary on the same day to profane it; and behold, thus they did within My house." 
Ezekiel23:40 “Furthermore, they have even sent for men who come from afar, to whom a messenger was sent; and behold, they came—for whom you bathed, painted your eyes, and decorated yourselves with ornaments;" 
Ezekiel23:41 and you sat on a splendid couch with a table arranged before it on which you had set My incense and My oil. 
Ezekiel23:42 The sound of a multitude at ease was with her; and drunkards were brought from the wilderness with men of the common sort. And they put bracelets on the hands of the women and beautiful crowns on their heads. 
Ezekiel23:43 “Then I said concerning her who was worn out by adulteries, ‘Will they now commit harlotry with her when she is thus?’" 
Ezekiel23:44 But they went in to her as they would go in to a harlot. Thus they went in to Oholah and to Oholibah, the lewd women." 
Ezekiel23:45 But they, righteous men, will judge them with the judgment of adulteresses and with the judgment of women who shed blood, because they are adulteresses and blood is on their hands." 
Ezekiel23:46 “For thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Bring up an assembly against them and give them over to terror and plunder." 
Ezekiel23:47 The assembly will stone them with stones and cut them down with their swords; they will kill their sons and their daughters and burn their houses with fire. 
Ezekiel23:48 Thus I will make lewdness cease from the land, that all women may be chastised and not commit lewdness as you have done." 
Ezekiel23:49 Your lewdness will be requited upon you, and you will bear the sin of worshiping your idols; thus you will know that I am Lord Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel24:1 And the word of Yahweh came to me in the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth of the month, saying," 
Ezekiel24:2 “Son of man, write the name of the day, this very day. The king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day." 
Ezekiel24:3 Speak a parable to the rebellious house, and you shall say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Put on the pot, put it on and also pour water in it;" 
Ezekiel24:4 Put in it the pieces, Every good piece, the thigh and the shoulder; Fill it with choice bones." 
Ezekiel24:5 Take the choicest of the flock, And also pile wood under the pot. Make it seethe vigorously. Also boil its bones in it.”" 
Ezekiel24:6 ‘Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, “Woe to the city of blood, To the pot in which there is rust And whose rust has not gone out of it! Take out of it piece after piece, Without making a choice." 
Ezekiel24:7 For her blood is in her midst; She placed it on the bare rock; She did not pour it on the ground To cover it with dust. 
Ezekiel24:8 That it may cause wrath to come up to take vengeance, I have put her blood on the bare rock, That it may not be covered.”" 
Ezekiel24:9 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, “Woe to the city of blood! I also will make the pile great." 
Ezekiel24:10 Heap on the wood, kindle the fire, Completely cook the flesh And mix in the spices And let the bones be burned." 
Ezekiel24:11 Then stand it empty on its coals So that it may be hot And its bronze may glow And its uncleanness may be melted in it, Its rust brought to a complete end." 
Ezekiel24:12 She has wearied Me with toil, Yet her great rust has not gone from her; Let her rust be in the fire!" 
Ezekiel24:13 In your uncleanness is lewdness. Because I would have cleansed you, Yet you are not clean; You will not be cleansed from your uncleanness again Until I have caused My wrath against you to be at rest." 
Ezekiel24:14 I, Yahweh, have spoken; it is coming, and I will act. I will not regret, and I will not pity, and I will not relent; according to your ways and according to your deeds I will judge you,” declares Lord Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel24:15 And the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel24:16 “Son of man, behold, I am about to take from you the desire of your eyes with a blow; but you shall not mourn, and you shall not weep, and your tears shall not come." 
Ezekiel24:17 Groan silently; make no mourning for the dead. Bind on your headdress and put your shoes on your feet and do not cover your mustache and do not eat the bread of men.” 
Ezekiel24:18 So I spoke to the people in the morning, and in the evening my wife died. And in the morning I did as I was commanded." 
Ezekiel24:19 The people said to me, “Will you not tell us what these things that you are doing mean for us?”" 
Ezekiel24:20 Then I said to them, “The word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel24:21 ‘Say to the house of Israel, “Thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Behold, I am about to profane My sanctuary, the pride of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and the delight of your soul; and your sons and your daughters whom you have left behind will fall by the sword." 
Ezekiel24:22 And you will do as I have done; you will not cover your mustache, and you will not eat the bread of men." 
Ezekiel24:23 And your headdresses will be on your heads and your shoes on your feet. You will not mourn, and you will not weep, but you will rot away in your iniquities, and you will groan to one another." 
Ezekiel24:24 Thus Ezekiel will be a wondrous sign to you; according to all that he has done you will do; when it comes, then you will know that I am Lord Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel24:25 ‘Now as for you, son of man, will it not be on the day when I take from them their strong defense, the joy of their beauty, the desire of their eyes, and what lifts up their soul, their sons and their daughters," 
Ezekiel24:26 that on that day he who escapes will come to you with a report for your ears? 
Ezekiel24:27 On that day your mouth will be opened to him who escaped, and you will speak and be mute no longer. Thus you will be a wondrous sign to them, and they will know that I am Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel25:1 And the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel25:2 “Son of man, set your face toward the sons of Ammon and prophesy against them" 
Ezekiel25:3 and say to the sons of Ammon, ‘Hear the word of Lord Yahweh! Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because you said, ‘Aha!’ against My sanctuary when it was profaned, and against the land of Israel when it was made desolate, and against the house of Judah when they went into exile," 
Ezekiel25:4 therefore, behold, I am going to give you to the sons of the east for a possession, and they will set their encampments among you and make their dwellings among you; they will eat your fruit and drink your milk." 
Ezekiel25:5 I will make Rabbah a pasture for camels and the sons of Ammon a resting place for flocks. Thus you will know that I am Yahweh.” 
Ezekiel25:6 For thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because you have clapped your hands and stamped your feet and were glad with all the scorn of your soul against the land of Israel," 
Ezekiel25:7 therefore, behold, I have stretched out My hand against you, and I will give you for plunder to the nations. And I will cut you off from the peoples and make you perish from the lands; I will destroy you. Thus you will know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel25:8 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because Moab and Seir say, ‘Behold, the house of Judah is like all the nations,’" 
Ezekiel25:9 therefore, behold, I am going to open the flank of Moab by its cities, by its cities which are on its frontiers, the glory of the land, Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim," 
Ezekiel25:10 and I will give it for a possession along with the sons of Ammon to the sons of the east, so that the sons of Ammon will not be remembered among the nations." 
Ezekiel25:11 Thus I will execute judgments on Moab, and they will know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel25:12 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because Edom has acted against the house of Judah by taking vengeance and has incurred grievous guilt and avenged themselves upon them,”" 
Ezekiel25:13 therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, “I will also stretch out My hand against Edom and cut off man and beast from it. And I will lay it waste; from Teman even to Dedan they will fall by the sword." 
Ezekiel25:14 I will lay My vengeance on Edom by the hand of My people Israel. Therefore, they will act in Edom according to My anger and according to My wrath; thus they will know My vengeance,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel25:15 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because the Philistines have acted in revenge and have taken vengeance with scorn of soul to bring ruin with everlasting enmity,”" 
Ezekiel25:16 therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will stretch out My hand against the Philistines and cut off the Cherethites and cause the remnant of the seacoast to perish." 
Ezekiel25:17 So I will execute great vengeance on them with wrathful reproofs; and they will know that I am Yahweh when I lay My vengeance on them.”’” 
Ezekiel26:1 Now it happened in the eleventh year, on the first of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel26:2 “Son of man, because Tyre has said concerning Jerusalem, ‘Aha, the gateway of the peoples is broken; it has opened to me. I shall be filled, now that she is laid waste,’" 
Ezekiel26:3 therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Behold, I am against you, O Tyre, and I will bring up many nations against you, as the sea brings up its waves." 
Ezekiel26:4 They will make the walls of Tyre a ruin and pull down her towers; and I will scrape her dust from her and make her a bare rock. 
Ezekiel26:5 She will be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea, for I have spoken,’ declares Lord Yahweh, ‘and she will become plunder for the nations." 
Ezekiel26:6 Also her daughters who are on the mainland will be killed by the sword, and they will know that I am Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel26:7 For thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will bring upon Tyre from the north Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, king of kings, with horses, chariots, horsemen, and an assembly, a great number of people." 
Ezekiel26:8 He will kill your daughters on the mainland with the sword; and he will make siege walls against you, cast up a ramp against you, and raise up a large shield against you." 
Ezekiel26:9 The blow of his battering rams he will direct against your walls, and with his swords he will tear down your towers." 
Ezekiel26:10 Because of the abundance of his horses, the fine dust raised by them will cover you; your walls will shake at the noise of horsemen and wagons and chariots when he enters your gates as men enter a city that is breached." 
Ezekiel26:11 With the hoofs of his horses he will trample all your streets. He will kill your people with the sword; and your strong pillars will come down to the ground. 
Ezekiel26:12 Also they will make a spoil of your wealth and a plunder of your merchandise, and pull down your walls and tear down your desirable houses, and throw your stones and your timbers and your debris into the water." 
Ezekiel26:13 So I will cause the tumult of your songs to cease, and the sound of your harps will be heard no more." 
Ezekiel26:14 I will make you a bare rock; you will be a place for the spreading of nets. You will be built no more, for I Yahweh have spoken,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel26:15 Thus says Lord Yahweh to Tyre, “Shall not the coastlands shake at the sound of your downfall when the wounded groan, when the killing occurs in your midst?" 
Ezekiel26:16 Then all the princes of the sea will go down from their thrones, remove their robes, and strip off their embroidered garments. They will clothe themselves with trembling; they will sit on the ground, tremble every moment, and be appalled at you." 
Ezekiel26:17 They will take up a lamentation over you and say to you, ‘How you have perished, O inhabited one, From the seas, O city that was praised, Which was strong on the sea, She and her inhabitants, Who imposed her terror On all her inhabitants!" 
Ezekiel26:18 Now the coastlands will tremble On the day of your downfall; Yes, the coastlands which are by the sea Will be dismayed at your departure.’”" 
Ezekiel26:19 For thus says Lord Yahweh, “When I make you a city laid waste, like the cities which are not inhabited, when I bring up the deep over you and the great waters cover you," 
Ezekiel26:20 then I will bring you down with those who go down to the pit, to the people of old, and I will make you inhabit the lower parts of the earth, like the ancient waste places, with those who go down to the pit, so that you will not be inhabited; but I will set glory in the land of the living." 
Ezekiel26:21 I will bring terrors on you, and you will be no more; though you will be sought, you will never be found again,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel27:1 Moreover, the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel27:2 “Now as for you, son of man, take up a lamentation over Tyre" 
Ezekiel27:3 and say to Tyre, who inhabits the entrance to the sea, a trader of the peoples to many coastlands, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “O Tyre, you have said, ‘I am perfect in beauty.’" 
Ezekiel27:4 Your borders are in the heart of the seas; Your builders have perfected your beauty. 
Ezekiel27:5 They have made all your planks of fir trees from Senir; They have taken a cedar from Lebanon to make a mast for you. 
Ezekiel27:6 Of oaks from Bashan they have made your oars; With ivory they have inlaid your deck of boxwood from the coastlands of Cyprus. 
Ezekiel27:7 Your sail was of fine embroidered linen from Egypt So that it became your standard; Your awning was blue and purple from the coastlands of Elishah. 
Ezekiel27:8 The inhabitants of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers; Your wise men, O Tyre, were aboard; they were your pilots." 
Ezekiel27:9 The elders of Gebal and her wise men were with you repairing your seams; All the ships of the sea and their sailors were with you in order to deal in your merchandise. 
Ezekiel27:10 “Persia and Lud and Put were in your military force, your men of war. They hung shield and helmet in you; they set forth your majesty." 
Ezekiel27:11 The sons of Arvad and your military force were on your walls, all around, and the Gammadim were in your towers. They hung their small shields on your walls all around; they perfected your beauty." 
Ezekiel27:12 “Tarshish was your customer because of the abundance of all kinds of wealth; with silver, iron, tin, and lead they paid for your wares." 
Ezekiel27:13 Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were your traders; with the lives of men and vessels of bronze they paid for your merchandise." 
Ezekiel27:14 Those from Beth-togarmah gave horses and war horses and mules for your wares. 
Ezekiel27:15 The sons of Dedan were your traders. Many coastlands were customers at your hand; ivory tusks and ebony they brought as your payment. 
Ezekiel27:16 Aram was your customer because of the abundance of your goods; they paid for your wares with emeralds, purple, embroidered work, fine linen, coral, and rubies." 
Ezekiel27:17 Judah and the land of Israel, they were your traders; with the wheat of Minnith, cakes, honey, oil, and balm they paid for your merchandise." 
Ezekiel27:18 Damascus was your customer because of the abundance of your goods, because of the abundance of all kinds of wealth, because of the wine of Helbon and white wool." 
Ezekiel27:19 Also Vedan and Javan paid for your wares from Uzal; wrought iron, cassia, and sweet cane were among your merchandise." 
Ezekiel27:20 Dedan traded with you in saddlecloths for riding. 
Ezekiel27:21 Arabia and all the princes of Kedar, they were customers at your hand for lambs, rams, and goats; for these, they were your customers." 
Ezekiel27:22 The traders of Sheba and Raamah, they traded with you; they paid for your wares with the best of all kinds of spices and with all kinds of precious stones and gold." 
Ezekiel27:23 Haran, Canneh, Eden, the traders of Sheba, Asshur, and Chilmad traded with you." 
Ezekiel27:24 They traded with you in choice garments, in clothes of blue and embroidered work, and in carpets of many colors and tightly wound cords, which were among your merchandise." 
Ezekiel27:25 The ships of Tarshish were the carriers for your merchandise. And you were filled and were very glorious In the heart of the seas. 
Ezekiel27:26 “Your rowers have brought you Into great waters; The east wind has broken you In the heart of the seas. 
Ezekiel27:27 Your wealth, your wares, your merchandise, Your sailors and your pilots, Your repairers of seams, your dealers in merchandise, And all your men of war who are in you, With all your assembly that is in your midst, Will fall into the heart of the seas On the day of your downfall." 
Ezekiel27:28 At the sound of the cry of your pilots The pasture lands will shake. 
Ezekiel27:29 All who handle the oar, The sailors and all the pilots of the sea, Will come down from their ships; They will stand on the land," 
Ezekiel27:30 And they will make their voice heard over you And will cry bitterly. They will cast dust on their heads; They will wallow in ashes. 
Ezekiel27:31 Also they will make themselves bald for you And gird themselves with sackcloth; And they will weep for you in bitterness of soul With bitter mourning. 
Ezekiel27:32 Moreover, in their wailing they will take up a lamentation for you And lament over you: ‘Who is like Tyre, Like her who is silent in the midst of the sea?" 
Ezekiel27:33 When your wares went out from the seas, You satisfied a great number of peoples; With the greatness of your wealth and your merchandise You enriched the kings of earth." 
Ezekiel27:34 Now that you are broken by the seas In the depths of the waters, Your merchandise and all your assembly Have fallen in the midst of you." 
Ezekiel27:35 All the inhabitants of the coastlands Are appalled at you, And their kings are horribly horrified; They are troubled in countenance." 
Ezekiel27:36 The merchants among the peoples hiss at you; You have become terrified, And you will cease to be forever.’”’”" 
Ezekiel28:1 The word of Yahweh came again to me, saying," 
Ezekiel28:2 “Son of man, say to the ruler of Tyre, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because your heart is lofty And you have said, ‘I am a god; I sit enthroned in the seat of gods In the heart of the seas’; Yet you are a man and not God, Although you make your heart like the heart of God—" 
Ezekiel28:3 Behold, you are wiser than Daniel; There is no secret that is a match for you." 
Ezekiel28:3 Behold, you are wiser than Daniel; There is no secret that is a match for you." 
Ezekiel28:4 By your wisdom and understanding You have acquired wealth for yourself And have acquired gold and silver for your treasuries. 
Ezekiel28:5 By your great wisdom, by your trade You have increased your wealth, And your heart is lofty because of your wealth—" 
Ezekiel28:6 Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Because you have made your heart Like the heart of God," 
Ezekiel28:7 Therefore, behold, I will bring strangers upon you, The most ruthless of the nations. And they will draw their swords Against the beauty of your wisdom And defile your splendor." 
Ezekiel28:8 They will bring you down to the pit, And you will die the death of those who are slain In the heart of the seas." 
Ezekiel28:9 Will you still say, “I am a god,” In the presence of the one who kills you, Though you are a man and not God, In the hands of those who slay you?" 
Ezekiel28:10 You will die the death of the uncircumcised By the hand of strangers, For I have spoken!’ declares Lord Yahweh!”’”" 
Ezekiel28:11 Again the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel28:12 “Son of man, take up a lamentation over the king of Tyre and say to him, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “You had the seal of perfection, Full of wisdom and perfect in beauty." 
Ezekiel28:13 You were in Eden, the garden of God; Every precious stone was your covering: The ruby, the topaz, and the diamond; The beryl, the onyx, and the jasper; The lapis lazuli, the turquoise, and the emerald; And the gold, the workmanship of your settings and sockets, Was in you. On the day that you were created They were prepared." 
Ezekiel28:14 You were the anointed cherub who covers, And I placed you there. You were on the holy mountain of God; You walked in the midst of the stones of fire." 
Ezekiel28:15 You were blameless in your ways From the day you were created Until unrighteousness was found in you. 
Ezekiel28:16 By the abundance of your trade You were internally filled with violence, And you sinned; Therefore I have cast you as profane From the mountain of God. And I have destroyed you, O covering cherub, From the midst of the stones of fire." 
Ezekiel28:17 Your heart was lofty because of your beauty; You corrupted your wisdom by reason of your splendor. I cast you to the ground; I put you before kings, That they may see you." 
Ezekiel28:18 By the abundance of your iniquities, In the unrighteousness of your trade You profaned your sanctuaries. Therefore I have brought out fire from the midst of you; It has consumed you, And I have turned you to ashes on the earth In the eyes of all who see you." 
Ezekiel28:19 All who know you among the peoples Are appalled at you; You have become terrified, And you will cease to be forever.”’”" 
Ezekiel28:20 And the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel28:21 “Son of man, set your face toward Sidon, prophesy against her" 
Ezekiel28:22 and say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I am against you, O Sidon, And I will be glorified in your midst. Then they will know that I am Yahweh when I execute judgments in her, And I will manifest My holiness in her." 
Ezekiel28:23 For I will send pestilence to her And blood to her streets, And the wounded will fall in her midst By the sword upon her on every side; Then they will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel28:24 And there will be no more for the house of Israel a prickling brier or a painful thorn from any round about them who scorned them; then they will know that I am Lord Yahweh.” 
Ezekiel28:25 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “When I gather the house of Israel from the peoples, among whom they are scattered, and will manifest My holiness in them in the sight of the nations, then they will live in their land which I gave to My servant Jacob." 
Ezekiel28:26 They will live in it securely; and they will build houses, plant vineyards, and live securely when I execute judgments upon all who scorn them all around them. Then they will know that I am Yahweh their God.”’”" 
Ezekiel29:1 In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth of the month, the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel29:2 “Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt and prophesy against him and against all Egypt." 
Ezekiel29:3 Speak and say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt, The great monster that lies in the midst of his canals of the Nile, That has said, ‘My Nile is mine, and I myself have made it.’" 
Ezekiel29:4 I will put hooks in your jaws And make the fish of your canals of the Nile cling to your scales. And I will bring you up out of the midst of your canals of the Nile, And all the fish of your canals of the Nile will cling to your scales." 
Ezekiel29:5 I will abandon you to the wilderness, you and all the fish of your canals of the Nile; You will fall on the open field; you will not be brought together or gathered. I have given you for food to the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the sky." 
Ezekiel29:6 Then all the inhabitants of Egypt will know that I am Yahweh Because they have been only a staff made of reed to the house of Israel. 
Ezekiel29:7 When they seized you with the hand, You tore and split open all their shoulders; And when they leaned on you, You broke and made all their loins quake.”" 
Ezekiel29:8 ‘Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will bring upon you a sword, and I will cut off from you man and beast." 
Ezekiel29:9 The land of Egypt will become a desolation and waste. Then they will know that I am Yahweh. Because you said, ‘The Nile is mine, and I have made it,’" 
Ezekiel29:10 therefore, behold, I am against you and against your canals of the Nile, and I will make the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from Migdol to Syene and even to the border of Ethiopia." 
Ezekiel29:11 A man’s foot will not pass through it, and the foot of a beast will not pass through it, and it will not be inhabited for forty years." 
Ezekiel29:12 So I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of desolated lands. And her cities, in the midst of cities that are laid waste, will be desolate forty years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the lands.”" 
Ezekiel29:13 ‘For thus says Lord Yahweh, “At the end of forty years I will gather the Egyptians from the peoples among whom they were scattered." 
Ezekiel29:14 I will return the fortunes of Egypt and make them return to the land of Pathros, to the land of their origin, and there they will be a lowly kingdom." 
Ezekiel29:15 It will be the lowest of the kingdoms, and it will never again lift itself up above the nations. And I will make them so small that they will not have dominion over the nations." 
Ezekiel29:16 And it will never again be the security of the house of Israel, bringing to remembrance the iniquity of their having turned to go after Egypt. Then they will know that I am Lord Yahweh.”’”" 
Ezekiel29:17 Now in the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first of the month, the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel29:18 “Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made his military force labor hard against Tyre; every head was made bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare. But he and his military force had no wages from Tyre for the labor that he had labored against it.”" 
Ezekiel29:19 Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. And he will carry off her abundance and capture her spoil and seize her plunder; and it will be wages for his military force." 
Ezekiel29:20 I have given him the land of Egypt for his work which he labored because they acted for Me,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel29:21 “On that day I will make a horn sprout for the house of Israel, and I will open your mouth in their midst. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel30:1 The word of Yahweh came again to me saying," 
Ezekiel30:2 “Son of man, prophesy and say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Wail, ‘Alas for the day!’" 
Ezekiel30:3 For the day is near, Even the day of Yahweh is near; It will be a day of clouds, A time of doom for the nations." 
Ezekiel30:4 A sword will come upon Egypt, And anguish will be in Ethiopia; When the slain fall in Egypt, They take away her multitude, And her foundations are pulled down." 
Ezekiel30:5 Ethiopia, Put, Lud, all Arabia, Libya, and the people of the land that is in covenant will fall with them by the sword.”" 
Ezekiel30:6 ‘Thus says Yahweh, “Indeed, those who support Egypt will fall, And the pride of her strength will come down; From Migdol to Syene They will fall within her by the sword,” Declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel30:7 “They will be desolate In the midst of the desolated lands; And her cities will be In the midst of the cities laid waste. 
Ezekiel30:8 And they will know that I am Yahweh, When I set a fire in Egypt And all her helpers are broken." 
Ezekiel30:9 On that day messengers will go forth from Me in ships to frighten secure Ethiopia; and anguish will be on them as on the day of Egypt; for behold, it is coming!”" 
Ezekiel30:10 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “I will also make the multitude of Egypt cease By the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon." 
Ezekiel30:11 He and his people with him, The most ruthless of the nations, Will be brought in to make the land a ruin; And they will draw their swords against Egypt And fill the land with the slain." 
Ezekiel30:12 Moreover, I will make the canals of the Nile dry And sell the land into the hands of evil men. And I will make the land desolate, As well as its fullness, By the hand of strangers; I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel30:13 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “I will also destroy the idols And make the images cease from Memphis. And there will no longer be a prince in the land of Egypt; And I will put fear in the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel30:14 I will make Pathros desolate, Set a fire in Zoan, And execute judgments on Thebes." 
Ezekiel30:15 I will pour out My wrath on Sin, The strong defense of Egypt; I will also cut off the multitude of Thebes." 
Ezekiel30:16 I will set a fire in Egypt; Sin will writhe in anguish; Thebes will be breached, And Memphis will have distresses daily." 
Ezekiel30:17 The choice men of On and of Pi‑beseth Will fall by the sword, And the women will go into captivity." 
Ezekiel30:18 In Tehaphnehes the day will be dark When I break there the bars of the yoke of Egypt. Then the pride of her strength will cease in her; A cloud will cover her, And her daughters will go into captivity." 
Ezekiel30:19 Thus I will execute judgments on Egypt, And they will know that I am Yahweh.”’”" 
Ezekiel30:20 In the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh of the month, the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel30:21 “Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and behold, it has not been bound up to be given healing or wrapped with a bandage, that it may be strong to seize the sword." 
Ezekiel30:22 Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt and will break his arms, both the strong and the broken; and I will make the sword fall from his hand." 
Ezekiel30:23 I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the lands. 
Ezekiel30:24 For I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put My sword in his hand; and I will break the arms of Pharaoh so that he will groan before him with the groanings of a wounded man. 
Ezekiel30:25 Thus I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh will fall. Then they will know that I am Yahweh, when I put My sword into the hand of the king of Babylon and he stretches it out against the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel30:26 When I scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the lands, then they will know that I am Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel31:1 Now it happened in the eleventh year, in the third month, on the first of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel31:2 “Son of man, say to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to his multitude, ‘To whom do you liken yourself in your greatness?" 
Ezekiel31:3 Behold, Assyria was a cedar in Lebanon With beautiful branches and forest shade And lofty in height, And its top was among the clouds." 
Ezekiel31:4 The waters made it grow; the deep made it high. With its rivers it was going all around its planting place And sent out its conduits to all the trees of the field. 
Ezekiel31:5 Therefore its height was loftier than all the trees of the field, And its boughs became many and its branches long Because of many waters as it spread them out." 
Ezekiel31:6 All the birds of the sky nested in its boughs, And under its branches all the beasts of the field gave birth, And all great nations lived under its shade." 
Ezekiel31:7 So it was beautiful in its greatness, in the length of its foliage; For its roots extended to many waters." 
Ezekiel31:8 The cedars in God’s garden could not match it; The cypresses could not liken themselves with its boughs, And the plane trees were not like its branches. No tree in God’s garden could liken itself with it in its beauty." 
Ezekiel31:9 I made it beautiful with the multitude of its foliage, And all the trees of Eden, which were in the garden of God, were jealous of it." 
Ezekiel31:10 ‘Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because it is lofty in height and has put its top among the clouds, and its heart is high up in its loftiness," 
Ezekiel31:11 therefore I will give it into the hand of a dominant one of the nations; he will thoroughly deal with it. According to its wickedness I have driven it away. 
Ezekiel31:12 Strangers—ruthless ones of the nations have cut it down and abandoned it; on the mountains and in all the valleys its foliage have fallen, and its boughs have been broken in all the ravines of the land. And all the peoples of the earth have gone down from its shade and abandoned it." 
Ezekiel31:13 On its downfall all the birds of the sky will dwell, and all the beasts of the field will be on its fallen branches" 
Ezekiel31:14 so that all the trees by the waters may not be lofty in their height, nor put their top among the clouds, nor their dominant ones—all the well-watered ones—stand in their loftiness. For they have all been given over to death, to the earth beneath, among the sons of men, with those who go down to the pit.”" 
Ezekiel31:15 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “On the day when it went down to Sheol I caused mourning; I covered it with the deep over it and held back its rivers. And its many waters were stopped up, and I made Lebanon mourn for it, and all the trees of the field wilted away on account of it." 
Ezekiel31:16 I made the nations quake at the sound of its downfall when I made it go down to Sheol with those who go down to the pit; and all the trees of Eden, the choicest and best of Lebanon, all the well-watered ones, were comforted in the earth beneath." 
Ezekiel31:17 They also went down with it to Sheol to those who were slain by the sword; and those who were its strength lived under its shade among the nations. 
Ezekiel31:18 “To which among the trees of Eden do you thus liken yourself in glory and greatness? Yet you will be brought down with the trees of Eden to the earth beneath; you will lie in the midst of the uncircumcised, with those who were slain by the sword. So is Pharaoh and all his multitude!”’ declares Lord Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel32:1 And it happened in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel32:2 “Son of man, take up a lamentation over Pharaoh king of Egypt and say to him, ‘You liken yourself to a young lion of the nations, Yet you are like the monster in the seas; And you burst forth in your rivers And muddied the waters with your feet And fouled their rivers.’”" 
Ezekiel32:3 Thus says Lord Yahweh, “So I will spread My net over you With an assembly of many peoples, And they shall bring you up in My net." 
Ezekiel32:4 I will abandon you on the land; I will hurl you on the open field. And I will cause all the birds of the sky to dwell on you, And I will satisfy the beasts of the whole earth with you." 
Ezekiel32:5 I will put your flesh on the mountains And fill the valleys with your refuse. 
Ezekiel32:6 I will also make the land drink the discharge of your blood As far as the mountains, And the ravines will be full of you." 
Ezekiel32:7 And when I extinguish you, I will cover the heavens and darken their stars; I will cover the sun with a cloud, And the moon will not give its light." 
Ezekiel32:8 All the shining lights in the heavens I will darken over you And will give darkness on your land,” Declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel32:9 “I will also vex the hearts of many peoples when I bring your destruction among the nations, into lands which you have not known." 
Ezekiel32:10 I will make many peoples appalled at you, and their kings will be horribly afraid of you when I brandish My sword before them; and they will tremble every moment, every man for his own life, on the day of your downfall.”" 
Ezekiel32:11 For thus says Lord Yahweh, “The sword of the king of Babylon will come upon you." 
Ezekiel32:12 By the swords of the mighty ones I will cause your multitude to fall; all of them are ruthless ones of the nations, And they will devastate the lofty pride of Egypt, And all its multitude will be destroyed." 
Ezekiel32:13 I will also make all its cattle perish from beside many waters; And the foot of man will not muddy them anymore, And the hoofs of beasts will not muddy them." 
Ezekiel32:14 Then I will make their waters settle And will cause their rivers to run like oil,” Declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel32:15 “When I make the land of Egypt a desolation, And the land is desolate of its fullness, When I strike all those who inhabit it, Then they shall know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel32:16 This is a lamentation, and they shall lament over it. The daughters of the nations shall lament over it. Over Egypt and over all her multitude they shall lament over it,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel32:17 Now it happened in the twelfth year, on the fifteenth of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel32:18 “Son of man, wail for the hordes of Egypt and bring it down, her and the daughters of the powerful nations, to the nether world, with those who go down to the pit;" 
Ezekiel32:19 ‘Whom do you surpass in beauty? Go down and make your bed with the uncircumcised.’ 
Ezekiel32:20 They shall fall in the midst of those who are slain by the sword. She is given over to the sword; they have drawn her and all her multitude away. 
Ezekiel32:21 The dominant among the mighty ones shall speak of him and his helpers from the midst of Sheol, ‘They have gone down, they lie still, the uncircumcised, slain by the sword.’" 
Ezekiel32:22 “Assyria is there and all her assembly; her graves are round about her. All of them are slain, fallen by the sword," 
Ezekiel32:23 whose graves are put in the remotest parts of the pit, and her assembly is all round about her grave. All of them are slain, fallen by the sword, who put terror in the land of the living." 
Ezekiel32:24 “Elam is there and all her multitude all around her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who went down uncircumcised to the lower parts of the earth, who put their terror in the land of the living and bore their dishonor with those who went down to the pit." 
Ezekiel32:25 They have put a bed for her among the slain with all her multitude. Her graves are all around it; all of them are uncircumcised, slain by the sword (although their terror was put in the land of the living), and they bore their dishonor with those who go down to the pit; they were put in the midst of the slain." 
Ezekiel32:26 “Meshech, Tubal, and all their multitude are there; their graves are all around them. All of them were slain by the sword uncircumcised, though they put their terror in the land of the living." 
Ezekiel32:27 Nor do they lie beside the fallen mighty ones of the uncircumcised, who went down to Sheol with their weapons of war and whose swords were put under their heads; but the punishment for their iniquity rested on their bones, though the terror of these mighty ones was once in the land of the living." 
Ezekiel32:28 But as for you, in the midst of the uncircumcised you will be broken and lie with those slain by the sword." 
Ezekiel32:29 “There also is Edom, its kings, and all its princes, who for all their might are put with those slain by the sword; they will lie with the uncircumcised and with those who go down to the pit." 
Ezekiel32:30 “There also are the chiefs of the north, all of them, and all the Sidonians, who in spite of the terror resulting from their might, in shame went down with the slain. So they lay down uncircumcised with those slain by the sword and bore their dishonor with those who go down to the pit." 
Ezekiel32:31 “These Pharaoh will see, and he will be comforted for all his multitude slain by the sword, even Pharaoh and all his military force,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel32:32 “Though I put a terror of him in the land of the living, yet he will be made to lie down among the uncircumcised along with those slain by the sword, even Pharaoh and all his hordes,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel33:1 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel33:2 “Son of man, speak to the sons of your people and say to them, ‘If I bring a sword upon a land, and the people of the land take one man from among them and make him their watchman," 
Ezekiel33:3 and he sees the sword coming upon the land and blows on the trumpet and warns the people," 
Ezekiel33:4 then he who hears the sound of the trumpet and does not take warning, and a sword comes and takes him away, his blood will be on his own head." 
Ezekiel33:5 He heard the sound of the trumpet but did not take warning; his blood will be on himself. But had he taken warning, he would have escaped with his life." 
Ezekiel33:6 But if the watchman sees the sword coming and does not blow the trumpet and the people are not warned, and a sword comes and takes a person from them, he is taken away in his iniquity; but his blood I will require from the watchman’s hand.’" 
Ezekiel33:7 “Now as for you, son of man, I have given you as a watchman for the house of Israel; so you will hear a word from My mouth and give them warning from Me." 
Ezekiel33:8 When I say to the wicked, ‘O wicked man, you will surely die,’ and you do not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require from your hand." 
Ezekiel33:9 But as for you, if you on your part warn a wicked man to turn from his way and he does not turn from his way, he will die in his iniquity, but you have delivered your life." 
Ezekiel33:10 “Now as for you, son of man, say to the house of Israel, ‘Thus you have spoken, saying, “Surely our transgressions and our sins are upon us, and we are rotting away in them; how then can we live?”’" 
Ezekiel33:11 Say to them, ‘As I live!’ declares Lord Yahweh, ‘I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but rather that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn back, turn back from your evil ways! Why then will you die, O house of Israel?’" 
Ezekiel33:12 Now as for you, son of man, say to the sons of your people, ‘The righteousness of a righteous man will not deliver him in the day of his transgression, and as for the wickedness of the wicked, he will not stumble because of it in the day when he turns from his wickedness; whereas a righteous man will not be able to live by his righteousness on the day when he commits sin.’" 
Ezekiel33:13 When I say to the righteous he will surely live, and he so trusts in his righteousness that he does iniquity, none of his righteous deeds will be remembered; but in that same iniquity of his which he has done he will die." 
Ezekiel33:14 But when I say to the wicked, ‘You will surely die,’ and he turns from his sin and does justice and righteousness," 
Ezekiel33:15 if a wicked man restores a pledge, pays back what he has taken by robbery, walks by the statutes of life without committing iniquity, he shall surely live; he shall not die." 
Ezekiel33:16 None of his sins that he has done will be remembered against him. He has done justice and righteousness; he shall surely live. 
Ezekiel33:17 “Yet the sons of your people say, ‘The way of the Lord is not right,’ when it is their own way that is not right." 
Ezekiel33:18 When the righteous turns from his righteousness and does iniquity, then he shall die in it." 
Ezekiel33:19 But when the wicked turns from his wickedness and does justice and righteousness, he will live by them." 
Ezekiel33:20 Yet you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not right.’ O house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to his ways.”" 
Ezekiel33:21 Now it happened in the twelfth year of our exile, on the fifth of the tenth month, that those who escaped from Jerusalem came to me, saying, “The city has been struck down.”" 
Ezekiel33:22 Now the hand of Yahweh had been upon me in the evening, before those who escaped came. And He opened my mouth at the time they came to me in the morning; so my mouth was opened, and I was no longer mute." 
Ezekiel33:23 Then the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel33:24 “Son of man, they who inhabit these waste places in the land of Israel are saying, ‘Abraham was only one, yet he possessed the land; so to us who are many the land has been given as a possession.’" 
Ezekiel33:25 Therefore say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “You eat meat with the blood in it and lift up your eyes to your idols as you shed blood. Should you then possess the land?" 
Ezekiel33:26 You stand on account of your sword, you do abominations, and each of you defiles his neighbor’s wife. Should you then possess the land?”’" 
Ezekiel33:27 Thus you shall say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “As I live, surely those who are in the waste places will fall by the sword, and whoever is in the open field I will give to the beasts to be devoured, and those who are in the strongholds and in the caves will die of pestilence." 
Ezekiel33:28 I will make the land a desolation and a desecration, and the lofty pride of her strength will cease; and the mountains of Israel will be desolate so that no one will pass through." 
Ezekiel33:29 Then they will know that I am Yahweh, when I make the land a desolation and a desecration because of all their abominations which they have done.”’" 
Ezekiel33:30 “But as for you, son of man, the sons of your people who talk about you by the walls and in the doorways of the houses, speak to one another, each to his brother, saying, ‘Come now and hear what the word is which comes forth from Yahweh.’" 
Ezekiel33:31 They come to you as people come and sit before you as My people and hear your words, but they do not do them, for they do the lustful desires expressed by their mouth, and their heart goes after their greedy gain." 
Ezekiel33:32 Behold, you are to them like a lustful song by one who has a beautiful voice and plays well on an instrument; for they hear your words but they do not do them." 
Ezekiel33:33 So when it comes to pass—behold, it is coming—then they will know that a prophet has been in their midst.”" 
Ezekiel34:1 Then the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel34:2 “Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to those shepherds, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Woe, shepherds of Israel who have been shepherding themselves! Should not the shepherds shepherd the flock?" 
Ezekiel34:3 You eat the fat and clothe yourselves with the wool; you sacrifice the fat sheep without shepherding the flock. 
Ezekiel34:4 Those who are sickly you have not strengthened, and the diseased you have not healed, and the broken you have not bound up, and the scattered you have not brought back, nor have you searched for the lost; but with strength and with severity you have dominated them." 
Ezekiel34:5 They were scattered for lack of a shepherd, and they became food for every beast of the field and were scattered." 
Ezekiel34:6 My flock wandered through all the mountains and on every high hill; My flock was scattered over all the surface of the earth, and there was no one to seek or search for them.”’”" 
Ezekiel34:7 Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh:" 
Ezekiel34:8 “As I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “surely because My flock has become plunder, My flock has even become food for all the beasts of the field for lack of a shepherd, and My shepherds did not seek for My flock, but rather the shepherds shepherded themselves and did not shepherd My flock;" 
Ezekiel34:9 therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh:" 
Ezekiel34:10 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will seek My flock from their hand and make them cease from shepherding the flock. So the shepherds will not shepherd themselves anymore, but I will deliver My flock from their mouth so that they will not be food for them.”’”" 
Ezekiel34:11 For thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I Myself will seek My sheep and care for them." 
Ezekiel34:12 As a shepherd cares for his herd in the day when he is among his sheep which are spread out, so I will care for My sheep and will deliver them from all the places to which they were scattered on a cloudy and gloomy day." 
Ezekiel34:13 I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries and bring them to their own land; and I will shepherd them on the mountains of Israel, by the streams, and in all the inhabited places of the land." 
Ezekiel34:14 I will shepherd them in a good pasture, and their grazing ground will be on the mountain heights of Israel. There they will lie down on good grazing ground and be shepherded in rich pasture on the mountains of Israel." 
Ezekiel34:15 I will shepherd My flock, and I will make them lie down,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel34:16 “I will search for the lost, bring back the scattered, bind up the broken, and strengthen the sick; but the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will shepherd them with judgment." 
Ezekiel34:17 “As for you, My flock, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Behold, I will judge between one sheep and another, between the rams and the male goats." 
Ezekiel34:18 Is it too slight a thing for you that you should be shepherded in the good pasture, that you must tread down with your feet the rest of your pastures? Or that you should drink of the clear waters, that you must foul the rest with your feet?" 
Ezekiel34:19 As for My flock, they must be shepherded on what you tread down with your feet and drink what you foul with your feet!’”" 
Ezekiel34:20 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh to them, “Behold, I, even I, will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep." 
Ezekiel34:21 Because you push with side and with shoulder, and thrust at all the sickly with your horns until you have scattered them abroad," 
Ezekiel34:22 therefore, I will save My flock, and they will no longer be plunder; and I will judge between one sheep and another." 
Ezekiel34:23 “Then I will establish over them one shepherd, My servant David, and he will shepherd them; he will shepherd them himself and be their shepherd." 
Ezekiel34:24 And I, Yahweh, will be their God, and My servant David will be prince among them; I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel34:25 “I will cut a covenant of peace with them and cause harmful beasts to cease from the land so that they may live securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods. 
Ezekiel34:26 I will make them and the places all around My hill a blessing. And I will cause showers to come down in their season; they will be showers of blessing. 
Ezekiel34:27 Also the tree of the field will yield its fruit, and the earth will yield its produce, and they will be secure on their land. Then they will know that I am Yahweh, when I have broken the bars of their yoke and have delivered them from the hand of those who enslaved them." 
Ezekiel34:28 They will no longer be plunder to the nations, and the beasts of the earth will not devour them; but they will live securely, and no one will make them tremble." 
Ezekiel34:29 I will establish for them a renowned planting place, and they will not again be victims of famine in the land, and they will not bear the dishonor of the nations anymore." 
Ezekiel34:30 Then they will know that I, Yahweh their God, am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are My people,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel34:31 “As for you, My sheep, the sheep of My pasture, you are men, and I am your God,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel35:1 Moreover, the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel35:2 “Son of man, set your face against Mount Seir and prophesy against it" 
Ezekiel35:3 and say to it, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I am against you, Mount Seir, And I will stretch out My hand against you And make you a desolation and a desecration." 
Ezekiel35:4 I will lay waste your cities, And you will become a desolation. Then you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel35:5 Because you have had everlasting enmity and have delivered the sons of Israel to the power of the sword at the time of their disaster, at the time of the punishment of the end," 
Ezekiel35:6 therefore as I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “I will prepare you for bloodshed, and bloodshed will pursue you; you surely have not hated bloodshed, so bloodshed will pursue you." 
Ezekiel35:7 I will make Mount Seir a waste and a desolation, and I will cut off from it the one who passes through and returns." 
Ezekiel35:8 I will fill its mountains with its slain; on your hills and in your valleys and in all your ravines those slain by the sword will fall. 
Ezekiel35:9 I will make you an everlasting desolation, and your cities will not be inhabited. Then you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel35:10 “Because you have said, ‘These two nations and these two lands will be mine, and we will possess them,’ although Yahweh was there," 
Ezekiel35:11 therefore as I live,” declares Lord Yahweh, “I will deal with you according to your anger and according to your jealousy which you dealt with them because of your hatred against them; so I will make Myself known among them when I judge you." 
Ezekiel35:12 Then you will know that I, Yahweh, have heard all your contempt which you have spoken against the mountains of Israel saying, ‘They are laid desolate; they are given to us for food.’" 
Ezekiel35:13 And you have magnified yourselves with your mouth against Me and have multiplied your words against Me; I have heard it.” 
Ezekiel35:14 Thus says Lord Yahweh, “As all the earth delights, I will make you a desolation." 
Ezekiel35:15 As you delighted over the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, so I will do to you. You will be a desolation, O Mount Seir, and all Edom, all of it. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.”’" 
Ezekiel36:1 “Now as for you, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel and say, ‘O mountains of Israel, hear the word of Yahweh." 
Ezekiel36:2 Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Because the enemy has spoken against you, ‘Aha!’ and, ‘The everlasting heights have become our possession,’" 
Ezekiel36:3 therefore prophesy and say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “For good reason they have made you desolate and bruised you from every side, that you would become a possession of the rest of the nations, and you have been taken up in the speech of their tongue and the rumors of the people.”’”" 
Ezekiel36:4 Therefore, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of Lord Yahweh. Thus says Lord Yahweh to the mountains and to the hills, to the ravines and to the valleys, to the desolate wastes and to the forsaken cities which have become plunder and objects of scoffing to the rest of the nations which are round about," 
Ezekiel36:5 therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, “Surely in the fire of My jealousy I have spoken against the rest of the nations and against all Edom, who gave My land to themselves as a possession with wholehearted gladness and with scorn of soul, to drive it out for plunder.”" 
Ezekiel36:6 Therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel and say to the mountains and to the hills, to the ravines and to the valleys, “Thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Behold, I have spoken in My jealousy and in My wrath because you have borne the dishonor of the nations.’" 
Ezekiel36:7 Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘I have sworn that surely the nations which are around you will themselves bear their dishonor." 
Ezekiel36:8 But you, O mountains of Israel, you will put forth your branches and bear your fruit for My people Israel; for they will soon come." 
Ezekiel36:9 For, behold, I am for you, and I will turn to you, and you will be cultivated and sown." 
Ezekiel36:10 I will multiply men on you, all the house of Israel, all of it; and the cities will be inhabited, and the waste places will be rebuilt." 
Ezekiel36:11 I will multiply on you man and beast; and they will multiply and be fruitful; and I will cause you to be inhabited as you were formerly and will treat you better than at the first. Thus you will know that I am Yahweh. 
Ezekiel36:12 And I will cause men—My people Israel—to walk on you and possess you so that you will become their inheritance and never again bereave them of children.’ 
Ezekiel36:13 “Thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Because they say to you, “You are a devourer of men and have bereaved your nation of children,”" 
Ezekiel36:14 therefore you will no longer devour men and no longer bereave your nation of children,’ declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel36:15 I will not let you hear dishonor from the nations anymore, nor will you bear reproach from the peoples any longer, nor will you cause your nation to stumble any longer,” declares Lord Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel36:16 Then the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel36:17 “Son of man, when the house of Israel was living in their own land, they defiled it by their ways and their deeds; their way before Me was like the uncleanness of a woman in her impurity." 
Ezekiel36:18 Therefore I poured out My wrath on them for the blood which they had shed on the land, because they had defiled it with their idols." 
Ezekiel36:19 Also I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed throughout the lands. According to their ways and their deeds I judged them." 
Ezekiel36:20 Then they came to the nations to which they came. And they profaned My holy name because it was said of them, ‘These are the people of Yahweh; yet they have come out of His land.’" 
Ezekiel36:21 But I had concern for My holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations where they went." 
Ezekiel36:22 “Therefore say to the house of Israel, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for My holy name, which you have profaned among the nations, to which you have come." 
Ezekiel36:23 I will prove the holiness of My great name which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned in their midst. Then the nations will know that I am Yahweh,” declares Lord Yahweh, “when I prove Myself holy among you in their sight." 
Ezekiel36:24 And I will take you from the nations, gather you from all the lands, and bring you into your own land." 
Ezekiel36:25 Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean; I will cleanse you from all your uncleanness and from all your idols." 
Ezekiel36:26 Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you; and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh." 
Ezekiel36:27 I will put My Spirit within you and cause you to walk in My statutes, and you will be careful to do My judgments." 
Ezekiel36:28 And you will inhabit the land that I gave to your fathers; so you will be My people, and I will be your God." 
Ezekiel36:29 Moreover, I will save you from all your uncleanness; and I will call for the grain and multiply it, and I will not bring a famine on you." 
Ezekiel36:30 I will multiply the fruit of the tree and the produce of the field so that you will not receive again the reproach of famine among the nations. 
Ezekiel36:31 Then you will remember your evil ways and your deeds that were not good, and you will loathe yourselves to your own faces for your iniquities and your abominations." 
Ezekiel36:32 I am not doing this for your sake,” declares Lord Yahweh, “let it be known to you. Be ashamed and feel dishonor for your ways, O house of Israel!”" 
Ezekiel36:33 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “On the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the waste places will be rebuilt." 
Ezekiel36:34 The desolate land will be cultivated instead of being a desolation in the sight of everyone who passes by. 
Ezekiel36:35 And they will say, ‘This desolate land has become like the garden of Eden; and the waste, desolate, and ruined cities are fortified and inhabited.’" 
Ezekiel36:36 Then the nations that remain all around you will know that I, Yahweh, have rebuilt the ruined places and planted that which was desolate; I, Yahweh, have spoken and will do it.”" 
Ezekiel36:37 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “This also I will let the house of Israel inquire of Me to do for them: I will increase their men like a flock." 
Ezekiel36:38 Like the flock for holy offerings, like the flock at Jerusalem during her appointed times, so will the waste cities be filled with flocks of men. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.”’”" 
Ezekiel37:1 The hand of Yahweh was upon me, and He brought me out by the Spirit of Yahweh and caused me to rest in the middle of the valley; and it was full of bones." 
Ezekiel37:2 He caused me to pass among them all around, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley; and behold, they were very dry." 
Ezekiel37:3 He said to me, “Son of man, can these bones live?” And I answered, “O Lord Yahweh, You know.”" 
Ezekiel37:4 Then He said to me, “Prophesy over these bones and say to them, ‘O dry bones, hear the word of Yahweh.’" 
Ezekiel37:5 Thus says Lord Yahweh to these bones, ‘Behold, I will cause breath to enter you that you may come to life." 
Ezekiel37:6 I will put sinews on you, make flesh come up upon you, cover you with skin, and put breath in you that you may come alive; and you will know that I am Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel37:7 So I prophesied as I was commanded; and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold, a rumbling; and the bones came together, bone to its bone." 
Ezekiel37:8 And I looked, and behold, sinews were on them, and flesh came up upon them, and skin covered them; but there was no breath in them." 
Ezekiel37:9 Then He said to me, “Prophesy to the breath, prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these who were killed, that they may come to life.”’”" 
Ezekiel37:10 So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they came to life and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great military force." 
Ezekiel37:11 Then He said to me, “Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel; behold, they say, ‘Our bones are dried up, and our hope has perished. We are completely cut off.’" 
Ezekiel37:12 Therefore prophesy and say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will open your graves and cause you to come up out of your graves, My people; and I will bring you into the land of Israel." 
Ezekiel37:13 Then you will know that I am Yahweh, when I have opened your graves and caused you to come up out of your graves, My people." 
Ezekiel37:14 And I will put My Spirit within you, and you will come to life, and I will place you on your own land. Then you will know that I, Yahweh, have spoken and done it,” declares Yahweh.’”" 
Ezekiel37:15 The word of Yahweh came again to me saying," 
Ezekiel37:16 “Now as for you, son of man, take for yourself one stick and write on it, ‘For Judah and for the sons of Israel, his companions’; then take another stick and write on it, ‘For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim and all the house of Israel, his companions.’" 
Ezekiel37:17 Then draw them together for yourself one to another into one stick, that they may become one in your hand." 
Ezekiel37:18 And when the sons of your people speak to you saying, ‘Will you not declare to us what you mean by these?’" 
Ezekiel37:19 say to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel, his companions; and I will put them with it, with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they will be one in My hand.”’" 
Ezekiel37:20 And the sticks on which you write will be in your hand before their eyes. 
Ezekiel37:21 And speak to them, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will take the sons of Israel from among the nations where they have gone, and I will gather them from every side and bring them into their own land;" 
Ezekiel37:22 and I will make them one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel; and one king will be king for all of them; and they will no longer be two nations and no longer be divided into two kingdoms." 
Ezekiel37:23 They also will no longer defile themselves with their idols or with their detestable things or with any of their transgressions; but I will save them from all their places of habitation in which they have sinned, and I will cleanse them. And they will be My people, and I will be their God." 
Ezekiel37:24 “And My servant David will be king over them, and they will all have one shepherd; and they will walk in My judgments and keep My statutes and do them." 
Ezekiel37:25 They will inhabit the land that I gave to Jacob My servant, which your fathers inhabited; and they will inhabit it, they, and their sons and their sons’ sons, forever; and David My servant will be their prince forever." 
Ezekiel37:26 And I will cut a covenant of peace with them; it will be an everlasting covenant with them. And I will give them the land and multiply them and will set My sanctuary in their midst forever. 
Ezekiel37:27 My dwelling place also will be with them; and I will be their God, and they will be My people." 
Ezekiel37:28 And the nations will know that I am Yahweh who sanctifies Israel, when My sanctuary is in their midst forever.”’”" 
Ezekiel38:1 And the word of Yahweh came to me saying," 
Ezekiel38:2 “Son of man, set your face toward Gog of the land of Magog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy against him" 
Ezekiel38:3 and say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and Tubal." 
Ezekiel38:4 I will turn you about and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you out, and all your military force, horses and horsemen, all of them magnificently dressed, a great assembly with large shield and shield, all of them wielding swords;" 
Ezekiel38:5 Persia, Ethiopia, and Put with them, all of them with shield and helmet;" 
Ezekiel38:6 Gomer with all its troops; Beth-togarmah from the remote parts of the north with all its troops—many peoples with you. 
Ezekiel38:7 “Be prepared, and prepare yourself, you and all your assembly that are assembled about you, and be a guard for them." 
Ezekiel38:8 After many days you will be mustered; in the last years you will come into the land that is restored from the sword, whose inhabitants have been gathered from many peoples to the mountains of Israel which had been a continual waste; but its people were brought out from the peoples, and they are living securely, all of them." 
Ezekiel38:9 And you will go up; you will come like a storm; you will be like a cloud covering the land, you and all your troops and many peoples with you.”" 
Ezekiel38:10 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “It will be in that day, that thoughts will come into your heart, and you will devise an evil plan," 
Ezekiel38:11 and you will say, ‘I will go up against the land of unwalled villages. I will go against those who dwell quietly, that live securely, all of them living without walls and having no bars or gates," 
Ezekiel38:12 to capture spoil and to seize plunder, to turn your hand against the waste places, which are now inhabited, and against the people who are gathered from the nations, who have acquired cattle and property, who live at the center of the world.’" 
Ezekiel38:13 Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish with all its young lions will say to you, ‘Have you come to capture spoil? Have you assembled your assembly to seize plunder, to carry away silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to capture great spoil?’”’" 
Ezekiel38:14 “Therefore prophesy, son of man, and say to Gog, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “On that day when My people Israel are living securely, will you not know it?" 
Ezekiel38:15 You will come from your place out of the remote parts of the north, you and numerous peoples with you, all of them riding on horses, a great assembly and a numerous military force;" 
Ezekiel38:16 and you will come up against My people Israel like a cloud to cover the land. It will be in the last days that I will bring you against My land so that the nations may know Me when I prove Myself holy through you before their eyes, O Gog.”" 
Ezekiel38:17 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Are you the one of whom I spoke in former days by the hand of My slaves the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days for many years that I would bring you against them?" 
Ezekiel38:18 And it will be in that day, when Gog comes against the land of Israel,” declares Lord Yahweh, “that My wrath will mount up in My anger." 
Ezekiel38:19 In My zeal and in My blazing fury I have spoken that on that day there will surely be a great earthquake in the land of Israel. 
Ezekiel38:20 And the fish of the sea, the birds of the sky, the beasts of the field, all the creeping things that creep on the ground, and all the men who are on the face of the earth will quake at My presence; the mountains also will be pulled down, the steep pathways will fall, and every wall will fall to the earth." 
Ezekiel38:21 And I will call for a sword against him on all My mountains,” declares Lord Yahweh. “Every man’s sword will be against his brother." 
Ezekiel38:22 With pestilence and with blood I will enter into judgment with him; and I will rain on him and on his troops, and on the numerous peoples who are with him, a torrential rain, with hailstones, fire, and brimstone." 
Ezekiel38:23 And I will magnify Myself, I will manifest Myself as holy, and I will make Myself known in the sight of many nations; and they will know that I am Yahweh.”’" 
Ezekiel39:1 “Now as for you, son of man, prophesy against Gog and say, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and Tubal;" 
Ezekiel39:2 and I will turn you around, drive you on, take you up from the remotest parts of the north, and bring you against the mountains of Israel." 
Ezekiel39:3 And I will strike your bow from your left hand and cause your arrows from your right hand to fall. 
Ezekiel39:4 You will fall on the mountains of Israel, you and all your troops and the peoples who are with you; I will give you as food to every kind of predatory bird and beast of the field." 
Ezekiel39:5 You will fall on the open field; for it is I who have spoken,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel39:6 “And I will send fire upon Magog and those who inhabit the coastlands securely; and they will know that I am Yahweh. 
Ezekiel39:7 “And My holy name I will make known in the midst of My people Israel; and I will not let My holy name be profaned anymore. And the nations will know that I am Yahweh, the Holy One in Israel." 
Ezekiel39:8 Behold, it is coming, and it shall be done,” declares Lord Yahweh. “That is the day of which I have spoken." 
Ezekiel39:9 “Then those who inhabit the cities of Israel will go out and make fires with the weapons and burn them, both shields and large shields, bows and arrows, war clubs and spears; and for seven years they will make fires of them." 
Ezekiel39:10 They will not carry wood from the field or gather firewood from the forests, for they will make fires with the weapons; and they will take the spoil of those who made them into spoil and seize the plunder of those who plundered them,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel39:11 “And it will be in that day, that I will give Gog a burial ground there in Israel, the valley of those who pass by east of the sea, and it will block off those who would pass by. So they will bury Gog there with all his multitude, and they will call it the valley of Hamon-gog." 
Ezekiel39:12 And for seven months the house of Israel will be burying them in order to cleanse the land. 
Ezekiel39:13 Even all the people of the land will bury them; and it will be unto their name on the day that I glorify Myself,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel39:14 “Now they will set apart men who will continually pass through the land, burying those who were passing through, even those left on the surface of the ground, in order to cleanse it. At the end of seven months they will make a search." 
Ezekiel39:15 And those who pass through the land will pass through, and when anyone sees a man’s bone, he will set up a marker by it until the buriers have buried it in the valley of Hamon-gog." 
Ezekiel39:16 And even the name of the city will be Hamonah. So they will cleanse the land.”’ 
Ezekiel39:17 “Now as for you, son of man, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘Say to every kind of bird and to every beast of the field, “Gather and come, assemble from every side to My sacrifice which I am going to sacrifice for you, as a great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel, that you may eat flesh and drink blood." 
Ezekiel39:18 You will eat the flesh of mighty men and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, as though they were rams, lambs, goats, and bulls, all of them fatlings of Bashan." 
Ezekiel39:19 So you will eat fat until you are satisfied and drink blood until you are drunk, from My sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you." 
Ezekiel39:20 And you will be satisfied at My table with horses and charioteers, with mighty men and all the men of war,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel39:21 “And I will put My glory among the nations; and all the nations will see My judgment which I have executed and My hand which I have placed on them. 
Ezekiel39:22 And the house of Israel will know that I am Yahweh their God from that day onward. 
Ezekiel39:23 And the nations will know that the house of Israel went into exile for their iniquity because they acted unfaithfully against Me, and I hid My face from them; so I gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and all of them fell by the sword." 
Ezekiel39:24 According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions I dealt with them, and I hid My face from them.”’”" 
Ezekiel39:25 Therefore thus says Lord Yahweh, “Now I will return the fortunes of Jacob and have compassion on the whole house of Israel; and I will be jealous for My holy name." 
Ezekiel39:26 So they will forget their dishonor and all their unfaithfulness which they perpetrated against Me, when they live securely on their own land with no one to make them tremble." 
Ezekiel39:27 When I return them from the peoples and gather them from the lands of their enemies, then I shall prove Myself holy through them in the sight of the many nations." 
Ezekiel39:28 Then they will know that I am Yahweh their God because I made them go into exile among the nations, and then collected them again to their own land; and I will leave none of them there any longer." 
Ezekiel39:29 And I will not hide My face from them any longer, for I will have poured out My Spirit on the house of Israel,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel40:1 In the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was struck down, on that same day the hand of Yahweh was upon me, and He brought me there." 
Ezekiel40:2 In the visions of God He brought me into the land of Israel and caused me to rest on a very high mountain, and on it to the south there was a structure like a city." 
Ezekiel40:3 So He brought me there; and behold, there was a man whose appearance was like the appearance of bronze, with a line of flax and a measuring rod in his hand; and he was standing in the gateway." 
Ezekiel40:4 And the man spoke to me, “Son of man, see with your eyes, hear with your ears, and set your heart on all that I am going to show you; for you have been brought here in order to show it to you. Declare to the house of Israel all that you are seeing.”" 
Ezekiel40:5 And behold, there was a wall on the outside of the house of Yahweh all around, and in the man’s hand was a measuring rod of six cubits, each of which was a cubit and a handbreadth. So he measured the thickness of the wall, one rod; and the height, one rod." 
Ezekiel40:6 Then he went to the gate which faced east, went up its steps, and measured the threshold of the gate, one rod in width; and the other threshold was one rod in width." 
Ezekiel40:7 The guardroom was one rod long and one rod wide; and there were five cubits between the guardrooms. And the threshold of the gate by the porch of the gate facing inward was one rod. 
Ezekiel40:8 Then he measured the porch of the gate facing inward, one rod." 
Ezekiel40:9 He measured the porch of the gate, eight cubits; and its side pillars, two cubits. And the porch of the gate was faced inward." 
Ezekiel40:10 The guardrooms of the gate toward the east numbered three on each side; the three of them had the same measurement. The side pillars also had the same measurement on each side. 
Ezekiel40:11 And he measured the width of the entrance of the gate, ten cubits, and the length of the gate, thirteen cubits." 
Ezekiel40:12 There was a barrier wall one cubit wide in front of the guardrooms on each side; and the guardrooms were six cubits square on each side. 
Ezekiel40:13 He measured the gate from the roof of the one guardroom to the roof of the other, a width of twenty-five cubits from one door to the door opposite." 
Ezekiel40:14 He made the side pillars sixty cubits high; the gate extended round about to the side pillar of the courtyard. 
Ezekiel40:15 From the front of the entrance gate to the front of the inner porch of the gate was fifty cubits. 
Ezekiel40:16 There were shuttered windows looking toward the guardrooms and toward their side pillars within the gate all around, and likewise for the porches. And there were windows all around inside; and on each side pillar were palm tree ornaments." 
Ezekiel40:17 Then he brought me into the outer court, and behold, there were chambers and a pavement made for the court all around; thirty chambers faced the pavement." 
Ezekiel40:18 The pavement (that is, the lower pavement) was by the side of the gates, corresponding to the length of the gates." 
Ezekiel40:19 Then he measured the width from the front of the lower gate to the front of the exterior of the inner court, one hundred cubits on the east and on the north." 
Ezekiel40:20 As for the gate of the outer court which faced the north, he measured its length and its width." 
Ezekiel40:21 It had three guardrooms on each side; and its side pillars and its porches had the same measurement as the first gate. Its length was fifty cubits and the width twenty-five cubits. 
Ezekiel40:22 Its windows and its porches and its palm tree ornaments had the same measurements as the gate which faced toward the east; and it was reached by seven steps, and its porch was in front of them." 
Ezekiel40:23 The inner court had a gate opposite the gate on the north as well as the gate on the east; and he measured one hundred cubits from gate to gate. 
Ezekiel40:24 Then he led me toward the south, and behold, there was a gate toward the south; and he measured its side pillars and its porches according to those same measurements." 
Ezekiel40:25 The gate and its porches had windows all around like those other windows; the length was fifty cubits and the width twenty-five cubits. 
Ezekiel40:26 There were seven steps going up to it, and its porches were in front of them; and it had palm tree ornaments on its side pillars, one on each side." 
Ezekiel40:27 The inner court had a gate toward the south; and he measured from gate to gate toward the south, one hundred cubits." 
Ezekiel40:28 Then he brought me to the inner court by the south gate; and he measured the south gate according to those same measurements. 
Ezekiel40:29 Its guardrooms also, its side pillars, and its porches were according to those same measurements. And the gate and its porches had windows all around; it was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide." 
Ezekiel40:30 There were porches all around, twenty-five cubits long and five cubits wide." 
Ezekiel40:31 Its porches were toward the outer court; and palm tree ornaments were on its side pillars, and its stairway had eight steps." 
Ezekiel40:32 Then he brought me into the inner court toward the east. And he measured the gate according to those same measurements. 
Ezekiel40:33 Its guardrooms also, its side pillars, and its porches were according to those same measurements. And the gate and its porches had windows all around; it was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide." 
Ezekiel40:34 Its porches were toward the outer court; and palm tree ornaments were on its side pillars, on each side, and its stairway had eight steps." 
Ezekiel40:35 Then he brought me to the north gate; and he measured it according to those same measurements," 
Ezekiel40:36 with its guardrooms, its side pillars, and its porches. And the gate had windows all around; the length was fifty cubits and the width twenty-five cubits." 
Ezekiel40:37 Its side pillars were toward the outer court; and palm tree ornaments were on its side pillars on each side, and its stairway had eight steps." 
Ezekiel40:38 A chamber with its doorway was by the side pillars at the gates; there they rinse the burnt offering. 
Ezekiel40:39 In the porch of the gate were two tables on each side, on which to slaughter the burnt offering, the sin offering and the guilt offering." 
Ezekiel40:40 On the outer side, as one went up to the entrance of the gate toward the north, were two tables; and on the other side of the porch of the gate were two tables." 
Ezekiel40:41 Four tables were on each side next to the gate; or, eight tables on which they slaughter sacrifices." 
Ezekiel40:42 For the burnt offering there were four tables of cut stone, a cubit and a half long, a cubit and a half wide, and one cubit high, on which they lay the instruments with which they slaughter the burnt offering and the sacrifice." 
Ezekiel40:43 The double hooks, one handbreadth in length, were installed in the house all around; and on the tables was the flesh of the offering." 
Ezekiel40:44 From the outside to the inner gate were chambers for the singers in the inner court, one of which was at the side of the north gate, with its front toward the south, and one at the side of the south gate facing toward the north." 
Ezekiel40:45 Then he said to me, “This is the chamber which faces toward the south, intended for the priests who keep the responsibility of the house;" 
Ezekiel40:46 but the chamber which faces toward the north is for the priests who keep the responsibility of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, who from the sons of Levi come near to Yahweh to minister to Him.”" 
Ezekiel40:47 He measured the court, a perfect square, one hundred cubits long and one hundred cubits wide; and the altar was in front of the house." 
Ezekiel40:48 Then he brought me to the porch of the house and measured each side pillar of the porch, five cubits on each side; and the width of the gate was three cubits on each side." 
Ezekiel40:49 The length of the porch was twenty cubits and the width eleven cubits; and at the stairway by which it was ascended were columns belonging to the side pillars, one on each side." 
Ezekiel41:1 Then he brought me to the nave and measured the side pillars; six cubits wide on each side was the width of the side pillar. 
Ezekiel41:2 The width of the entrance was ten cubits, and the sides of the entrance were five cubits on each side. And he measured the length of the nave, forty cubits, and the width, twenty cubits." 
Ezekiel41:3 Then he went inside and measured each side pillar of the doorway, two cubits, and the doorway, six cubits high; and the width of the doorway, seven cubits." 
Ezekiel41:4 He measured its length, twenty cubits, and the width, twenty cubits, before the nave; and he said to me, “This is the Holy of Holies.”" 
Ezekiel41:5 Then he measured the wall of the house of Yahweh, six cubits; and the width of the side chambers, four cubits, all around about the house on every side." 
Ezekiel41:6 The side chambers were in three stories, one above another, and thirty in each story; and the side chambers extended to the wall which stood on their inward side all around, that they might be fastened, and not be fastened into the wall of the house itself." 
Ezekiel41:7 The side chambers surrounding the house were wider at each successive story. Because the structure surrounding the house went upward by stages on all sides of the house, therefore the width of the house increased as it went higher; and thus one went up from the lowest story to the highest by way of the second story." 
Ezekiel41:8 I saw also that the house had a raised platform all around; the foundations of the side chambers were a full rod of six long cubits in height. 
Ezekiel41:9 The thickness of the outer wall of the side chambers was five cubits. But the free space between the side chambers belonging to the house 
Ezekiel41:10 and the outer chambers was twenty cubits in width all around the house on every side. 
Ezekiel41:11 The doorways of the side chambers toward the free space consisted of one doorway toward the north and another doorway toward the south; and the width of the place of the free space was five cubits all around. 
Ezekiel41:12 The building that was in front of the separate area at the side toward the west was seventy cubits wide; and the wall of the building was five cubits thick all around, and its length was ninety cubits." 
Ezekiel41:13 Then he measured the house, one hundred cubits long; the separate area with the building and its walls were also one hundred cubits long." 
Ezekiel41:14 Also the width of the front of the house and that of the separate areas along the east side totaled one hundred cubits. 
Ezekiel41:15 He measured the length of the building along the front of the separate area behind it, with a gallery on each side, one hundred cubits, along with the inner nave and the porches of the court." 
Ezekiel41:16 The thresholds, the latticed windows, and the galleries round about their three stories, opposite the threshold, were paneled with wood all around, and from the ground to the windows (but the windows were covered)," 
Ezekiel41:17 over the entrance, and to the inner house, and on the outside, and on all the wall all around inside and outside, by measurement." 
Ezekiel41:18 It was carved with cherubim and palm trees; and a palm tree was between cherub and cherub, and every cherub had two faces," 
Ezekiel41:19 a man’s face toward the palm tree on one side and a young lion’s face toward the palm tree on the other side; they were carved on all the house all around. 
Ezekiel41:20 From the ground to above the entrance cherubim and palm trees were carved, as well as on the wall of the nave." 
Ezekiel41:21 The doorposts of the nave were square; as for the front of the sanctuary, the appearance of one doorpost was like that of the other." 
Ezekiel41:22 The altar was of wood, three cubits high and its length two cubits; its corners, its base, and its sides were of wood. And he said to me, “This is the table that is before Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel41:23 The nave and the sanctuary each had a double door. 
Ezekiel41:24 Each of the doors had two leaves, two swinging leaves; two leaves for one door and two leaves for the other." 
Ezekiel41:25 Also there were carved on them, on the doors of the nave, cherubim and palm trees like those carved on the walls; and there was a canopy of wood over the front of the porch outside." 
Ezekiel41:26 There were latticed windows and palm trees on one side and on the other, on the sides of the porch; thus were the side chambers of the house and the canopies." 
Ezekiel42:1 Then he brought me out into the outer court, the way toward the north; and he brought me to the chamber which was opposite the separate area and opposite the building toward the north." 
Ezekiel42:2 Along the length, which was one hundred cubits, was the north door; the width was fifty cubits." 
Ezekiel42:3 Opposite the twenty cubits which belonged to the inner court, and opposite the pavement which belonged to the outer court, was gallery corresponding to gallery in three stories." 
Ezekiel42:4 Before the chambers was an inner walk ten cubits wide, a way of one hundred cubits; and their openings were on the north." 
Ezekiel42:5 Now the upper chambers were smaller because the galleries took more space away from them than from the lower and middle ones in the building. 
Ezekiel42:6 For they were in three stories and had no pillars like the pillars of the courts; therefore the upper chambers were set back from the ground upward, more than the lower and middle ones." 
Ezekiel42:7 As for the outer wall by the side of the chambers, toward the outer court facing the chambers, its length was fifty cubits." 
Ezekiel42:8 For the length of the chambers which were in the outer court was fifty cubits; and behold, the length of those facing the temple was one hundred cubits." 
Ezekiel42:9 Below these chambers was the entrance on the east side, as one enters them from the outer court." 
Ezekiel42:10 In the thickness of the wall of the court toward the east, facing the separate area and facing the building, there were chambers." 
Ezekiel42:11 The way in front of them was like the appearance of the chambers which were on the north, according to their length so was their width, and all their exits were both according to their arrangements and openings." 
Ezekiel42:12 Corresponding to the openings of the chambers which were toward the south was an opening at the head of the way, the way in front of the wall toward the east, as one enters them." 
Ezekiel42:13 Then he said to me, “The north chambers and the south chambers, which are opposite the separate area, they are the holy chambers where the priests who are near to Yahweh shall eat the most holy things. There they shall lay the most holy things, the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering; for the place is holy." 
Ezekiel42:14 When the priests enter, then they shall not go out into the outer court from the sanctuary without laying there their garments in which they minister, for they are holy. They shall put on other garments; then they shall come near to that which is for the people.”" 
Ezekiel42:15 Then he had finished measuring the inner house; he brought me out by the way of the gate which faced toward the east and measured it all around. 
Ezekiel42:16 He measured on the east side with the measuring reed 500 reeds by the measuring reed. 
Ezekiel42:17 He measured on the north side 500 reeds by the measuring reed. 
Ezekiel42:18 On the south side he measured 500 reeds with the measuring reed. 
Ezekiel42:19 He turned to the west side and measured 500 reeds with the measuring reed. 
Ezekiel42:20 He measured it on the four sides; it had a wall all around, the length 500 and the width 500, to divide between the holy and the profane." 
Ezekiel43:1 Then he led me to the gate, the gate facing toward the east;" 
Ezekiel43:2 and behold, the glory of the God of Israel was coming from the way of the east. And His voice was like the sound of many waters; and the earth shone with His glory." 
Ezekiel43:3 And it was like the appearance of the vision which I saw, like the vision which I saw when He came to bring the city to ruin. And the visions were like the vision which I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face." 
Ezekiel43:4 And the glory of Yahweh came into the house by the way of the gate facing toward the east. 
Ezekiel43:5 And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court; and behold, the glory of Yahweh filled the house." 
Ezekiel43:6 Then I heard one speaking to me from the house, while a man was standing beside me." 
Ezekiel43:7 He said to me, “Son of man, this is the place of My throne and the place of the soles of My feet, where I will dwell among the sons of Israel forever. And the house of Israel will not again defile My holy name, neither they nor their kings, by their harlotry and by the corpses of their kings when they die," 
Ezekiel43:8 by putting their threshold by My threshold and their door post beside My door post, with only the wall between Me and them. And they have defiled My holy name by their abominations which they have done. So I have consumed them in My anger." 
Ezekiel43:9 Now let them put away their harlotry and the corpses of their kings far from Me; and I will dwell among them forever. 
Ezekiel43:10 “As for you, son of man, describe the house of Yahweh to the house of Israel, that they may feel dishonor for their iniquities; and let them measure the plan." 
Ezekiel43:11 If they feel dishonor for all that they have done, make known to them the design of the house, its structure, its exits, its entrances, all its designs, all its statutes, and all its laws. And write it in their sight so that they may keep its whole design and all its statutes and do them." 
Ezekiel43:12 This is the law of the house: within its entire boundary, on the top of the mountain all around, shall be most holy. Behold, this is the law of the house." 
Ezekiel43:13 “And these are the measurements of the altar by cubits (the cubit being a cubit and a handbreadth): the base shall be a cubit and the width a cubit, and its border on its edge round about one span; and this shall be the height of the base of the altar." 
Ezekiel43:14 And from the base on the ground to the lower ledge shall be two cubits and the width one cubit; and from the smaller ledge to the larger ledge shall be four cubits and the width one cubit. 
Ezekiel43:15 And the altar hearth shall be four cubits; and from the altar hearth shall extend upwards four horns. 
Ezekiel43:16 Now the altar hearth shall be twelve cubits long by twelve wide, square in its four sides." 
Ezekiel43:17 The ledge shall be fourteen cubits long by fourteen wide in its four sides; the border around it shall be half a cubit, and its base shall be a cubit round about; and its steps shall face the east.”" 
Ezekiel43:18 And He said to me, “Son of man, thus says Lord Yahweh, ‘These are the statutes for the altar on the day it is made, to offer burnt offerings on it and to splash blood on it." 
Ezekiel43:19 And you shall give to the Levitical priests who are from the seed of Zadok, who draw near to Me to minister to Me,’ declares Lord Yahweh, ‘a bull from the herd for a sin offering." 
Ezekiel43:20 You shall also take some of its blood and put it on its four horns and on the four corners of the ledge and on the border round about; thus you shall purify it and make atonement for it. 
Ezekiel43:21 And you shall take the bull for the sin offering, and it shall be burned in the appointed place of the house, outside the sanctuary." 
Ezekiel43:22 ‘Now on the second day you shall bring near a male goat without blemish for a sin offering, and they shall purify the altar as they purified it with the bull." 
Ezekiel43:23 When you have finished purifying it, you shall present a bull from the herd without blemish and a ram without blemish from the flock." 
Ezekiel43:24 And you shall bring them near before Yahweh, and the priests shall throw salt on them, and they shall offer them up as a burnt offering to Yahweh." 
Ezekiel43:25 For seven days you shall offer daily a goat for a sin offering; also a bull from the herd and a ram from the flock, without blemish, shall be offered." 
Ezekiel43:26 For seven days they shall make atonement for the altar and purify it; so shall they ordain it. 
Ezekiel43:27 So they will complete the days. And it shall be that on the eighth day and onward, the priests shall offer on the altar your burnt offerings and your peace offerings; and I will accept you,’ declares Lord Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel44:1 Then He brought me back by the way of the outer gate of the sanctuary, which faces the east; and it was shut." 
Ezekiel44:2 Yahweh said to me, “This gate shall be shut; it shall not be opened, and no one shall enter by it, for Yahweh, the God of Israel, has entered by it; therefore it shall be shut." 
Ezekiel44:3 As for the prince, he shall sit in it as prince to eat bread before Yahweh; he shall enter by way of the porch of the gate and shall go out by the same way.”" 
Ezekiel44:4 Then He brought me by way of the north gate to the front of the house; and I looked, and behold, the glory of Yahweh filled the house of Yahweh, and I fell on my face." 
Ezekiel44:5 Then Yahweh said to me, “Son of man, set your heart on and see with your eyes and hear with your ears all that I say to you concerning all the statutes of the house of Yahweh and concerning all its laws; and set your heart on the entrance of the house, with all exits of the sanctuary." 
Ezekiel44:6 And you shall say to the rebellious ones, to the house of Israel, ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Enough of all your abominations, O house of Israel," 
Ezekiel44:7 when you brought in foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in My sanctuary to profane it, even My house, when you brought near My food, the fat and the blood. So they made My covenant void—this in addition to all your abominations." 
Ezekiel44:8 And you have not kept the responsibility of My holy things yourselves, but you have set foreigners as keepers of the responsibility given by Me for My sanctuary.”" 
Ezekiel44:9 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “No foreigner, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, of all the foreigners who are among the sons of Israel, shall enter My sanctuary." 
Ezekiel44:10 But the Levites who went far from Me when Israel went astray, who went astray from Me after their idols, shall bear the punishment for their iniquity." 
Ezekiel44:11 Yet they shall be ministers in My sanctuary, having oversight at the gates of the house and ministering in the house; they shall slaughter the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall stand before them to minister to them." 
Ezekiel44:12 Because they ministered to them before their idols and became a stumbling block of iniquity to the house of Israel, therefore I have sworn against them,” declares Lord Yahweh, “that they shall bear the punishment for their iniquity." 
Ezekiel44:13 And they shall not approach Me to minister as a priest to Me, nor approach any of My holy things, to the things that are most holy; but they will bear their dishonor and their abominations which they have done." 
Ezekiel44:14 Yet I will appoint them as keepers of the responsibility for the house, of all its service and of all that shall be done in it." 
Ezekiel44:15 “But the Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept the responsibility of My sanctuary when the sons of Israel went astray from Me, shall come near to Me to minister to Me; and they shall stand before Me to bring near to Me the fat and the blood,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel44:16 “They shall enter My sanctuary; they shall come near to My table to minister to Me and keep the responsibility given by Me. 
Ezekiel44:17 And it will be that when they enter at the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments; and wool shall not be on them while they are ministering in the gates of the inner court and in the house." 
Ezekiel44:18 Linen headdresses shall be on their heads, and linen undergarments shall be on their loins; they shall not gird themselves with anything which makes them sweat." 
Ezekiel44:19 And when they go out into the outer court, into the outer court to the people, they shall put off their garments in which they have been ministering and lay them in the holy chambers; then they shall put on other garments so that they will not transmit holiness to the people with their garments." 
Ezekiel44:20 Also they shall not shave their heads, yet they shall not let their locks grow long; they shall only trim the hair of their heads." 
Ezekiel44:21 Nor shall any of the priests drink wine when they enter the inner court. 
Ezekiel44:22 And they shall not take a widow or a divorced woman as a wife but shall take virgins from the seed of the house of Israel or a widow who is the widow of a priest. 
Ezekiel44:23 Moreover, they shall instruct My people about the difference between the holy and the profane, and make them know the difference between the unclean and the clean." 
Ezekiel44:24 And in a dispute, they shall take their stand to judge; they shall judge it according to My judgments. They shall also keep My laws and My statutes in all My appointed times and keep My sabbaths holy." 
Ezekiel44:25 But they shall not go to a dead person to make themselves unclean; however, for father, for mother, for son, for daughter, for brother, or for a sister who has not had a husband, they may make themselves unclean." 
Ezekiel44:26 And after he is cleansed, seven days shall be counted for him." 
Ezekiel44:27 And on the day that he goes into the sanctuary, into the inner court to minister in the sanctuary, he shall bring near his sin offering,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel44:28 “And it shall be with regard to an inheritance for them, that I am their inheritance; and you shall give them no possession in Israel—I am their possession." 
Ezekiel44:29 They shall eat the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering; and every devoted thing in Israel shall be theirs." 
Ezekiel44:30 And the first of all the first fruits of every kind and every contribution of every kind, from all your contributions, shall be for the priests; you shall also give to the priest the first of your dough to cause a blessing to rest on your house." 
Ezekiel44:31 The priests shall not eat any bird or beast that has died of itself or has been torn to pieces. 
Ezekiel45:1 “And when you divide by lot the land for inheritance, you shall offer a contribution to Yahweh, a holy portion of the land; the length shall be the length of 25,000 cubits, and the width shall be 20,000. It shall be holy within all its boundary round about." 
Ezekiel45:2 Out of this there shall be for the holy place a square round about five hundred by five hundred cubits, and fifty cubits for its open space round about." 
Ezekiel45:3 And from this area you shall measure a length of 25,000 cubits and a width of 10,000 cubits; and in it shall be the sanctuary, the Holy of Holies." 
Ezekiel45:4 It shall be the holy portion of the land; it shall be for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come near to minister to Yahweh, and it shall be a place for their houses and a holy place for the sanctuary." 
Ezekiel45:5 And an area 25,000 cubits in length and 10,000 in width shall be for the Levites, the ministers of the house, and for their possession as cities to dwell in." 
Ezekiel45:6 “And you shall give the city possession of an area 5,000 cubits wide and 25,000 cubits long, alongside the contribution of the holy portion; it shall be for the whole house of Israel." 
Ezekiel45:7 “Now the prince shall have land on either side of the holy contribution and the city’s possession of land, adjacent to the holy contribution and the city’s possession of land, on the west side toward the west and on the east side toward the east, and in length comparable to one of the portions, from the west border to the east border." 
Ezekiel45:8 This shall be his land for a possession in Israel; so My princes shall no longer mistreat My people, but they shall give the rest of the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.”" 
Ezekiel45:9 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “Enough, you princes of Israel; put away violence and devastation, and do justice and righteousness. Stop your eviction of My people,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel45:10 “You shall have just balances, a just ephah, and a just bath." 
Ezekiel45:11 The ephah and the bath shall be the same quantity so that the bath will contain a tenth of a homer and the ephah a tenth of a homer; their standard shall be according to the homer. 
Ezekiel45:12 And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs; twenty shekels, twenty-five shekels, and fifteen shekels shall be your maneh." 
Ezekiel45:13 “This is the contribution that you shall offer: a sixth of an ephah from a homer of wheat, a sixth of an ephah from a homer of barley," 
Ezekiel45:14 and the statute for the oil (namely, the bath of oil), a tenth of a bath from each kor (which is ten baths or a homer, for ten baths are a homer)," 
Ezekiel45:15 and one sheep from each flock of two hundred from the watering places of Israel—for a grain offering, for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings, to make atonement for them,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel45:16 “All the people of the land shall give to this contribution for the prince in Israel. 
Ezekiel45:17 And it shall be the prince’s part to provide the burnt offerings, the grain offerings, and the drink offerings, at the feasts, on the new moons, and on the sabbaths, at all the appointed times of the house of Israel; he shall provide the sin offering, the grain offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offerings, to make atonement for the house of Israel.”" 
Ezekiel45:18 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “In the first month, on the first of the month, you shall take a bull from the herd without blemish and purify the sanctuary." 
Ezekiel45:19 The priest shall take some of the blood from the sin offering and put it on the door posts of the house, on the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and on the posts of the gate of the inner court." 
Ezekiel45:20 And thus you shall do on the seventh day of the month for everyone who errs or is simpleminded; so you shall make atonement for the house. 
Ezekiel45:21 “In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten." 
Ezekiel45:22 And on that day the prince shall provide for himself and all the people of the land a bull for a sin offering. 
Ezekiel45:23 And during the seven days of the feast he shall provide as a burnt offering to Yahweh seven bulls and seven rams without blemish on every day of the seven days, and a male goat daily for a sin offering." 
Ezekiel45:24 And he shall provide as a grain offering an ephah with a bull, an ephah with a ram, and a hin of oil with an ephah." 
Ezekiel45:25 In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, at the feast, he shall provide like this, seven days for the sin offering, the burnt offering, the grain offering, and the oil.”" 
Ezekiel46:1 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “The gate of the inner court facing east shall be shut the six working days; but it shall be opened on the sabbath day and opened on the day of the new moon." 
Ezekiel46:2 Then the prince shall enter by way of the porch of the gate from outside and stand by the post of the gate. Then the priests shall provide his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate and then go out; but the gate shall not be shut until the evening." 
Ezekiel46:3 And the people of the land shall also worship at the entrance of that gate before Yahweh on the sabbaths and on the new moons. 
Ezekiel46:4 Now the burnt offering which the prince shall bring near to Yahweh on the sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish; 
Ezekiel46:5 and the grain offering shall be an ephah with the ram, and the grain offering with the lambs shall be a gift from his hand, as well as a hin of oil with an ephah." 
Ezekiel46:6 And on the day of the new moon he shall offer a bull from the herd without blemish, also six lambs and a ram, which shall be without blemish." 
Ezekiel46:7 And he shall provide a grain offering, an ephah with the bull and an ephah with the ram, and with the lambs as much as he is able, and a hin of oil with an ephah." 
Ezekiel46:8 And when the prince enters, he shall go in by way of the porch of the gate and go out by the same way." 
Ezekiel46:9 But when the people of the land come before Yahweh at the appointed times, he who enters by way of the north gate to worship shall go out by way of the south gate. And he who enters by way of the south gate shall go out by way of the north gate. No one shall return by way of the gate by which he entered but shall go straight out." 
Ezekiel46:10 So when they go in, the prince shall go in among them; and when they go out, he shall go out." 
Ezekiel46:11 “Now at the feasts and the appointed times the grain offering shall be an ephah with a bull and an ephah with a ram, and with the lambs shall be a gift from his hand, as well as a hin of oil with an ephah." 
Ezekiel46:12 And when the prince provides a freewill offering, a burnt offering, or peace offerings as a freewill offering to Yahweh, the gate facing east shall be opened for him. And he shall provide his burnt offering and his peace offerings as he does on the sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and the gate shall be shut after he goes out." 
Ezekiel46:13 “And you shall provide a lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering to Yahweh daily; morning by morning you shall provide it. 
Ezekiel46:14 Also you shall provide a grain offering with it morning by morning—a sixth of an ephah as well as a third of a hin of oil to moisten the fine flour—a grain offering to Yahweh continually by a perpetual statute. 
Ezekiel46:15 Thus they shall provide the lamb, the grain offering, and the oil, morning by morning, for a continual burnt offering.”" 
Ezekiel46:16 ‘Thus says Lord Yahweh, “If the prince gives a gift out of his inheritance to any of his sons, it shall belong to his sons; it is their possession by inheritance." 
Ezekiel46:17 But if he gives a gift from his inheritance to one of his servants, it shall be his until the year of liberty; then it shall return to the prince. His inheritance shall be only his sons’; it shall belong to them." 
Ezekiel46:18 Now the prince shall not take from the people’s inheritance, mistreating them out of their possession; he shall give his sons inheritance from his own possession so that My people will not be scattered, anyone from his possession.”’”" 
Ezekiel46:19 Then he brought me through the entrance, which was at the side of the gate, into the holy chambers for the priests, which faced north; and behold, there was a place at the extreme rear toward the west." 
Ezekiel46:20 Then he said to me, “This is the place where the priests shall boil the guilt offering and the sin offering and where they shall bake the grain offering, in order that they may not bring them out into the outer court to transmit holiness to the people.”" 
Ezekiel46:21 Then he brought me out into the outer court and had me pass through to the four corners of the court; and behold, in every corner of the court there was a small court." 
Ezekiel46:22 In the four corners of the court there were enclosed courts, forty cubits long and thirty wide; these four in the corners were the same size." 
Ezekiel46:23 Now there was a row of masonry round about in them, around the four of them, and boiling places were made under the rows round about." 
Ezekiel46:24 Then he said to me, “These are the boiling places where the ministers of the house shall boil the sacrifices of the people.”" 
Ezekiel47:1 Then he brought me back to the door of the house; and behold, water was flowing from under the threshold of the house toward the east, for the house faced east. And the water was flowing down from under, from the right side of the house, from south of the altar." 
Ezekiel47:2 He brought me out by way of the north gate and led me around by way of the outside to the outer gate by way of the gate that faces east. And behold, water was trickling from the south side." 
Ezekiel47:3 When the man went out toward the east with a line in his hand, he measured one thousand cubits, and he had me pass through the water, water reaching the ankles." 
Ezekiel47:4 Again he measured one thousand and had me pass through the water, water reaching the knees. Again he measured one thousand and had me pass through the water, water reaching the loins." 
Ezekiel47:5 Again he measured one thousand; and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the water had become high—enough water to swim in, a river that could not be passed through." 
Ezekiel47:6 And he said to me, “Son of man, have you seen this?” Then he led and returned me back to the bank of the river." 
Ezekiel47:7 When I had returned, now behold, on the bank of the river there were very many trees on the one side and on the other." 
Ezekiel47:8 Then he said to me, “These waters go out toward the eastern region and go down into the Arabah; then they go toward the sea, being made to flow out to the sea, and the waters of the sea will be healed." 
Ezekiel47:9 And it will be that every living creature, which swarms in every place where the river goes, will live. And there will be very many fish, for these waters go there and the other waters are healed; so everything will live where the river goes." 
Ezekiel47:10 And it will be that fishermen will stand beside it; from Engedi to Eneglaim there will be a place for the spreading of nets. Their fish will be according to their kinds, like the fish of the Great Sea, very many." 
Ezekiel47:11 But its marshes and swamps will not be healed; they will be left for salt. 
Ezekiel47:12 And by the river on its bank, on one side and on the other, will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither, and their fruit will not fail. They will bear every month because their water flows out from the sanctuary, and their fruit will be for food and their leaves for healing.”" 
Ezekiel47:13 Thus says Lord Yahweh, “This shall be the boundary by which you shall apportion the land for an inheritance among the twelve tribes of Israel; Joseph shall have two portions." 
Ezekiel47:14 You shall then apportion it for an inheritance, each one equally with the other; for I swore to give it to your fathers, and this land shall fall to you as an inheritance." 
Ezekiel47:15 “This shall be the boundary of the land: on the north side, from the Great Sea by the way of Hethlon, to the entrance of Zedad;" 
Ezekiel47:16 Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath; Hazer-hatticon, which is by the border of Hauran." 
Ezekiel47:17 And the boundary shall be from the sea to Hazar-enan at the border of Damascus, and on the north toward the north is the border of Hamath. This is the north side." 
Ezekiel47:18 “And the east side, from between Hauran, Damascus, Gilead, and the land of Israel, shall be the Jordan; from the north border to the eastern sea you shall measure. This is the east side." 
Ezekiel47:19 “And the south side toward the south shall extend from Tamar as far as the waters of Meribath-kadesh, to the brook of Egypt and to the Great Sea. This is the south side toward the south." 
Ezekiel47:20 “And the west side shall be the Great Sea, from the south border to a point opposite Lebo-hamath. This is the west side." 
Ezekiel47:21 “So you shall divide this land among yourselves according to the tribes of Israel. 
Ezekiel47:22 And it will be that you shall divide it by lot for an inheritance among yourselves and among the sojourners who sojourn in your midst, who bring forth sons in your midst. And they shall be to you as the native-born among the sons of Israel. They shall be allotted an inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel." 
Ezekiel47:23 And it will be that in the tribe with which the sojourner sojourns, there you shall give him his inheritance,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel48:1 “Now these are the names of the tribes: from the northern extremity, beside the way of Hethlon to Lebo-hamath, as far as Hazar-enan at the border of Damascus, toward the north beside Hamath, running from east to west, Dan, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:2 And beside the border of Dan, from the east side to the west side, Asher, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:3 And beside the border of Asher, from the east side to the west side, Naphtali, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:4 And beside the border of Naphtali, from the east side to the west side, Manasseh, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:5 And beside the border of Manasseh, from the east side to the west side, Ephraim, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:6 And beside the border of Ephraim, from the east side to the west side, Reuben, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:7 And beside the border of Reuben, from the east side to the west side, Judah, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:8 “And beside the border of Judah, from the east side to the west side, shall be the contribution which you shall contribute, 25,000 cubits in width, and in length like one of the portions, from the east side to the west side; and the sanctuary shall be in the middle of it." 
Ezekiel48:9 The contribution that you shall contribute to Yahweh shall be 25,000 cubits in length and 10,000 in width." 
Ezekiel48:10 And the holy contribution shall be for these, namely for the priests, toward the north 25,000 cubits in length, toward the west 10,000 in width, toward the east 10,000 in width, and toward the south 25,000 in length; and the sanctuary of Yahweh shall be in its midst." 
Ezekiel48:11 It shall be for the priests who are sanctified of the sons of Zadok, who have kept the responsibility given by Me, who did not go astray when the sons of Israel went astray as the Levites went astray." 
Ezekiel48:12 And it shall be a contribution to them from the contribution of the land, a Holy of Holies, by the border of the Levites." 
Ezekiel48:13 Now alongside the border of the priests, the Levites shall have 25,000 cubits in length and 10,000 in width. The whole length shall be 25,000 cubits and the width 10,000." 
Ezekiel48:14 Moreover, they shall not sell or exchange any of it, or let this choice portion of land pass over to another; for it is holy to Yahweh." 
Ezekiel48:15 “And the remainder, 5,000 cubits in width and 25,000 in length, shall be for common use for the city, for places of habitation, and for open spaces; and the city shall be in its midst." 
Ezekiel48:16 And these shall be its measurements: the north side 4,500 cubits, the south side 4,500 cubits, the east side 4,500 cubits, and the west side 4,500 cubits." 
Ezekiel48:17 And the city shall have open spaces: on the north 250 cubits, on the south 250 cubits, on the east 250 cubits, and on the west 250 cubits." 
Ezekiel48:18 And the remainder of the length alongside the holy contribution shall be 10,000 cubits toward the east and 10,000 toward the west; and it shall be alongside the holy contribution. And its produce shall be food for the workers of the city." 
Ezekiel48:19 The workers of the city, out of all the tribes of Israel, shall cultivate it." 
Ezekiel48:20 The whole contribution shall be 25,000 by 25,000 cubits; you shall contribute the holy contribution, a square, with the city’s possession of land." 
Ezekiel48:21 “And the remainder shall be for the prince, on the one side and on the other of the holy contribution and of the city’s possession of land; in front of the 25,000 cubits of the contribution toward the east border and westward in front of the 25,000 toward the west border, alongside the portions, it shall be for the prince. And the holy contribution and the sanctuary of the house shall be in the middle of it." 
Ezekiel48:22 And apart from the Levites’ possession and the city’s possession, which are in the middle of that which belongs to the prince, everything between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin shall be for the prince." 
Ezekiel48:23 “Now as for the rest of the tribes: from the east side to the west side, Benjamin, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:24 And beside the border of Benjamin, from the east side to the west side, Simeon, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:25 And beside the border of Simeon, from the east side to the west side, Issachar, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:26 And beside the border of Issachar, from the east side to the west side, Zebulun, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:27 And beside the border of Zebulun, from the east side to the west side, Gad, one portion." 
Ezekiel48:28 And beside the border of Gad, at the south side toward the south, the border shall be from Tamar to the waters of Meribath-kadesh, to the brook of Egypt, to the Great Sea." 
Ezekiel48:29 This is the land which you shall divide by lot to the tribes of Israel for an inheritance, and these are their several portions,” declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel48:30 “And these are the exits of the city: on the north side, 4,500 cubits by measurement." 
Ezekiel48:31 “And the gates of the city shall be named for the tribes of Israel, three gates toward the north: the gate of Reuben, one; the gate of Judah, one; the gate of Levi, one." 
Ezekiel48:32 And on the east side, 4,500 cubits, shall be three gates: the gate of Joseph, one; the gate of Benjamin, one; the gate of Dan, one." 
Ezekiel48:33 And on the south side, 4,500 cubits by measurement, shall be three gates: the gate of Simeon, one; the gate of Issachar, one; the gate of Zebulun, one." 
Ezekiel48:34 On the west side, 4,500 cubits, shall be three gates: the gate of Gad, one; the gate of Asher, one; the gate of Naphtali, one." 
Ezekiel48:35 The city shall be 18,000 cubits round about; and the name of the city from that day shall be, ‘Yahweh is there.’”" 
Daniel1:1 In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it." 
Daniel1:2 And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, along with some of the vessels of the house of God; and he brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his god, and he brought the vessels into the treasury of his god." 
Daniel1:3 Then the king said for Ashpenaz, the chief of his officials, to bring in some of the sons of Israel, including some of the royal seed and of the nobles," 
Daniel1:4 youths in whom was no defect, who were good in appearance, showing insight in every branch of wisdom, being thoroughly knowledgeable and discerning knowledge, and who had ability to stand in the king’s palace; and he said for him to teach them the literature and tongue of the Chaldeans." 
Daniel1:5 And the king appointed for them a daily ration from the king’s choice food and from the wine which he drank, and appointed that they should be educated three years, at the end of which they were to stand before the king." 
Daniel1:6 Now among them from the sons of Judah were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah." 
Daniel1:7 Then the commander of the officials set names for them; and for Daniel he set the name Belteshazzar, for Hananiah Shadrach, for Mishael Meshach, and for Azariah Abed-nego." 
Daniel1:8 But Daniel set in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king’s choice food or with the wine which he drank; so he sought permission from the commander of the officials that he might not defile himself. 
Daniel1:9 Now God granted Daniel lovingkindness and compassion before the commander of the officials," 
Daniel1:10 and the commander of the officials said to Daniel, “I am afraid of my lord the king, who has appointed your food and your drink; for why should he see your faces looking more haggard than the youths who are your own age? Then you would make me forfeit my head to the king.”" 
Daniel1:11 But Daniel said to the overseer whom the commander of the officials had appointed over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah," 
Daniel1:12 “Please test your servants for ten days, and let us be given some vegetables to eat and water to drink." 
Daniel1:13 Then let our appearance be observed before you and the appearance of the youths who are eating the king’s choice food; and deal with your servants according to what you see.” 
Daniel1:14 So he listened to them in this matter and tested them for ten days. 
Daniel1:15 At the end of ten days it was seen that their appearance was better and that they were fatter than all the youths who had been eating the king’s choice food. 
Daniel1:16 So the overseer continued to withhold their choice food and the wine they were to drink, and kept giving them vegetables." 
Daniel1:17 And as for these four youths, God gave them knowledge and insight in every branch of literature and wisdom; Daniel even understood all kinds of visions and dreams." 
Daniel1:18 Then at the end of the days which the king had spoken of for bringing them in, the commander of the officials brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar." 
Daniel1:19 And the king talked with them, and out of them all not one was found like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah; so they stood in service before the king." 
Daniel1:20 And as for every matter of wisdom in understanding which the king sought from them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and conjurers who were in all his kingdom." 
Daniel1:21 And Daniel continued until the first year of Cyrus the king. 
Daniel2:1 Now in the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams; and his spirit was troubled, and his sleep left him." 
Daniel2:2 Then the king said to call in the magicians, the conjurers, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans to tell the king his dreams. So they came in and stood before the king." 
Daniel2:3 Then the king said to them, “I had a dream, and my spirit is troubled to know the dream.”" 
Daniel2:4 Then the Chaldeans spoke to the king in Aramaic: “O king, live forever! Say the dream to your servants, and we will declare the interpretation.”" 
Daniel2:5 The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, “The word from me is firm: if you do not make known to me the dream and its interpretation, you will be torn limb from limb, and your houses will be made a rubbish heap." 
Daniel2:6 But if you declare the dream and its interpretation, you will receive from me gifts and a reward and great glory; therefore declare to me the dream and its interpretation.”" 
Daniel2:7 They answered a second time and said, “Let the king say the dream to his servants, and we will declare the interpretation.”" 
Daniel2:8 The king answered and said, “I know for certain that you are buying time, inasmuch as you have seen that the word from me is firm," 
Daniel2:9 that if you do not make the dream known to me, there is only one law for you. Indeed, you have agreed together to speak lying and corrupt words before me until the time is changed; therefore say the dream to me, that I may know that you can declare to me its interpretation.”" 
Daniel2:10 The Chaldeans answered the king and said, “There is not a man on earth who is able to declare the matter for the king, inasmuch as no great king or powerful ruler has ever asked about a matter like this of any magician, conjurer, or Chaldean." 
Daniel2:11 Moreover, the matter which the king asks is difficult, and there is no one else who could declare it to the king except gods, whose dwelling place is not with flesh.”" 
Daniel2:12 Because of this the king became indignant and very furious and said for them to destroy all the wise men of Babylon. 
Daniel2:13 So the law went forth that the wise men were to be killed; and they sought out Daniel and his friends to kill them. 
Daniel2:14 Then Daniel replied with discretion and discernment to Arioch, the captain of the king’s bodyguard, who had gone forth to kill the wise men of Babylon;" 
Daniel2:15 he answered and said to Arioch, a powerful official for the king, “For what reason is the law from the king so urgent?” Then Arioch made the matter known to Daniel." 
Daniel2:16 So Daniel went in and sought from the king that he would give him time, in order that he might declare the interpretation to the king." 
Daniel2:17 Then Daniel went to his house and made the matter known to his friends, to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah," 
Daniel2:18 so that they might seek compassion from the God of heaven concerning this mystery, so that Daniel and his friends would not be destroyed with the rest of the wise men of Babylon." 
Daniel2:19 Then the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a night vision. Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven; 
Daniel2:20 Daniel answered and said, “Let the name of God be blessed forever and ever, For wisdom and might belong to Him." 
Daniel2:21 And He changes the times and the seasons; He removes kings and establishes kings; He gives wisdom to wise men And knowledge to men of understanding. 
Daniel2:22 He reveals the deep and hidden things; He knows what is in the darkness, And the light dwells with Him." 
Daniel2:23 To You, O God of my fathers, I give thanks and praise, For You have given me wisdom and might; Even now You have made known to me what we sought from You, For You have made known to us the king’s matter.”" 
Daniel2:24 Therefore, Daniel went in to Arioch, whom the king had appointed to destroy the wise men of Babylon; he went and said thus to him: “Do not destroy the wise men of Babylon! Bring me before the king, and I will declare the interpretation to the king.”" 
Daniel2:25 Then Arioch hurriedly brought Daniel before the king and said thus to him: “I have found a man among the exiles from Judah who can make the interpretation known to the king!” 
Daniel2:26 The king answered and said to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, “Are you able to make known to me the dream which I have seen and its interpretation?”" 
Daniel2:27 Daniel answered before the king and said, “As for the mystery about which the king is asking, neither wise men, conjurers, magicians, nor diviners are able to declare it to the king." 
Daniel2:28 However, there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries, and He has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what will take place in the last days. This was your dream and the visions of your head while on your bed." 
Daniel2:29 As for you, O king, while on your bed your thoughts turned to what would happen in the future; and He who reveals mysteries has made known to you what will happen." 
Daniel2:30 But as for me, this mystery has not been revealed to me by any wisdom which is in me more than in any other living man, but for the purpose of making the interpretation known to the king, and that you may know the thoughts of your heart." 
Daniel2:31 “You, O king, were looking, and behold, there was a single great image; that image, which was large and of extraordinary splendor, was rising up in front of you, and its appearance was awesome." 
Daniel2:32 The head of that image was made of fine gold, its breast and its arms of silver, its belly and its thighs of bronze," 
Daniel2:33 its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay." 
Daniel2:34 You continued looking until a stone was cut out without hands, and it struck the image on its feet of iron and clay and crushed them." 
Daniel2:35 Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold were crushed all at the same time and became like chaff from the summer threshing floors; and the wind carried them away so that not a trace of them was found. But the stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth." 
Daniel2:36 “This was the dream; now we will say its interpretation before the king. 
Daniel2:37 You, O king, are the king of kings, to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, the strength, and the glory;" 
Daniel2:38 and wherever the sons of men inhabit, or the beasts of the field, or the birds of the sky, He has given them into your hand and has made you rule with power over them all. You are the head of gold." 
Daniel2:39 But after you there will arise another kingdom inferior to you, then another third kingdom of bronze, which will rule with power over all the earth." 
Daniel2:40 Then there will be a fourth kingdom as strong as iron; inasmuch as iron crushes and shatters all things, so, like iron that breaks in pieces, it will crush and break all these in pieces." 
Daniel2:41 Now in that you saw the feet and toes, partly of potter’s clay and partly of iron; it will be a divided kingdom; but it will have in it the toughness of iron, inasmuch as you saw the iron mixed with common clay." 
Daniel2:42 And as the toes of the feet were partly of iron and partly of clay, so some of the kingdom will be strong and part of it will be brittle." 
Daniel2:43 And in that you saw the iron mixed with common clay; they will combine with one another in the seed of men; but they will not cling to one another, even as iron does not combine with clay." 
Daniel2:44 And in the days of those kings the God of heaven will cause a kingdom to rise up which will never be destroyed, and that kingdom will not be left for another people; it will crush and put an end to all these kingdoms, but it will itself stand forever." 
Daniel2:45 Inasmuch as you saw that a stone was cut out of the mountain without hands and that it crushed the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold, the great God has made known to the king what will happen in the future; so the dream is certain, and its interpretation is trustworthy.”" 
Daniel2:46 Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face and did homage to Daniel and said for them to present to him an offering and fragrant incense. 
Daniel2:47 The king answered Daniel and said, “Truly your God is a God of gods and a Lord of kings and a revealer of mysteries since you have been able to reveal this mystery.”" 
Daniel2:48 Then the king promoted Daniel and gave him many great gifts, and he made him rule with power over the whole province of Babylon and chief prefect over all the wise men of Babylon." 
Daniel2:49 And Daniel sought of the king, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego over the administration of the province of Babylon, while Daniel was at the king’s court." 
Daniel3:1 Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, the height of which was sixty cubits and its width six cubits; he set it up on the plain of Dura in the province of Babylon." 
Daniel3:2 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent word to assemble the satraps, the prefects and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates and all the rulers of the provinces to come to the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up." 
Daniel3:3 Then the satraps, the prefects and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates and all the rulers of the provinces were assembled for the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they were standing before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up." 
Daniel3:4 Then the herald loudly called out: “To you it is said, O peoples, nations, and men of every tongue," 
Daniel3:5 that at the time you hear the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, bagpipe, and all kinds of music, you are to fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king has set up." 
Daniel3:6 But whoever does not fall down and worship shall immediately be cast into the midst of a furnace of blazing fire.” 
Daniel3:7 Therefore at that time, when all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, bagpipe, and all kinds of music, all the peoples, nations, and men of every tongue fell down and worshiped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up." 
Daniel3:8 For this reason at that time certain Chaldeans came near and brought charges against the Jews. 
Daniel3:9 They answered and said to Nebuchadnezzar the king: “O king, live forever!" 
Daniel3:10 You, O king, have made a decree that every man who hears the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, and bagpipe and all kinds of music, is to fall down and worship the golden image." 
Daniel3:11 But whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast into the midst of a furnace of blazing fire. 
Daniel3:12 There are certain Jews whom you have appointed over the administration of the province of Babylon, namely Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego. These men, O king, do not pay attention to you; they do not serve your gods and do not worship the golden image which you have set up.”" 
Daniel3:13 Then Nebuchadnezzar in rage and wrath said to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego; then these men were brought before the king." 
Daniel3:14 Nebuchadnezzar answered and said to them, “Is it true, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, that you are not serving my gods and do not worship the golden image that I have set up?" 
Daniel3:15 Now if you are ready, at the time you hear the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, trigon, psaltery, and bagpipe and all kinds of music, then you shall fall down and worship the image that I have made. But if you do not worship, you will immediately be cast into the midst of a furnace of blazing fire; and what god is there who can save you out of my hands?”" 
Daniel3:16 Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego answered and said to the king, “O Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to respond to you with an answer concerning this matter." 
Daniel3:17 If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to save us from the furnace of blazing fire; and He will save us out of your hand, O king." 
Daniel3:18 But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we are not going to serve your gods, and we will not worship the golden image that you have set up.”" 
Daniel3:19 Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled with wrath, and the image of his face changed toward Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego. He answered and said to heat the furnace seven times more than it was usually heated." 
Daniel3:20 And he said to certain mighty men of valor who were in his military host to tie up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego in order to cast them into the furnace of blazing fire." 
Daniel3:21 Then these men were tied up in their trousers, their coats, their caps, and their other clothes and were cast into the midst of the furnace of blazing fire." 
Daniel3:22 For this reason, because the king’s word was urgent and the furnace had been heated to an extraordinary degree, the flame of the fire killed those men who carried up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego." 
Daniel3:23 But these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, fell into the midst of the furnace of blazing fire still tied up." 
Daniel3:24 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astounded and hurriedly stood up; he answered and said to his high officials, “Was it not three men we cast tied up into the midst of the fire?” They answered and said to the king, “Certainly, O king.”" 
Daniel3:25 He answered and said, “Look! I see four men loosed and walking about in the midst of the fire without harm, and the appearance of the fourth is like a son of the gods!”" 
Daniel3:26 Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the door of the furnace of blazing fire; he answered and said, “Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, come out, you servants of the Most High God, and come here!” Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego came out of the midst of the fire." 
Daniel3:27 Then the satraps, the prefects, the governors, and the king’s high officials gathered around and saw in regard to these men that the fire had no power over the bodies of these men, nor was the hair of their head singed, nor were their trousers damaged, nor had the smell of fire even come upon them." 
Daniel3:28 Nebuchadnezzar answered and said, “Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, who has sent His angel and saved His servants who put their trust in Him, violating the king’s word, and gave up their bodies so as not to serve and not to worship any god except their own God." 
Daniel3:29 Therefore I make a decree that any people, nation, or tongue that says anything offensive against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego shall be torn limb from limb and their houses reduced to a rubbish heap, inasmuch as there is no other god who is able to deliver in this way.”" 
Daniel3:30 Then the king caused Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego to succeed in the province of Babylon." 
Daniel4:1 Nebuchadnezzar the king to all the peoples, nations, and men of every tongue that inhabit all the earth: “May your peace abound!" 
Daniel4:2 It has seemed good to me to declare the signs and wonders which the Most High God has done for me. 
Daniel4:3 How great are His signs, And how strong are His wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, And His dominion is from generation to generation." 
Daniel4:4 “I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house and flourishing in my palace." 
Daniel4:5 I saw a dream, and it made me fearful; and these fantasies as I lay on my bed and the visions in my head kept alarming me." 
Daniel4:6 So I gave a decree to bring into my presence all the wise men of Babylon, that they might make known to me the interpretation of the dream." 
Daniel4:7 Then the magicians, the conjurers, the Chaldeans, and the diviners came in, and I said the dream to them, but they could not make its interpretation known to me." 
Daniel4:8 But at last Daniel came in before me, whose name is Belteshazzar according to the name of my god, and in whom is a spirit of the holy gods; and I said the dream to him:" 
Daniel4:9 ‘O Belteshazzar, chief of the magicians, since I know that a spirit of the holy gods is in you, and no mystery is difficult for you, say to me the visions of my dream which I have seen, along with its interpretation." 
Daniel4:10 ‘Now these were the visions in my head as I lay on my bed: I was looking, and behold, there was a tree in the midst of the earth, and its height was great." 
Daniel4:11 The tree grew large and became strong, And its height reached to the sky, And it was visible to the end of the whole earth." 
Daniel4:12 Its foliage was beautiful and its fruit abundant, And in it was food for all. The beasts of the field found shade under it, And the birds of the sky inhabited its branches, And all flesh fed itself from it." 
Daniel4:13 ‘I was looking in the visions in my head as I lay on my bed, and behold, a watcher, a holy one, descended from heaven." 
Daniel4:14 He called out loudly and said thus: “Chop down the tree and cut off its branches, Strip off its foliage and scatter its fruit; Let the beasts flee from under it And the birds from its branches." 
Daniel4:15 Yet leave the stump with its roots in the earth, But with a band of iron and bronze around it In the new grass of the field; And let him be drenched with the dew of heaven, And let him share with the beasts in the grass of the earth." 
Daniel4:16 Let his heart be changed from that of a man, And let the heart of a beast be given to him, And let seven periods of time pass over him." 
Daniel4:17 This edict is by the resolution of the watchers, And the decision is a command of the holy ones, In order that the living may know That the Most High is the powerful ruler over the kingdom of mankind And gives it to whom He wishes And sets up over it the lowliest of men.”" 
Daniel4:18 This is the dream which I, King Nebuchadnezzar, have seen. Now you, Belteshazzar, say to me its interpretation, inasmuch as none of the wise men of my kingdom is able to make known to me the interpretation; but you are able, for a spirit of the holy gods is in you.’" 
Daniel4:19 “Then Daniel, whose name is Belteshazzar, was appalled for a while as his thoughts were alarming him. The king answered and said, ‘Belteshazzar, do not let the dream or its interpretation alarm you.’ Belteshazzar answered and said, ‘My lord, if only the dream applied to those who hate you and its interpretation to your adversaries!" 
Daniel4:20 The tree that you saw, which became large and grew strong, whose height reached to the sky and was visible to all the earth," 
Daniel4:21 and whose foliage was beautiful and its fruit abundant, and in which was food for all, under which the beasts of the field inhabited, and in whose branches the birds of the sky dwelt—" 
Daniel4:22 it is you, O king; for you have become great and grown strong, and your greatness has become even greater and reached to the sky and your dominion to the end of the earth." 
Daniel4:23 But in that the king saw a watcher, a holy one, descending from heaven and saying, “Chop down the tree and destroy it; yet leave the stump with its roots in the earth, but with a band of iron and bronze around it in the new grass of the field, and let him be drenched with the dew of heaven, and let him share with the beasts of the field until seven periods of time pass over him,”" 
Daniel4:24 this is the interpretation, O king, and this is the resolution of the Most High, which has reached my lord the king:" 
Daniel4:25 that you be driven away from mankind and your place of habitation be with the beasts of the field, and you be given grass to eat like cattle and be drenched with the dew of heaven; and seven periods of time will pass over you, until you know that the Most High is the powerful ruler over the kingdom of mankind and gives it to whomever He wishes." 
Daniel4:26 And in that they said to leave the stump with the roots of the tree, your kingdom will endure for you after you know that it is Heaven that rules with power." 
Daniel4:27 Therefore, O king, may my advice seem good to you: break away now from your sins by doing righteousness and from your iniquities by showing mercy to the poor, in case there may be a prolonging of your prosperity.’" 
Daniel4:28 “All this reached Nebuchadnezzar the king. 
Daniel4:29 At the end of twelve months he was walking on the roof of the royal palace of Babylon. 
Daniel4:30 The king answered and said, ‘Is this not Babylon the great, which I myself have built as a royal house by the strength of my power and for the glory of my majesty?’" 
Daniel4:31 While the word was in the king’s mouth, a voice came from heaven, saying, ‘King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is said: the kingdom has been removed from you," 
Daniel4:32 and you will be driven away from mankind, and your place of habitation will be with the beasts of the field. You will be given grass to eat like cattle, and seven periods of time will pass over you until you know that the Most High is the powerful ruler over the kingdom of mankind and gives it to whomever He wishes.’" 
Daniel4:33 Immediately the word concerning Nebuchadnezzar was accomplished; and he was driven away from mankind and began eating grass like cattle, and his body was drenched with the dew of heaven until his hair had grown like eagles’ feathers and his nails like birds’ claws." 
Daniel4:34 “But at the end of those days, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes toward heaven, and my knowledge returned to me, and I blessed the Most High and praised and honored Him who lives forever; For His dominion is an everlasting dominion, And His kingdom endures from generation to generation." 
Daniel4:35 And all the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing, But He does according to His will in the host of heaven And among the inhabitants of earth; And no one can strike against His hand Or say to Him, ‘What have You done?’" 
Daniel4:36 At that time my knowledge returned to me. And my majesty and splendor were returned to me for the glory of my kingdom, and my high officials and my nobles began seeking me out; so I was reestablished in my kingdom, and extraordinary greatness was added to me." 
Daniel4:37 Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise, exalt, and honor the King of heaven, for all His works are true and His ways just, and He is able to humble those who walk in pride.”" 
Daniel5:1 Belshazzar the king held a great feast for one thousand of his nobles, and he was drinking wine in the presence of the thousand." 
Daniel5:2 When Belshazzar tasted the wine, he said to bring the gold and silver vessels which Nebuchadnezzar his father had taken out of the temple which was in Jerusalem, so that the king and his nobles, his wives and his concubines might drink from them." 
Daniel5:3 Then they brought the gold vessels that had been taken out of the temple, the house of God which was in Jerusalem; and the king and his nobles, his wives and his concubines drank from them." 
Daniel5:4 They drank the wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, of bronze, iron, wood and stone." 
Daniel5:5 Suddenly the fingers of a man’s hand came out and began writing opposite the lampstand on the plaster of the wall of the king’s palace, and the king saw the back of the hand that did the writing." 
Daniel5:6 Then the splendor of the king’s face changed, and his thoughts alarmed him, and his hip joints went slack, and his knees were knocking against each other." 
Daniel5:7 The king called out loudly to bring in the conjurers, the Chaldeans, and the diviners. The king answered and said to the wise men of Babylon, “Any man who can read this writing and declare its interpretation to me shall be clothed with purple and have a necklace of gold around his neck and rule with power as third ruler in the kingdom.”" 
Daniel5:8 Then all the king’s wise men came in, but they could not read the writing or make known its interpretation to the king." 
Daniel5:9 Then King Belshazzar was greatly alarmed, and the splendor of his face changed further, and his nobles were perplexed." 
Daniel5:10 The queen entered the banquet hall because of the words of the king and his nobles; the queen answered and said, “O king, live forever! Do not let your thoughts alarm you or the splendor of your face be changed." 
Daniel5:11 There is a man in your kingdom in whom is a spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of your father, illumination, insight, and wisdom like the wisdom of the gods were found in him. And King Nebuchadnezzar, your father, your father the king, set him as chief of the magicians, conjurers, Chaldeans, and diviners." 
Daniel5:12 This was because an extraordinary spirit, knowledge and insight, interpretation of dreams, explanation of enigmas, and solving of difficult problems were found in this Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar. Let Daniel now be summoned, and he will declare the interpretation.”" 
Daniel5:13 Then Daniel was brought in before the king. The king answered and said to Daniel, “Are you that Daniel who is one of the exiles from Judah, whom my father the king brought from Judah?" 
Daniel5:14 Now I have heard about you that a spirit of the gods is in you, and that illumination, insight, and extraordinary wisdom have been found in you." 
Daniel5:15 Just now the wise men and the conjurers were brought in before me that they might read this writing and make its interpretation known to me, but they could not declare the interpretation of the message." 
Daniel5:16 But I personally have heard about you, that you are able to give interpretations and solve difficult problems. Now if you are able to read the writing and make its interpretation known to me, you will be clothed with purple and wear a necklace of gold around your neck, and you will rule with power as the third ruler in the kingdom.”" 
Daniel5:17 Then Daniel answered and said before the king, “Let your gifts remain with you or give your rewards to someone else; however, I will read the writing to the king and make the interpretation known to him." 
Daniel5:18 O king, the Most High God granted the kingdom, grandeur, glory, and majesty to Nebuchadnezzar your father." 
Daniel5:19 And because of the grandeur which He bestowed on him, all the peoples, nations, and men of every tongue feared and were in dread before him; whomever he wished he killed, and whomever he wished he kept alive, and whomever he wished he raised up, and whomever he wished he made low." 
Daniel5:20 But when his heart was raised up and his spirit became so strong that he behaved arrogantly, he was deposed from his royal throne, and his glory was taken away from him." 
Daniel5:21 He was also driven away from the sons of men, and his heart was made like that of beasts, and his place of habitation was with the wild donkeys. He was given grass to eat like cattle, and his body was drenched with the dew of the sky until he knew that the Most High God is the powerful ruler over the kingdom of mankind and that He sets up over it whomever He wishes." 
Daniel5:22 Yet you, his son, Belshazzar, have not made your heart lowly, even though you knew all this," 
Daniel5:23 but you have raised yourself up against the Lord of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of His house before you, and you and your nobles, your wives and your concubines have been drinking wine from them; and you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, wood and stone, which do not see, hear, or know. But the God in whose hand are your life-breath and all your ways, you have not honored." 
Daniel5:24 Then the hand was sent from Him, and this writing was inscribed." 
Daniel5:25 “Now this is the writing that was inscribed: ‘MENĒ, MENĒ, TEKĒL, UPHARSIN.’" 
Daniel5:26 This is the interpretation of the message: ‘MENĒ’—God has numbered your kingdom and put an end to it. 
Daniel5:27 ‘TEKĒL’—you have been weighed on the scales and found lacking. 
Daniel5:28 ‘PERĒS’—your kingdom has been divided and given over to the Medes and Persians.” 
Daniel5:29 Then Belshazzar said the word, and they clothed Daniel with purple and put a necklace of gold around his neck and issued a proclamation concerning him that he now would be the third powerful ruler in the kingdom." 
Daniel5:30 That same night Belshazzar the Chaldean king was killed. 
Daniel5:31 So Darius the Mede received the kingdom at about the age of sixty-two. 
Daniel6:1 It seemed good to Darius that he set 120 satraps over the kingdom, that they would be in charge of the whole kingdom," 
Daniel6:2 and over them three commissioners (of whom Daniel was one), that these satraps might be accountable to them, and that the king might not suffer loss." 
Daniel6:3 Then this Daniel began distinguishing himself among the commissioners and satraps because an extraordinary spirit was in him, and the king planned to set him over the entire kingdom." 
Daniel6:4 Then the commissioners and satraps began seeking to find a ground of accusation against Daniel in regard to matters of the kingdom; but they were not able to find any ground of accusation or evidence of corruption, inasmuch as he was faithful, and no negligence or corruption was to be found in him." 
Daniel6:5 Then these men said, “We will not find any ground of accusation against this Daniel unless we find it against him with regard to the law of his God.”" 
Daniel6:6 Then these commissioners and satraps came by agreement to the king and said thus to him: “King Darius, live forever!" 
Daniel6:7 All the commissioners of the kingdom, the prefects and the satraps, the high officials and the governors have counseled together that the king should establish a statute and enforce an injunction that anyone who seeks to make a petition to any god or man besides you, O king, for thirty days, shall be cast into the lions’ den." 
Daniel6:8 Now, O king, establish the injunction and sign the written document so that it may not be changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which may not be revoked.”" 
Daniel6:9 Therefore King Darius signed the written document, that is, the injunction." 
Daniel6:10 Now when Daniel knew that the written document was signed, he entered his house (now in his roof chamber he had windows open toward Jerusalem); and he continued kneeling on his knees three times a day, praying and giving thanks before his God, as he had been doing previously." 
Daniel6:11 Then these men came by agreement and found Daniel seeking to make a petition and making supplication before his God. 
Daniel6:12 Then they came near and said before the king concerning the king’s injunction, “Did you not sign an injunction that any man who seeks to make a petition to any god or man besides you, O king, for thirty days, is to be cast into the lions’ den?” The king answered and said, “The word is certain, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which may not be revoked.”" 
Daniel6:13 Then they answered and said before the king, “Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah, pays no attention to you, O king, or to the injunction which you signed, but keeps seeking to make his petition three times a day.”" 
Daniel6:14 Then, as soon as the king heard this word, he was greatly distressed within himself and set his mind on saving Daniel; and even until sunset he kept exerting himself to deliver him." 
Daniel6:15 Then these men came by agreement to the king and said to the king, “Know, O king, that it is a law of the Medes and Persians that no injunction or statute which the king establishes may be changed.”" 
Daniel6:16 Then the king said the word, and Daniel was brought in and cast into the lions’ den. The king answered and said to Daniel, “Your God whom you constantly serve will Himself save you.”" 
Daniel6:17 And a stone was brought and placed over the mouth of the den; and the king sealed it with his own signet ring and with the signet rings of his nobles so that nothing would be changed in regard to Daniel. 
Daniel6:18 Then the king went off to his palace and spent the night fasting, and no entertainment was brought before him; and his sleep fled from him." 
Daniel6:19 Then the king arose at dawn, at the break of day, and hurriedly went to the lions’ den." 
Daniel6:20 When he had come near the den to Daniel, he cried out with a troubled voice. The king answered and said to Daniel, “Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God, whom you constantly serve, been able to save you from the lions?”" 
Daniel6:21 Then Daniel spoke to the king, “O king, live forever!" 
Daniel6:22 My God sent His angel and shut the lions’ mouths, and they have not harmed me, inasmuch as I was found innocent before Him; and also toward you, O king, I have done no harm.”" 
Daniel6:23 Then the king was greatly pleased and said for Daniel to be taken up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no harm whatsoever was found on him because he had believed in his God." 
Daniel6:24 The king then said the word, and they brought those men who had brought charges against Daniel, and they cast them, their children, and their wives into the lions’ den; and they had not reached the bottom of the den before the lions overpowered them and crushed all their bones." 
Daniel6:25 Then Darius the king wrote to all the peoples, nations, and men of every tongue who were inhabiting all the land: “May your peace abound!" 
Daniel6:26 I make a decree that in all the dominion of my kingdom, men are to fear and be in dread before the God of Daniel; For He is the living God and enduring forever, And His kingdom is one which will not be destroyed, And His dominion will be unto the end." 
Daniel6:27 He saves and delivers and does signs and wonders In heaven and on earth, Who has also saved Daniel from the power of the lions.”" 
Daniel6:28 So this Daniel enjoyed success in the kingdom of Darius and in the kingdom of Cyrus the Persian. 
Daniel7:1 In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon Daniel saw a dream and visions in his head as he lay on his bed; then he wrote the dream down and said the following summary of the matter. 
Daniel7:2 Daniel answered and said, “I was looking in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the great sea." 
Daniel7:3 And four great beasts were coming up from the sea, different from one another." 
Daniel7:4 The first was like a lion and had the wings of an eagle. I kept looking until its wings were plucked, and it was lifted up from the ground and made to stand on two feet like a man; and a heart of a man was given to it." 
Daniel7:5 And behold, another beast, a second one in the likeness of a bear. And it was raised up on one side, and three ribs were in its mouth between its teeth; and thus they said to it, ‘Arise, devour much meat!’" 
Daniel7:6 After this I kept looking, and behold, another one, like a leopard, which had on its back four wings of a bird; the beast also had four heads, and dominion was given to it." 
Daniel7:7 After this I kept looking in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, fearsome and terrifying and extraordinarily strong; and it had large iron teeth. It devoured and crushed and trampled down the remainder with its feet; and it was different from all the beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns." 
Daniel7:8 While I was contemplating the horns, behold, another horn, a little one, came up among them, and three of the first horns were pulled out by the roots before it; and behold, this horn possessed eyes like the eyes of a man and a mouth speaking great boasts." 
Daniel7:9 “I kept looking Until thrones were set up, And the Ancient of Days was seated; His clothing was like white snow And the hair of His head like pure wool. His throne was ablaze with fire, Its wheels were a burning fire." 
Daniel7:10 A river of fire was flowing And coming out from before Him; Thousands upon thousands were attending Him, And myriads upon myriads were standing before Him; The court sat, And the books were opened." 
Daniel7:11 Then I kept looking because of the sound of the great boastful words which the horn was speaking; I kept looking until the beast was killed, and its body was destroyed and given to the burning fire." 
Daniel7:12 As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but an extension of life was given to them for an appointed season of time." 
Daniel7:13 “I kept looking in the night visions, And behold, with the clouds of heaven One like a Son of Man was coming, And He came up to the Ancient of Days And came near before Him." 
Daniel7:14 And to Him was given dominion, Glory, and a kingdom, That all the peoples, nations, and men of every tongue Might serve Him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion Which will not be taken away; And His kingdom is one Which will not be destroyed." 
Daniel7:15 “As for me, Daniel, my spirit was distressed within me, and the visions of my head kept alarming me." 
Daniel7:16 I came near to one of those who were standing by and began seeking out from him the exact meaning of all this. So he said it to me and made known to me the interpretation of these things: 
Daniel7:17 ‘These great beasts, which are four in number, are four kings who will arise from the earth." 
Daniel7:18 But the saints of the Highest One will receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, for all ages to come.’" 
Daniel7:19 “Then I desired to know the exact meaning of the fourth beast, which was different from all the others, extraordinarily fearsome, with its teeth of iron and its claws of bronze, and which devoured, crushed, and trampled down the remainder with its feet," 
Daniel7:20 and the meaning of the ten horns that were on its head and the other horn which came up and before which three of them fell, namely, that horn which had eyes and a mouth speaking great boasts and which was larger in appearance than its associates." 
Daniel7:21 I kept looking, and that horn was waging war with the saints and overcoming them" 
Daniel7:22 until the Ancient of Days came and judgment was given in favor of the saints of the Highest One, and the season arrived when the saints took possession of the kingdom." 
Daniel7:23 “Thus he said: ‘The fourth beast will be a fourth kingdom on the earth, which will be different from all the other kingdoms and will devour the whole earth and tread it down and crush it." 
Daniel7:24 As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings will arise; and another will arise after them, and he will be different from the previous ones and will make low three kings." 
Daniel7:25 He will speak words against the Most High and wear down the saints of the Highest One, and he will intend to make changes in seasons and in law; and they will be given into his hand for a time, times, and half a time." 
Daniel7:26 But the court will sit for judgment, and his dominion will be taken away, annihilated and destroyed forever." 
Daniel7:27 Then the reign, the dominion, and the greatness of all the kingdoms under the whole heaven will be given to the people of the saints of the Highest One; His kingdom will be an everlasting kingdom, and all the dominions will serve and obey Him.’" 
Daniel7:28 “At this point the matter of this revelation ended. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts were greatly alarming me, and the splendor of my face changed, but I kept the matter in my heart.”" 
Daniel8:1 In the third year of the reign of Belshazzar the king, a vision appeared to me, Daniel, after the one which appeared to me previously." 
Daniel8:2 And I looked in the vision. And it happened that while I was looking, I was in the citadel of Susa, which is in the province of Elam; and I looked in the vision, and I myself was beside the Ulai Canal." 
Daniel8:3 Then I lifted my eyes and looked, and behold, a ram which had two horns was standing in front of the canal. Now the two horns were long, but one was longer than the other, with the longer one coming up last." 
Daniel8:4 I saw the ram butting westward, northward, and southward, and no other beasts could stand before it, nor was there anyone to deliver from its power, but it did as it pleased and magnified itself." 
Daniel8:5 And while I was considering, behold, a male goat was coming from the west over the surface of the whole earth without touching the ground; and the goat had a conspicuous horn between its eyes." 
Daniel8:6 Then it came up to the ram that had the two horns, which I had seen standing in front of the canal, and ran at it in his strong wrath." 
Daniel8:7 And I saw it reach the side of the ram, and it was enraged at it; and it struck the ram and broke its two horns in pieces, and the ram had no strength to stand in opposition to it. So it threw it down to the ground and trampled on it, and there was none to deliver the ram from its power." 
Daniel8:8 Then the male goat magnified itself exceedingly. But as soon as it was mighty, the large horn was broken; and in its place there came up four conspicuous horns toward the four winds of heaven." 
Daniel8:9 And out of one of them came forth a rather small horn. And it grew exceedingly great toward the south, toward the east, and toward the Beautiful Land." 
Daniel8:10 Then it grew up to the host of heaven and caused some of the host and some of the stars to fall to the earth, and it trampled them down." 
Daniel8:11 And it even magnified itself to be equal with the Commander of the host; and it removed the regular sacrifice from Him, and the place of His sanctuary was thrown down." 
Daniel8:12 And on account of transgression the host will be given over to the horn along with the regular sacrifice; and it will throw truth down to the ground and do its will and succeed. 
Daniel8:13 Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another holy one said to that particular one who was speaking, “How long will the vision about the regular sacrifice apply, while the transgression causes desolation, so as to allow both the holy place and the host to be trampled?”" 
Daniel8:14 He said to me, “For 2,300 evenings and mornings; then the holy place will be made righteous.”" 
Daniel8:15 Now it happened when I, Daniel, had seen the vision, that I sought to understand it; and behold, standing before me was one who had the appearance of a man." 
Daniel8:16 And I heard the voice of a man between the banks of Ulai, and he called out and said, “Gabriel, give this man an understanding of what has appeared.”" 
Daniel8:17 So he came near to where I was standing, and when he came I was terrified and fell on my face; but he said to me, “Son of man, understand that the vision pertains to the time of the end.”" 
Daniel8:18 Now while he was talking with me, I sank into a deep sleep with my face to the ground; but he touched me and made me stand upright." 
Daniel8:19 Then he said, “Behold, I am going to let you know what will happen at the final period of the indignation, for it pertains to the appointed time of the end." 
Daniel8:20 The ram which you saw with the two horns is the kings of Media and Persia. 
Daniel8:21 Now the shaggy goat is the king of Greece, and the large horn that is between his eyes is the first king." 
Daniel8:22 And the broken horn and the four horns that stood in its place are four kingdoms which will take their stand from his nation, although not with his power." 
Daniel8:23 In the latter period of their reign, When the transgressors have run their course, A king will stand, Insolent and skilled in intrigue." 
Daniel8:24 His power will be mighty, but not by his own power, And he will destroy to an astonishing degree And succeed and do his will; He will destroy mighty men and the holy people." 
Daniel8:25 And through his insight He will cause deceit to succeed by his hand; And he will magnify himself in his heart, And he will destroy many while they are at ease. He will even stand against the Prince of princes, But he will be broken without hands." 
Daniel8:26 And what had appeared about the evenings and mornings Which has been told is true; But as for you, conceal the vision, For it pertains to many days in the future.”" 
Daniel8:27 Then I, Daniel, was exhausted and sick for days. Then I rose up again and did the king’s work; but I was appalled at what had appeared, and there was none to make me understand it." 
Daniel9:1 In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, from the seed of the Medes, who was made king over the kingdom of the Chaldeans—" 
Daniel9:2 in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, discerned in the books the number of the years concerning which the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah the prophet for the fulfillment of the laying waste of Jerusalem, namely, seventy years." 
Daniel9:2 in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, discerned in the books the number of the years concerning which the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah the prophet for the fulfillment of the laying waste of Jerusalem, namely, seventy years." 
Daniel9:3 So I gave my face to the Lord God to seek Him by prayer and supplications, with fasting, sackcloth, and ashes." 
Daniel9:4 And I prayed to Yahweh my God and confessed and said, “Alas, O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps His covenant and lovingkindness for those who love Him and keep His commandments," 
Daniel9:5 we have sinned and committed iniquity and acted wickedly and rebelled, even turning aside from Your commandments and judgments." 
Daniel9:6 Moreover, we have not listened to Your slaves the prophets, who spoke in Your name to our kings, our princes, our fathers, and all the people of the land." 
Daniel9:7 “To You, O Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us open shame, as it is this day—to the men of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and all Israel, those who are nearby and those who are far away in all the countries to which You have banished them, because of their unfaithful deeds which they have committed against You." 
Daniel9:8 O Yahweh, to us belongs open shame, to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, because we have sinned against You." 
Daniel9:9 To the Lord our God belong compassion and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against Him;" 
Daniel9:10 nor have we listened to the voice of Yahweh our God, to walk in His laws which He put before us through His slaves the prophets." 
Daniel9:11 Indeed all Israel has trespassed against Your law, even turning aside, not listening to Your voice; so the curse has been poured out on us, along with the oath which is written in the law of Moses the servant of God, for we have sinned against Him." 
Daniel9:12 Thus He has established His words which He had spoken against us and against our judges who judged us, to bring on us great calamity; for under the whole heaven there has not been done anything like what was done to Jerusalem." 
Daniel9:13 As it is written in the law of Moses, all this calamity has come on us; yet we have not entreated the favor of Yahweh our God by turning from our iniquity and acting wisely in Your truth." 
Daniel9:14 Therefore Yahweh has watched over the calamity and brought it on us; for Yahweh our God is righteous with respect to all His deeds which He has done, but we have not listened to His voice." 
Daniel9:15 “So now, O Lord our God, who have brought Your people out of the land of Egypt with a strong hand and have made a name for Yourself, as it is this day—we have sinned; we have acted wickedly." 
Daniel9:16 O Lord, in accordance with all Your righteousness, let now Your anger and Your wrath turn away from Your city Jerusalem, Your holy mountain; for because of our sins and the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and Your people have become a reproach to all those around us." 
Daniel9:17 So now, our God, listen to the prayer of Your slave and to his supplications, and for Your sake, O Lord, let Your face shine on Your desolate sanctuary." 
Daniel9:18 O my God, incline Your ear and listen! Open Your eyes and see our desolations and the city which is called by Your name; for we are not presenting our supplications before You on account of any righteousness of our own, but on account of Your abundant compassion." 
Daniel9:19 O Lord, listen! O Lord, forgive! O Lord, give heed and take action! For Your own sake, O my God, do not delay, because Your city and Your people are called by Your name.”" 
Daniel9:20 Now while I was speaking and praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before Yahweh my God in behalf of the holy mountain of my God," 
Daniel9:21 and while I was still speaking in prayer, then the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision previously, touched me in my extreme weariness about the time of the evening offering." 
Daniel9:22 Then he made me understand and spoke with me and said, “O Daniel, I have now come forth to give you insight with understanding." 
Daniel9:23 At the beginning of your supplications the word was issued, so I have come to tell you, for you are highly esteemed; so understand the message and gain understanding in what has appeared." 
Daniel9:24 “Seventy weeks have been determined for your people and for your holy city, to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the Holy of Holies." 
Daniel9:25 So you are to know and have insight that from the going out of a word to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince, there will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks; it will be restored and rebuilt, with plaza and moat, even in times of distress." 
Daniel9:26 Then after the sixty-two weeks the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing, and the people of the prince who is to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. And its end will come with a flood; even to the end there will be war; desolations are decreed." 
Daniel9:27 And he will make a firm covenant with the many for one week, but in the middle of the week he will make sacrifice and grain offering cease; and on the wing of abominations will come one who makes desolate, even until a complete destruction, one that is decreed, is poured out on the one who makes desolate.”" 
Daniel10:1 In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia, a word was revealed to Daniel, who was named Belteshazzar; and the word was true and one of great conflict, but he understood the word and had an understanding of what had appeared." 
Daniel10:2 In those days, I, Daniel, had been mourning for three entire weeks." 
Daniel10:3 I did not eat any tasty food, nor did meat or wine enter my mouth, nor did I use any ointment at all until the entire three weeks were fulfilled." 
Daniel10:4 And on the twenty-fourth day of the first month, while I was by the bank of the great river, that is, the Tigris," 
Daniel10:5 I lifted my eyes and looked, and behold, there was a certain man dressed in linen, whose loins were girded with a belt of pure fine gold of Uphaz." 
Daniel10:6 His body also was like beryl, his face had the appearance of lightning, his eyes were like flaming torches, his arms and feet like the gleam of burnished bronze, and the sound of his words like the sound of a multitude." 
Daniel10:7 Now I, Daniel, alone saw the vision that appeared, but the men who were with me did not see the vision that appeared; nevertheless, a great terror fell on them, and they ran away to hide themselves." 
Daniel10:8 So I alone remained and saw this great vision that appeared; yet no might remained in me, for my outward splendor turned to a deathly pallor, and I retained no might." 
Daniel10:9 But I heard the sound of his words; and as soon as I heard the sound of his words, I fell into a deep sleep on my face, with my face to the ground." 
Daniel10:10 Then behold, a hand touched me and set me shaking on my hands and knees." 
Daniel10:11 And he said to me, “O Daniel, man of high esteem, understand the words that I am about to speak to you and stand upright, for I have now been sent to you.” And when he had spoken this word to me, I stood up trembling." 
Daniel10:12 Then he said to me, “Do not be afraid, Daniel, for from the first day that you gave your heart to understand this and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard, and I have come in response to your words." 
Daniel10:13 But the prince of the kingdom of Persia was standing against me for twenty-one days; then behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me. Now I had been left there with the kings of Persia." 
Daniel10:14 Now I have come to give you an understanding of what will happen to your people in the last days, for the vision pertains to the days yet future.”" 
Daniel10:15 Now when he had spoken to me according to these words, I turned my face toward the ground and became speechless." 
Daniel10:16 And behold, one in the likeness of the sons of men was touching my lips; then I opened my mouth and spoke and said to him who was standing before me, “O my lord, as a result of the vision that appeared, pains have come upon me, and I have retained no might." 
Daniel10:17 Now how can such a servant of my lord talk with such as my lord? As for me, right now no might stands within me, nor does any breath remain within me.”" 
Daniel10:18 Then this one with the appearance of a man touched me again and strengthened me. 
Daniel10:19 And he said, “O man of high esteem, do not be afraid. Peace be with you; gather strength and be strong!” Now as soon as he spoke to me, I received strength and said, “May my lord speak, for you have strengthened me.”" 
Daniel10:20 Then he said, “Do you know why I came to you? But I shall now return to fight against the prince of Persia; so I am going forth, and behold, the prince of Greece is about to come." 
Daniel10:21 However, I will tell you what is inscribed in the writing of truth. Now there is no one who exerts strength with me against these forces except Michael your prince." 
Daniel11:1 “Now I, in the first year of Darius the Mede, I stood to strengthen and to be a fortress for him." 
Daniel11:2 So now I will tell you the truth. Behold, three more kings are going to stand in Persia. Then a fourth will gain far more riches than all of them; as soon as he becomes strong through his riches, he will arouse the whole empire against the kingdom of Greece." 
Daniel11:3 And a mighty king will stand, and he will dominate with great domination and do as he pleases." 
Daniel11:4 But as soon as he stands, his kingdom will be broken up and parceled out toward the four winds of heaven, but not to his own descendants, nor according to his domination with which he dominated, for his kingdom will be uprooted and given to others besides them." 
Daniel11:5 “Then the king of the South will grow strong, along with one of his princes who will grow strong over him and obtain dominion; indeed, his domain will be a great dominion." 
Daniel11:6 And after some years they will form an alliance, and the daughter of the king of the South will come to the king of the North to carry out an equitable arrangement. But she will not retain her position of power, nor will he continue to stand with his power, but she will be given up, along with those who brought her in and the one who fathered her as well as he who strengthened her in those times." 
Daniel11:7 But one of the descendants of her line will stand in his place, and he will come against their military force and enter the fortress of the king of the North, and he will deal with them and display strength." 
Daniel11:8 And also their gods with their metal images and their desirable vessels of silver and gold he will bring into captivity to Egypt, and he on his part will stand back from attacking the king of the North for some years." 
Daniel11:9 Then the latter will enter the kingdom of the king of the South, but will return to his own land." 
Daniel11:10 “And his sons will wage war. So they will gather a multitude of great forces; and one of them will keep on coming and overflow and pass through, that he may again wage war up to his very fortress." 
Daniel11:11 And the king of the South will be enraged and go forth and fight with the king of the North. Then the latter will cause a great multitude to stand, but that multitude will be given into the hand of the former." 
Daniel11:12 Then the multitude will be carried away, his heart will be lifted up, and he will cause tens of thousands to fall; yet he will not prevail." 
Daniel11:13 And the king of the North will again cause a much greater multitude than the former to stand, and at the end of the times of those years, he will keep on coming with a great military force and much equipment." 
Daniel11:14 “Now in those times many will stand against the king of the South; the violent ones among your people will also lift themselves up in order to cause the vision to stand, but they will fall down." 
Daniel11:15 Then the king of the North will come, cast up a siege ramp, and capture a well-fortified city; and the might of the South will not stand, not even their choicest troops, for there will be no strength to make a stand." 
Daniel11:16 But he who comes against him will do as he pleases, and no one will be able to stand in opposition to him; he will also stand for a time in the Beautiful Land, with destruction in his hand." 
Daniel11:17 And he will set his face to come with the authority of his whole kingdom, bringing with him an equitable proposal which he will put into effect; he will also give him the daughter of women to destroy it. But she will not take a stand for him or be on his side." 
Daniel11:18 Then he will turn his face to the coastlands and capture many. But a ruler will make his reproach against him cease; moreover, he will repay him for his reproach." 
Daniel11:19 So he will turn his face toward the fortresses of his own land, but he will stumble and fall and be found no more." 
Daniel11:20 “Then in his place one will stand who will have an oppressor pass through the Jewel of his kingdom; yet within a few days he will be broken, though not in anger nor in battle." 
Daniel11:21 And in his place a despised person will stand, to whom the splendor of the kingdom has not been given, but he will come in a time of ease and take hold of the kingdom by intrigue." 
Daniel11:22 But the overflowing might will be flooded away before him and broken, and also the prince of the covenant." 
Daniel11:23 And after an alliance is made with him, he will practice deception, and he will go up and gain power with a small force of people." 
Daniel11:24 In a time of ease he will enter the richest parts of the province, and he will do what his fathers never did, nor his fathers’ fathers; he will distribute plunder, spoil, and possessions among them, and he will devise his schemes against strongholds, but only for a time." 
Daniel11:25 And he will stir up his strength and heart against the king of the South with a great military force; so the king of the South will wage war with an extremely large and mighty military force for war; but he will not stand, for schemes will be devised against him." 
Daniel11:26 And those who eat his choice food will break him, and his military force will overflow, but many will fall down slain." 
Daniel11:27 And as for both kings, their hearts will be intent on evil, and they will speak falsehood at the same table; but it will not succeed, for the end is still to come at the appointed time." 
Daniel11:28 Then he will return to his land with great possessions; but his heart will be set against the holy covenant, and he will take action and then return to his own land." 
Daniel11:29 “At the appointed time he will return and come into the South, but this last time it will not happen the way it did before." 
Daniel11:30 Indeed, ships of Kittim will come against him; therefore he will be disheartened and will return and become indignant at the holy covenant and take action; so he will come back and show regard for those who forsake the holy covenant." 
Daniel11:31 Mighty forces from him will stand, profane the sanctuary fortress, and abolish the regular sacrifice. And they will set up the abomination of desolation." 
Daniel11:32 And by smooth words he will turn to godlessness those who act wickedly toward the covenant, but the people who know their God will display strength and take action." 
Daniel11:33 And those who have insight among the people will give understanding to the many; yet they will fall by sword and by flame, by captivity and by plunder for many days." 
Daniel11:34 Now when they fall, they will be granted a little help, and many will join with them in intrigue." 
Daniel11:35 And some of those who have insight will fall, in order to refine, purge, and make them pure until the time of the end, because it is still to come at the appointed time." 
Daniel11:36 “Then the king will do as he pleases, and he will exalt and magnify himself above every god and will speak astonishing things against the God of gods; and he will succeed until the indignation is finished, for that which is decreed will be done." 
Daniel11:37 He will show no regard for the gods of his fathers or for the desire of women, nor will he show regard for any other god; for he will magnify himself above them all." 
Daniel11:38 But instead he will honor a god of fortresses, a god whom his fathers did not know; he will honor him with gold, silver, costly stones, and desirable things." 
Daniel11:39 And he will take action against the strongest of fortresses with the help of a foreign god; he will give great honor to those who recognize him and will cause them to rule over the many and will apportion land for a price. 
Daniel11:40 “And at the time of the end, the king of the South will collide with him, and the king of the North will storm against him with chariots, with horsemen, and with many ships; and he will enter lands, overflow them, and pass through." 
Daniel11:41 And he will also enter the Beautiful Land, and many countries will fall; but these will be rescued out of his hand: Edom, Moab, and the foremost of the sons of Ammon." 
Daniel11:42 Then he will send forth his hand against other countries, and the land of Egypt will not escape." 
Daniel11:43 But he will rule over the hidden treasures of gold and silver and over all the desirable things of Egypt; and Libyans and Ethiopians will follow at his heels. 
Daniel11:44 But reports from the East and from the North will dismay him, and he will go forth with great wrath to destroy and devote many to destruction." 
Daniel11:45 And he will pitch the tents of his royal pavilion between the seas and the beautiful Holy Mountain; yet he will come to his end, and no one will help him." 
Daniel12:1 “Now at that time, Michael, the great prince who stands guard over the sons of your people, will stand. And there will be a time of distress such as never happened since there was a nation until that time; and at that time your people, everyone who is found written in the book, will be rescued." 
Daniel12:2 And many of those who sleep in the dust of the ground will awake, these to everlasting life, but the others to reproach and everlasting contempt." 
Daniel12:3 And those who have insight will shine brightly like the brightness of the expanse of heaven, and those who lead the many to righteousness, like the stars forever and ever." 
Daniel12:4 But as for you, Daniel, conceal these words and seal up the book until the time of the end; many will go to and fro, and knowledge will increase.”" 
Daniel12:5 Then I, Daniel, looked, and behold, two others were standing, one on this bank of the river and the other on that bank of the river." 
Daniel12:6 And one said to the man dressed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, “How long will it be until the end of these wonders?”" 
Daniel12:7 And I heard the man dressed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, as he raised his right hand and his left toward heaven, and swore by Him who lives forever that it would be for a time, times, and half a time; and as soon as they complete shattering the power of the holy people, all these events will be completed." 
Daniel12:8 As for me, I heard but could not understand; so I said, “My lord, what will be the outcome of these events?”" 
Daniel12:9 Then he said, “Go your way, Daniel, for these words are concealed and sealed up until the time of the end." 
Daniel12:10 Many will be purged, purified, and refined, but the wicked will act wickedly; and none of the wicked will understand, but those who have insight will understand." 
Daniel12:11 But from the time that the regular sacrifice is abolished and the abomination of desolation is set up, there will be 1,290 days." 
Daniel12:12 How blessed is he who keeps waiting and reaches the 1,335 days!" 
Daniel12:13 But as for you, go your way to the end; then you will enter into rest and stand again for your allotted portion at the end of the days.”" 
Hosea1:1 The word of Yahweh which came to Hosea the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel." 
Hosea1:2 When Yahweh first spoke through Hosea, Yahweh said to Hosea, “Go, take for yourself a wife of harlotry and have children of harlotry; for the land commits flagrant harlotry, forsaking Yahweh.”" 
Hosea1:3 So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim, and she conceived and gave birth to a son for him." 
Hosea1:4 And Yahweh said to him, “Name him Jezreel; for yet a little while, and I will visit the bloodshed of Jezreel upon the house of Jehu, and I will cause the kingdom of the house of Israel to cease." 
Hosea1:5 And it will be in that day, that I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezreel.”" 
Hosea1:6 Then she conceived again and gave birth to a daughter. And Yahweh said to him, “Name her Lo-ruhamah, for I will no longer have compassion on the house of Israel, that I would ever forgive them." 
Hosea1:7 But I will have compassion on the house of Judah and save them by Yahweh their God, and I will not save them by bow, sword, battle, horses, or horsemen.”" 
Hosea1:8 Then she weaned Lo-ruhamah. And she conceived and gave birth to a son. 
Hosea1:9 And Yahweh said, “Name him Lo-ammi, for you are not My people, and I am not your God.”" 
Hosea1:10 Yet the number of the sons of Israel Will be like the sand of the sea, Which cannot be measured or numbered; And it will be that in the place Where it is said to them, “You are not My people,” It will be said to them, “You are the sons of the living God.”" 
Hosea1:11 And the sons of Judah and the sons of Israel will be gathered together, And they will set for themselves one head, And they will go up from the land, For great will be the day of Jezreel." 
Hosea2:1 Say to your brothers, “Ammi,” and to your sisters, “Ruhamah.”" 
Hosea2:2 “Contend with your mother, contend, For she is not my wife, and I am not her husband; And let her remove her harlotry from her face And her adultery from between her breasts," 
Hosea2:3 Lest I strip her naked And set her forth as on the day when she was born And make her like a wilderness And make her like dry land And put her to death with thirst. 
Hosea2:4 Also, I will have no compassion on her children Because they are children of harlotry." 
Hosea2:5 For their mother has played the harlot; She who conceived them has acted shamefully. For she said, ‘I will go after my lovers, Who give me my bread and my water, My wool and my flax, my oil and my drink.’" 
Hosea2:6 Therefore, behold, I will hedge up her way with thorns, And I will build a wall against her so that she cannot find her paths." 
Hosea2:7 So she will pursue her lovers, but she will not overtake them; And she will seek them, but will not find them. Then she will say, ‘I will go, and I will return to my first husband, For it was better for me then than now!’" 
Hosea2:8 “Now she does not know that it was I who gave her the grain, the new wine, and the oil, And multiplied silver and gold for her, Which they used for Baal." 
Hosea2:9 Therefore, I will take back My grain at harvest time And My new wine in its season. I will also deliver My wool and My flax from them Given to cover her nakedness." 
Hosea2:10 So now I will uncover her lewdness In the sight of her lovers, And no one will deliver her out of My hand." 
Hosea2:11 I will also cease all her joy, Her feasts, her new moons, her sabbaths, And all her appointed times." 
Hosea2:12 And I will make desolate her vines and fig trees, Of which she said, ‘These are my wages Which my lovers have given me.’ And I will make them a forest, And the beasts of the field will devour them." 
Hosea2:13 So I will visit the days of the Baals upon her When she used to offer offerings in smoke to them And adorn herself with her earrings and jewelry And go after her lovers, so that she forgot Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Hosea2:14 “Therefore, behold, I will allure her And bring her into the wilderness And speak to her heart." 
Hosea2:15 Then I will give her her vineyards from there And the valley of Achor as a door of hope. And she will sing there as in the days of her youth, As in the day when she came up from the land of Egypt." 
Hosea2:16 And it will be in that day,” declares Yahweh, “That you will call Me Ishi And will no longer call Me Baali." 
Hosea2:17 So I will remove the names of the Baals from her mouth So that they will be remembered by their names no more. 
Hosea2:18 And in that day I will cut a covenant for them With the beasts of the field, The birds of the sky, And the creeping things of the ground. And I will break the bow, the sword, and war from the land, And I will make them lie down in security." 
Hosea2:19 And I will betroth you to Me forever; Indeed, I will betroth you to Me in righteousness and in justice, In lovingkindness and in compassion," 
Hosea2:20 And I will betroth you to Me in faithfulness. Then you will know Yahweh. 
Hosea2:21 “And it will be in that day, that I will answer,” declares Yahweh. “I will answer the heavens, and they will answer the earth," 
Hosea2:22 And the earth will answer the grain, the new wine, and the oil, And they will answer Jezreel." 
Hosea2:23 And I will sow her for Myself in the land. I will also have compassion on her who had not obtained compassion, And I will say to those who were not My people, ‘You are My people!’ And they will say, ‘You are my God!’”" 
Hosea3:1 Then Yahweh said to me, “Go again, love a woman who is loved by her companion and is an adulteress, even as Yahweh loves the sons of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love raisin cakes.”" 
Hosea3:2 So I bargained for her for myself for fifteen shekels of silver and a homer and a half of barley. 
Hosea3:3 Then I said to her, “You shall stay with me for many days. You shall not play the harlot, nor shall you have a man; so I will also be toward you.”" 
Hosea3:4 For the sons of Israel will remain for many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or sacred pillar, and without ephod or household idols." 
Hosea3:5 Afterward the sons of Israel will return and seek Yahweh their God and David their king; and they will come in dread to Yahweh and to His goodness in the last days. 
Hosea4:1 Listen to the word of Yahweh, O sons of Israel, For Yahweh has a contention against the inhabitants of the land, Because there is no truth or lovingkindness Or knowledge of God in the land." 
Hosea4:2 There is swearing of oaths, deception, murder, stealing, and adultery. They break forth in violence so that bloodshed follows bloodshed." 
Hosea4:3 Therefore the land mourns, And everyone who inhabits it languishes Along with the beasts of the field and the birds of the sky, And also the fish of the sea disappear." 
Hosea4:4 Yet let no man contend, and let no man offer reproof; Indeed, your people are like those who contend with the priest." 
Hosea4:5 So you will stumble by day, And the prophet also will stumble with you by night; And I will destroy your mother." 
Hosea4:6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Because you have rejected knowledge, I also will reject you from ministering as My priest. Since you have forgotten the law of your God, I Myself also will forget your children." 
Hosea4:7 The more they multiplied, the more they sinned against Me; I will change their glory into disgrace." 
Hosea4:8 They eat the sin of My people And lift up their soul toward their iniquity. 
Hosea4:9 And it will be like people, like priest; So I will punish them for their ways And cause their deeds to return to them." 
Hosea4:10 They will eat, but not be satisfied; They will play the harlot, but not break forth in number, Because they have forsaken Yahweh to keep harlotry." 
Hosea4:11 Harlotry, wine, and new wine take away a heart of wisdom." 
Hosea4:12 My people ask their wooden idol, and their diviner’s wand declares to them; For a spirit of harlotry has led them astray, And they have played the harlot, departing from their God." 
Hosea4:13 They offer sacrifices on the tops of the mountains And burn incense on the hills, Under oak, poplar, and terebinth Because their shade is good. Therefore your daughters play the harlot, And your brides commit adultery." 
Hosea4:14 I will not punish your daughters when they play the harlot Or your brides when they commit adultery, For the men themselves go apart with harlots And offer sacrifices with cult prostitutes; So the people without understanding are ruined." 
Hosea4:15 Though you, Israel, play the harlot, Do not let Judah become guilty; Also do not go to Gilgal Nor go up to Beth‑aven And swear the oath: “As Yahweh lives!”" 
Hosea4:16 Since Israel is stubborn Like a stubborn heifer, Can Yahweh now feed them Like a lamb in a large field?" 
Hosea4:17 Ephraim is joined to idols; Let him alone. 
Hosea4:18 Their drink gone; They play the harlot continually; Their rulers dearly love disgrace. 
Hosea4:19 The wind binds them up in its wings, And they will be ashamed because of their sacrifices." 
Hosea5:1 Hear this, O priests! Give heed, O house of Israel! Give ear, O house of the king! For the judgment is for you, For you have been a snare at Mizpah And a net spread out on Tabor." 
Hosea5:2 And the revolters have dug deep into slaughtering, But I will chastise all of them." 
Hosea5:3 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from Me; For now, O Ephraim, you have played the harlot; Israel has defiled itself." 
Hosea5:4 Their deeds will not allow them To return to their God. For a spirit of harlotry is within them, And they do not know Yahweh." 
Hosea5:5 Moreover, the pride of Israel answers against him, And Israel and Ephraim stumble in their iniquity; Judah also has stumbled with them." 
Hosea5:6 They will go with their flocks and herds To seek Yahweh, but they will not find Him; He has withdrawn from them." 
Hosea5:7 They have dealt treacherously against Yahweh, For they have borne children of strangers. Now the new moon will devour them with their portions." 
Hosea5:8 Blow the horn in Gibeah, The trumpet in Ramah. Make a loud shout at Beth‑aven: “Behind you, Benjamin!”" 
Hosea5:9 Ephraim will become a desolation in the day of reproof; Among the tribes of Israel I will make known what is true. 
Hosea5:10 The princes of Judah have become like those who move a boundary; On them I will pour out My wrath like water. 
Hosea5:11 Ephraim is oppressed, crushed in judgment, Because he was determined to walk after man’s command." 
Hosea5:12 Therefore I am like a moth to Ephraim And like rottenness to the house of Judah. 
Hosea5:13 Then Ephraim saw his sickness, And Judah his sore, So Ephraim went to Assyria And sent to King Jareb. But he is unable to heal you Or to cure you of your sore." 
Hosea5:14 For I will be like a lion to Ephraim And like a young lion to the house of Judah. I, even I, will tear to pieces and go away; I will carry away, and there will be none to deliver." 
Hosea5:15 I will go away and return to My place Until they acknowledge their guilt and seek My face; In their affliction they will seek Me earnestly. 
Hosea6:1 “Come, let us return to Yahweh. For He has torn us, but He will heal us; He has struck us, but He will bandage us." 
Hosea6:2 He will make us alive after two days; He will raise us up on the third day, That we may live before Him." 
Hosea6:3 So let us know, let us pursue to know Yahweh. His going forth is established as the dawn; And He will come to us like the rain, Like the late rain watering the earth.”" 
Hosea6:4 What shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? For your lovingkindness is like a morning cloud And like the dew which goes away early." 
Hosea6:5 Therefore I have hewn them in pieces by the prophets; I have killed them by the words of My mouth; And the judgments on you are like the light that goes forth. 
Hosea6:6 For I delight in lovingkindness rather than sacrifice, And in the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings." 
Hosea6:7 But like Adam they have trespassed against the covenant; There they have dealt treacherously against Me. 
Hosea6:8 Gilead is a city of workers of iniquity, With a track of blood." 
Hosea6:9 And as raiders wait for a man, So a band of priests murder on the way to Shechem; Surely they have committed lewdness." 
Hosea6:10 In the house of Israel I have seen an appalling thing; Ephraim’s harlotry is there; Israel has defiled itself. 
Hosea6:11 Also, O Judah, there is a harvest set for you When I restore the fortunes of My people," 
Hosea7:1 When I would heal Israel, Then the iniquity of Ephraim is uncovered, And the evil deeds of Samaria, For they work falsehood; The thief enters in; Raiders ransack outside," 
Hosea7:2 And they do not say to their hearts That I remember all their evil. Now their deeds are all around them; They are before My face. 
Hosea7:3 With their evil they make the king glad, And the princes with their deceptions." 
Hosea7:4 They are all adulterers, Like an oven heated by the baker Who ceases to stir up the fire From the kneading of the dough until it is leavened." 
Hosea7:5 On the day of our king, the princes became sick with the heat of wine; He stretched out his hand with scoffers," 
Hosea7:6 For their hearts are like an oven As they draw near in their plotting; Their anger smolders all night; In the morning it burns like a flaming fire. 
Hosea7:7 All of them are hot like an oven, And they devour their judges; All their kings have fallen. None of them calls on Me." 
Hosea7:8 Ephraim mixes himself with the peoples; Ephraim has become a cake not turned. 
Hosea7:9 Strangers devour his power, Yet he does not know it; Gray hairs also are sprinkled on him, Yet he does not know it." 
Hosea7:10 So the pride of Israel answers against him, Yet they have not returned to Yahweh their God, Nor have they sought Him, for all this." 
Hosea7:11 So Ephraim has become like a silly dove, without a heart of wisdom; They call to Egypt; they go to Assyria." 
Hosea7:12 When they go, I will spread My net over them; I will bring them down like the birds of the sky. I will chastise them in accordance with the report to their congregation." 
Hosea7:13 Woe to them, for they have fled from Me! Destruction is theirs, for they have transgressed against Me! And I would redeem them, but they speak lies against Me." 
Hosea7:14 And they do not cry out to Me in their heart When they wail on their beds; For the sake of grain and new wine they gather together as sojourners; They depart from Me. 
Hosea7:15 Although I disciplined and strengthened their arms, Yet they devise evil against Me." 
Hosea7:16 They turn, but not upward; They are like a deceitful bow; Their princes will fall by the sword Because of the indignation of their tongue. This will be their scoffing in the land of Egypt." 
Hosea8:1 Put the trumpet to your mouth! Like an eagle the enemy comes against the house of Yahweh Because they have trespassed against My covenant And transgressed against My law. 
Hosea8:2 They cry out to Me, “My God, we of Israel know You!”" 
Hosea8:3 Israel has rejected the good; The enemy will pursue him. 
Hosea8:4 They have set up kings, but not by Me; They have appointed princes, but I did not know it. With their silver and gold they have made idols for themselves, That they might be cut off." 
Hosea8:5 He has rejected your calf, O Samaria, saying, “My anger burns against them!” How long will they be incapable of innocence?" 
Hosea8:6 For from Israel is even this! A craftsman made it, so it is not God; Surely the calf of Samaria will be smashed to splinters." 
Hosea8:7 For they sow the wind, And they reap the whirlwind. The standing grain has no growth; It makes no flour. Should it make anything, strangers would swallow it up." 
Hosea8:8 Israel is swallowed up; They are now among the nations Like a vessel in which no one delights. 
Hosea8:9 For they have gone up to Assyria Like a wild donkey all alone; Ephraim has hired lovers. 
Hosea8:10 Even though they hire allies among the nations, Now I will gather them up; And they will begin to diminish Because of the burden of the king of princes." 
Hosea8:11 Since Ephraim has multiplied altars for sin, They have become altars of sinning for him." 
Hosea8:12 Though I wrote for him ten thousand precepts of My law, They are counted as a strange thing." 
Hosea8:13 As for My sacrificial gifts, They sacrifice the flesh and eat it, But Yahweh has not accepted them. Now He will remember their iniquity And punish them for their sins; They will return to Egypt." 
Hosea8:14 So Israel has forgotten his Maker and built palaces; And Judah has multiplied fortified cities, But I will send a fire on its cities that it may consume its palatial dwellings." 
Hosea9:1 Do not be glad, O Israel, with rejoicing like the peoples! For you have played the harlot, forsaking your God. You have loved harlots’ earnings on every threshing floor." 
Hosea9:2 Threshing floor and wine press will not feed them, And the new wine will deceive them." 
Hosea9:3 They will not remain in the land of Yahweh, But Ephraim will return to Egypt, And in Assyria they will eat unclean food." 
Hosea9:4 They will not pour out drink offerings of wine to Yahweh; Their sacrifices will not please Him. Their bread will be like mourners’ bread; All who eat of it will be defiled, For their bread will be for themselves alone; It will not enter the house of Yahweh." 
Hosea9:5 What will you do on the day of the appointed festival And on the day of the feast of Yahweh? 
Hosea9:6 For behold, they will go because of destruction; Egypt will gather them up; Memphis will bury them. Weeds will possess their desirable items of silver; Thorns will be in their tents." 
Hosea9:7 The days of punishment have come; The days of recompense have come; Let Israel know this! The prophet is an ignorant fool, The inspired man has madness, Because of the abundance of your iniquity And because your hostility has abounded." 
Hosea9:8 Ephraim was a watchman with my God, a prophet; Yet the snare of a bird catcher is in all his ways, And there is only hostility in the house of his God." 
Hosea9:9 They have dug deep in corruption As in the days of Gibeah; He will remember their iniquity; He will punish their sins. 
Hosea9:10 I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the earliest fruit on the fig tree in its first season. But they came to Baal‑peor and devoted themselves to shame, And they became as detestable as that which they loved." 
Hosea9:11 As for Ephraim, their glory will fly away like a bird— No birth, no pregnancy, and no conception!" 
Hosea9:12 Though they bring up their children, Yet I will bereave them until not a man is left. Surely, woe to them indeed when I depart from them!" 
Hosea9:13 Ephraim, as I have seen, Is planted in a pasture like Tyre; But Ephraim will bring out his children for killing." 
Hosea9:14 Give them, O Yahweh—what will You give? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts." 
Hosea9:15 All their evil is at Gilgal; Indeed, I came to hate them there! Because of the evil of their deeds I will drive them out of My house! I will love them no more; All their princes are rebels." 
Hosea9:16 Ephraim is stricken; their root is dried up; They will bear no fruit. Even though they bear children, I will put to death the desirable ones of their womb." 
Hosea9:17 My God will despise them Because they have not listened to Him; And they will be those who flee among the nations. 
Hosea10:1 Israel is a luxuriant vine; He produces fruit for himself. The more abundant his fruit, The more altars he abounded; The better his land, The better he made the sacred pillars." 
Hosea10:2 Their heart is faithless; Now they must bear their guilt. Yahweh will break down their altars And destroy their sacred pillars. 
Hosea10:3 Surely now they will say, “We have no king, For we do not fear Yahweh. As for the king, what can he do for us?”" 
Hosea10:4 They speak mere words; With worthless oaths they cut covenants; And judgment flourishes like gall in the furrows of the field. 
Hosea10:5 The dweller of Samaria will fear For the calf of Beth‑aven. Indeed, its people will mourn for it, And its idolatrous priests will cry out over it, Over its glory, since it has gone into exile from them." 
Hosea10:6 The thing itself will be carried to Assyria As tribute to King Jareb; Ephraim will receive shame, And Israel will be ashamed of its own counsel." 
Hosea10:7 Samaria will be ruined with her king Like a stick on the surface of the water. 
Hosea10:8 Also the high places of Aven, the sin of Israel, will be eradicated; Thorn and thistle will grow on their altars; Then they will say to the mountains, “Cover us!” And to the hills, “Fall on us!”" 
Hosea10:9 From the days of Gibeah you have sinned, O Israel; There they stand! Will not the battle against the sons of injustice overtake them in Gibeah?" 
Hosea10:10 When it is My desire, I will chastise them; And the peoples will be gathered against them When they are bound for their double guilt." 
Hosea10:11 And Ephraim is a trained heifer that loves to thresh, But I will come over her fair neck with a yoke; I will harness Ephraim; Judah will plow; Jacob will harrow for himself." 
Hosea10:12 Sow with a view to righteousness, Reap in accordance with lovingkindness; Break up your fallow ground, Indeed, it is time to seek Yahweh Until He comes and rains righteousness on you." 
Hosea10:13 You have plowed wickedness; you have reaped injustice; You have eaten the fruit of deception. Because you have trusted in your way, in your abundant warriors," 
Hosea10:14 Therefore a rumbling will arise among your people, And all your fortifications will be destroyed, As Shalman destroyed Beth‑arbel on the day of battle, When mothers were dashed in pieces with their children." 
Hosea10:15 Thus it will be done to you at Bethel because of your evil of evils. At dawn the king of Israel will be completely ruined. 
Hosea11:1 When Israel was a youth I loved him, And out of Egypt I called My son." 
Hosea11:2 The more they called them, The more they went from them; They kept sacrificing to the Baals And burning incense to graven images." 
Hosea11:3 Yet it is I who taught Ephraim to walk; I took them in My arms; But they did not know that I healed them. 
Hosea11:4 I led them with cords of a man, with bonds of love, And I became to them as one who lifts the yoke from their jaws; And I bent down and fed them." 
Hosea11:5 They will not return to the land of Egypt; But Assyria—he will be their king Because they refused to return to Me. 
Hosea11:6 And the sword will whirl against their cities And will consume their gate bars And devour them because of their counsels. 
Hosea11:7 So My people are hung up on turning from Me. Though they call them to the One on high, None at all exalts Him." 
Hosea11:8 How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I surrender you, O Israel? How can I give you over to be like Admah? How can I make you like Zeboiim? My heart is turned over within Me; All My compassions are stirred." 
Hosea11:9 I will not execute My burning anger; I will not make Ephraim a ruin again. For I am God and not man, the Holy One in your midst, And I will not come in wrath." 
Hosea11:10 They will walk after Yahweh; He will roar like a lion; Indeed, He will roar, And His sons will come trembling from the west." 
Hosea11:11 They will come trembling like birds from Egypt And like doves from the land of Assyria; And I will settle them in their houses, declares Yahweh." 
Hosea11:12 Ephraim surrounds Me with lies And the house of Israel with deceit; And Judah is also unruly against God, Even against the Holy One who is faithful." 
Hosea12:1 Ephraim feeds on wind And pursues the east wind continually; He abounds in falsehood and destruction. Moreover, he cuts a covenant with Assyria, And oil is carried to Egypt." 
Hosea12:2 And Yahweh has a contention with Judah And will punish Jacob according to his ways; He will cause everything to return to him according to his deeds. 
Hosea12:3 In the womb he took his brother by the heel, And in his maturity he wrestled with God." 
Hosea12:4 Indeed, he wrestled with the angel and prevailed; He wept and sought His favor. He found Him at Bethel, And there He spoke with us," 
Hosea12:5 Even Yahweh, the God of hosts, Yahweh is His name of remembrance." 
Hosea12:6 Therefore, return to your God, Keep lovingkindness and justice, And hope in your God continually." 
Hosea12:7 A merchant, in whose hands are deceptive balances, He loves to oppress." 
Hosea12:8 And Ephraim said, “Surely I have become rich; I have found wealth for myself; In all my labors they will find in me No iniquity, which would be sin.”" 
Hosea12:9 But I have been Yahweh your God since the land of Egypt; I will make you settle in tents again, As in the days of the appointed festival." 
Hosea12:10 And I have spoken to the prophets, And I made visions abound, And by the hand of the prophets I gave parables." 
Hosea12:11 Is there wickedness in Gilead? Surely they are worthless. In Gilgal they sacrifice bulls; Yes, their altars are like the stone heaps Beside the furrows of the field." 
Hosea12:12 Now Jacob fled to the field of Aram, And Israel worked for a wife, And for a wife he kept sheep." 
Hosea12:13 But by a prophet Yahweh brought Israel up from Egypt, And by a prophet he was kept." 
Hosea12:14 Ephraim has provoked to bitter anger; So his Lord will leave his bloodguilt on him And cause his reproach to return to him. 
Hosea13:1 When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling. He lifted himself up in Israel, But through Baal he became guilty and died." 
Hosea13:2 And now they sin more and more And make for themselves molten images, Idols made from their silver according to their understanding, All of them the work of craftsmen. They are saying of them, “Let the men who sacrifice kiss the calves!”" 
Hosea13:3 Therefore they will be like the morning cloud And like dew which soon disappears, Like chaff which is blown away from the threshing floor And like smoke from a chimney." 
Hosea13:4 Yet I have been Yahweh your God Since the land of Egypt; And you were not to know any god except Me, And there is no savior besides Me." 
Hosea13:5 I Myself knew you in the wilderness, In the land of drought." 
Hosea13:6 As they had their pasture, then they became satisfied, Indeed, they were satisfied, and their heart became raised up; Therefore they forgot Me." 
Hosea13:7 So I will be like a lion to them; Like a leopard I will lie in wait by the wayside. 
Hosea13:8 I will encounter them like a bear robbed of her cubs, And I will tear open the chest enclosing their heart; There I will also devour them like a lioness, As a beast of the field would rip them open." 
Hosea13:9 It is your ruin, O Israel, That you are against Me, against your help." 
Hosea13:10 Where now is your king, That he may save you in all your cities, And your judges of whom you said, “Give me a king and princes”?" 
Hosea13:11 I gave you a king in My anger And took him away in My wrath. 
Hosea13:12 The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; His sin is stored up. 
Hosea13:13 The pains of childbirth come upon him; He is not a wise son, For it is not the time that he should delay at the opening of the womb." 
Hosea13:14 Shall I ransom them from the power of Sheol? Shall I redeem them from death? O Death, where are your thorns? O Sheol, where is your sting? Compassion will be hidden from My sight." 
Hosea13:15 Though he is fruitful among the reeds, An east wind will come, The wind of Yahweh coming up from the wilderness; And his fountain will become dry, And his spring will be dried up; It will plunder his treasury of every desirable article." 
Hosea13:16 Samaria will be held guilty, For she has rebelled against her God. They will fall by the sword; Their infants will be dashed in pieces, And their pregnant women will be ripped open." 
Hosea14:1 Return, O Israel, to Yahweh your God, For you have stumbled in your iniquity." 
Hosea14:2 Take words with you and return to Yahweh. Say to Him, “Forgive all iniquity And take what is good, That we may pay in full the fruit of our lips." 
Hosea14:3 Assyria will not save us; We will not ride on horses, Nor will we say again, ‘Our god,’ To the work of our hands; For in You the orphan finds compassion.”" 
Hosea14:4 I will heal their turning away from Me; I will love them freely, For My anger has turned away from them." 
Hosea14:5 I will be like the dew to Israel; He will flourish like the lily, And he will take root like the cedars of Lebanon." 
Hosea14:6 His shoots will go forth, And his splendor will be like the olive tree And his fragrance like the cedars of Lebanon." 
Hosea14:7 Those who live in his shadow Will again raise grain, And they will flourish like the vine. His name of remembrance will be like the wine of Lebanon." 
Hosea14:8 O Ephraim, what more have I to do with idols? It is I who answer and look after you. I am like a luxuriant cypress; From Me comes your fruit." 
Hosea14:9 Whoever is wise, so let him discern these things; Whoever is discerning, let him know them. For the ways of Yahweh are right, And the righteous will walk in them, But transgressors will stumble in them." 
Joel1:1 The word of Yahweh that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel:" 
Joel1:2 Hear this, O elders, And give ear, all inhabitants of the land. Has anything like this happened in your days Or in your fathers’ days?" 
Joel1:3 Recount about it to your sons, And let your sons recount about it to their sons, And their sons to the next generation." 
Joel1:4 What the gnawing locust has left, the swarming locust has consumed; And what the swarming locust has left, the creeping locust has consumed; And what the creeping locust has left, the stripping locust has consumed." 
Joel1:5 Awake, drunkards, and weep; And wail, all you wine drinkers, On account of the sweet wine That is cut off from your mouth." 
Joel1:6 For a nation has come up against my land, Mighty and without number; Its teeth are the teeth of a lion, And it has the fangs of a lioness." 
Joel1:7 It has made my vine a desolation And my fig tree splinters. It has stripped them bare and cast them away; Their branches have become white. 
Joel1:8 Wail like a virgin girded with sackcloth For the bridegroom of her youth. 
Joel1:9 The grain offering and the drink offering are cut off From the house of Yahweh. The priests mourn, The ministers of Yahweh." 
Joel1:10 The field is destroyed; The land mourns, For the grain is destroyed, The new wine dries up, Fresh oil fails." 
Joel1:11 Be ashamed, O farmers, Wail, O vinedressers, For the wheat and the barley, Because the harvest of the field perishes." 
Joel1:12 The vine dries up, And the fig tree fails; The pomegranate, the palm also, and the apple tree, All the trees of the field dry up. Indeed, rejoicing dries up From the sons of men." 
Joel1:13 Gird yourselves with sackcloth And lament, O priests; Wail, O ministers of the altar! Come, spend the night in sackcloth, O ministers of my God; For the grain offering and the drink offering Are withheld from the house of your God." 
Joel1:14 Set apart a fast as holy, Call for a solemn assembly; Gather the elders And all the inhabitants of the land To the house of Yahweh your God, And cry out to Yahweh." 
Joel1:15 Alas for the day! For the day of Yahweh is near, And it will come as destruction from the Almighty." 
Joel1:16 Has not food been cut off before our eyes, Gladness and joy from the house of our God?" 
Joel1:17 The seeds shrivel under their clods; The storehouses are desolate; The barns are pulled down, For the grain is dried up." 
Joel1:18 How the beasts groan! The herds of cattle wander aimlessly Because there is no pasture for them; Even the flocks of sheep suffer. 
Joel1:19 To You, O Yahweh, I cry; For fire has consumed the pastures of the wilderness, And the flame has burned up all the trees of the field." 
Joel1:20 Even the beasts of the field pant for You; For the water brooks are dried up, And fire has consumed the pastures of the wilderness." 
Joel2:1 Blow a trumpet in Zion, And make a loud shout on My holy mountain! Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, For the day of Yahweh is coming; Surely it is near," 
Joel2:2 A day of darkness and thick darkness, A day of clouds and dense gloom. As the dawn is spread over the mountains, So there is a numerous and mighty people; There has never been anything like it, Nor will there be again after it For the years from generation to generation." 
Joel2:3 A fire consumes before them, And behind them a flame burns. The land is like the garden of Eden before them But a desolate wilderness behind them, And nothing at all escapes them." 
Joel2:4 Their appearance is like the appearance of horses; And like war horses, so they run." 
Joel2:5 With a noise as of chariots They leap on the tops of the mountains, Like the crackling of a flame of fire consumes the stubble, Like a mighty people arranged for battle." 
Joel2:6 Before them the peoples are writhing; All faces turn pale. 
Joel2:7 They run like mighty men; They climb up the wall like men of war; And they each march in line, And they do not deviate from their paths." 
Joel2:8 They do not crowd each other; They march everyone in his path; When they fall against the defending weapons, They do not break ranks." 
Joel2:9 They rush on the city; They run on the wall; They climb up into the houses; They enter through the windows like a thief. 
Joel2:10 Before them the earth trembles; The heavens quake; The sun and the moon grow dark, And the stars lose their brightness." 
Joel2:11 But Yahweh gives forth His voice before His military force; Surely His camp is very numerous, For mighty is he who does His word. The day of Yahweh is indeed great and very awesome, And who can endure it?" 
Joel2:12 “Yet even now,” declares Yahweh, “Return to Me with all your heart And with fasting, weeping, and wailing;" 
Joel2:13 And tear your heart and not your garments.” Now return to Yahweh your God, For He is gracious and compassionate, Slow to anger, abounding in lovingkindness, And relenting concerning evil." 
Joel2:14 Who knows whether He will not turn and relent And leave a blessing behind Him, Even a grain offering and a drink offering For Yahweh your God?" 
Joel2:15 Blow a trumpet in Zion, Set apart a fast as holy, call for a solemn assembly," 
Joel2:16 Gather the people, set apart the congregation as holy, Assemble the elders, Gather the infants and the nursing babies. Let the bridegroom come out of his room And the bride out of her bridal chamber." 
Joel2:17 Let the priests, the ministers of Yahweh, Weep between the porch and the altar, And let them say, “Pity Your people, O Yahweh, And do not make Your inheritance a reproach, A byword among the nations. Why should they among the peoples say, ‘Where is their God?’”" 
Joel2:18 Then Yahweh will be zealous for His land And will spare His people. 
Joel2:19 Then Yahweh will answer and say to His people, “Behold, I am going to send you grain, new wine, and oil, And you will be satisfied in full with them; And I will never again make you a reproach among the nations." 
Joel2:20 But I will remove the northern military force far from you, And I will drive it into a parched and desolate land, And its vanguard into the eastern sea, And its rear guard into the western sea. And its stench will rise up, and its foul smell will rise up, For it has done great things.”" 
Joel2:21 Do not fear, O land, rejoice and be glad, For Yahweh has done great things." 
Joel2:22 Do not fear, beasts of the field, For the pastures of the wilderness have turned green, For the tree has borne its fruit; The fig tree and the vine have yielded their full force." 
Joel2:23 So rejoice, O sons of Zion, And be glad in Yahweh your God, For He has given you the early rain in righteousness. And He has poured down for you the rain, The early and late rains as before." 
Joel2:24 The threshing floors will be full of grain, And the vats will overflow with the new wine and oil." 
Joel2:25 “Then I will pay back to you in full for the years That the swarming locust has consumed, The creeping locust, the stripping locust, and the gnawing locust, My great military force which I sent among you." 
Joel2:26 And you will have plenty to consume and be satisfied And praise the name of Yahweh your God, Who has dealt wondrously with you; Then My people will never be put to shame." 
Joel2:27 Thus you will know that I am in the midst of Israel, And that I am Yahweh your God, And there is no other; And My people will never be put to shame." 
Joel2:28 “And it will be afterwards That I will pour out My Spirit on all mankind; And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy; Your old men will dream dreams; Your young men will see visions. 
Joel2:29 Even on the male slaves and female slaves I will in those days pour out My Spirit. 
Joel2:30 And I will put wonders in the sky and on the earth, Blood, fire, and columns of smoke." 
Joel2:31 The sun will be turned into darkness And the moon into blood Before the great and awesome day of Yahweh comes. 
Joel2:32 And it will be that everyone who calls on the name of Yahweh Will be delivered; For on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem There will be those who escape, As Yahweh has said, Even among the survivors whom Yahweh calls." 
Joel3:1 “For behold, in those days and at that time, When I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem," 
Joel3:2 I will gather all the nations And bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat. Then I will enter into judgment with them there On behalf of My people and My inheritance, Israel, Whom they have scattered among the nations; And they have divided up My land." 
Joel3:3 They have also cast lots for My people, Traded a boy for a harlot, And sold a girl for wine that they may drink." 
Joel3:4 Moreover, what are you to Me, O Tyre, Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Are you rendering Me a recompense? But if you do recompense Me, swiftly and speedily I will return your recompense on your head." 
Joel3:5 Since you have taken My silver and My gold, brought My desirable treasures to your temples," 
Joel3:6 and sold the sons of Judah and the sons of Jerusalem to the sons of the Greeks in order to remove them far from their borders," 
Joel3:7 behold, I am going to rouse them from the place where you have sold them and return your recompense on your head." 
Joel3:8 Also I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the sons of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabeans, to a distant nation,” for Yahweh has spoken." 
Joel3:9 Call out this message among the nations: Set yourselves apart for a war; rouse the mighty men! Let all the men of war approach, let them come up!" 
Joel3:10 Beat your plowshares into swords And your pruning hooks into spears; Let the weak say, “I am a mighty man.”" 
Joel3:11 Hasten and come, all you surrounding nations, And gather yourselves. There, bring down, O Yahweh, Your mighty ones." 
Joel3:12 Let the nations be roused up And come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat, For there I will sit to judge All the surrounding nations." 
Joel3:13 Send in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Come, tread, for the wine press is full; The vats overflow, for their evil is great." 
Joel3:14 Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision! For the day of Yahweh is near in the valley of decision." 
Joel3:15 The sun and moon grow dark, And the stars lose their brightness." 
Joel3:16 And Yahweh roars from Zion And gives forth His voice from Jerusalem, And the heavens and the earth quake. But Yahweh is a refuge for His people And a strong defense to the sons of Israel." 
Joel3:17 Then you will know that I am Yahweh your God, Dwelling in Zion, My holy mountain. So Jerusalem will be holy, And strangers will pass through it no more." 
Joel3:18 And it will be in that day, That the mountains will drip with sweet wine, And the hills will flow with milk, And all the brooks of Judah will flow with water; And a spring will go out from the house of Yahweh To water the valley of Shittim." 
Joel3:19 Egypt will become a desolation, And Edom will become a desolate wilderness, Because of the violence done to the sons of Judah, In whose land they have shed innocent blood." 
Joel3:20 But Judah will be inhabited forever And Jerusalem from generation to generation. 
Joel3:21 And I will avenge their blood which I have not avenged, Indeed, Yahweh dwells in Zion." 
Amos1:1 The words of Amos, who was among the sheepherders from Tekoa, which he beheld in visions concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake." 
Amos1:2 And he said, “Yahweh roars from Zion And from Jerusalem He gives forth His voice; And the shepherds’ pasture grounds mourn, And the top of Carmel dries up.”" 
Amos1:3 Thus says Yahweh, “For three transgressions of Damascus and for four I will not turn back its punishment Because they threshed Gilead with implements of sharp iron." 
Amos1:4 So I will send fire upon the house of Hazael, And it will consume the citadels of Ben‑hadad." 
Amos1:5 I will also break the gate bar of Damascus And cut off the inhabitant from the valley of Aven And him who holds the scepter from Beth‑eden; So the people of Aram will go into exile to Kir,” Says Yahweh." 
Amos1:6 Thus says Yahweh, “For three transgressions of Gaza and for four I will not turn back its punishment Because they took away into exile the whole community of exiles To deliver it up to Edom." 
Amos1:7 So I will send fire upon the wall of Gaza, And it will consume her citadels." 
Amos1:8 I will also cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod And him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon; I will even turn My hand against Ekron, And the remnant of the Philistines will perish,” Says Lord Yahweh." 
Amos1:9 Thus says Yahweh, “For three transgressions of Tyre and for four I will not turn back its punishment Because they delivered up the whole community of exiles to Edom And did not remember the covenant of brotherhood." 
Amos1:10 So I will send fire upon the wall of Tyre, And it will consume her citadels.”" 
Amos1:11 Thus says Yahweh, “For three transgressions of Edom and for four I will not turn back its punishment Because he pursued his brother with the sword While he corrupted his compassion; And his anger also tore continually, And he kept his wrath forever." 
Amos1:12 So I will send fire upon Teman, And it will consume the citadels of Bozrah.”" 
Amos1:13 Thus says Yahweh, “For three transgressions of the sons of Ammon and for four I will not turn back its punishment Because they ripped open the pregnant women of Gilead In order to enlarge their borders." 
Amos1:14 So I will kindle a fire on the wall of Rabbah, And it will consume her citadels Amid a loud shout on the day of battle And a storm on the day of tempest." 
Amos1:15 And their king will go into exile, He and his princes together,” Says Yahweh." 
Amos2:1 Thus says Yahweh, “For three transgressions of Moab and for four I will not turn back its punishment Because he burned the bones of the king of Edom to lime." 
Amos2:2 So I will send fire upon Moab, And it will consume the citadels of Kerioth; And Moab will die amid great rumbling, Amid a loud shout and the sound of a trumpet." 
Amos2:3 I will also cut off the judge from her midst And kill all her princes with him,” says Yahweh." 
Amos2:4 Thus says Yahweh, “For three transgressions of Judah and for four I will not turn back its punishment Because they rejected the law of Yahweh And have not kept His statutes; Their falsehood also has led them astray, That which their fathers walked after." 
Amos2:5 So I will send fire upon Judah, And it will consume the citadels of Jerusalem.”" 
Amos2:6 Thus says Yahweh, “For three transgressions of Israel and for four I will not turn back its punishment Because they sell the righteous for money And the needy for a pair of sandals." 
Amos2:7 These who pant after the very dust of the earth on the head of the poor Also turn aside the way of the humble; And a man and his father go to the same young woman In order to profane My holy name. 
Amos2:8 On garments taken as pledges they stretch out beside every altar, And in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have been fined." 
Amos2:9 “Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them, Though his height was like the height of cedars, And he was strong as the oaks; I even destroyed his fruit above and his root below." 
Amos2:10 And it was I who brought you up from the land of Egypt, And I led you in the wilderness forty years That you might take possession of the land of the Amorite." 
Amos2:11 Then I raised up some of your sons to be prophets And some of your choice men to be Nazirites. Is this not so, O sons of Israel?” declares Yahweh." 
Amos2:12 “But you made the Nazirites drink wine, And you commanded the prophets saying, ‘You shall not prophesy!’" 
Amos2:13 Behold, I am weighted down beneath you As a wagon is weighted down when filled with sheaves." 
Amos2:14 So flight will perish from the swift, And the strong will not instill his power with courage, Nor will the mighty man make his life escape." 
Amos2:15 He who grasps the bow will not stand his ground, The swift of foot will not escape, Nor will he who rides the horse make his life escape." 
Amos2:16 Even the most courageous of heart among the mighty men will flee naked in that day,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos3:1 Hear this word which Yahweh has spoken against you, sons of Israel, against the entire family which He brought up from the land of Egypt, saying," 
Amos3:2 “You only have I known among all the families of the earth; Therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.” 
Amos3:3 Do two men walk together unless they have made an appointment? 
Amos3:4 Does a lion roar in the forest when it has no prey? Does a young lion give forth its voice from its den unless it has captured something? 
Amos3:5 Does a bird fall into a trap on the ground when there is no bait in it? Does a trap spring up from the earth when it captures nothing at all? 
Amos3:6 If a trumpet is blown in a city will not the people tremble? If a calamity happens in a city has not Yahweh done it? 
Amos3:7 Surely Lord Yahweh does nothing Unless He reveals His secret counsel To His slaves the prophets. 
Amos3:8 A lion has roared! Who will not fear? Lord Yahweh has spoken! Who can but prophesy? 
Amos3:9 Make it heard on the citadels in Ashdod and on the citadels in the land of Egypt and say, “Gather yourselves on the mountains of Samaria and see the great confusions within her and the oppressions in her midst." 
Amos3:10 But they do not know how to do what is right,” declares Yahweh, “these who hoard up violence and devastation in their citadels.”" 
Amos3:11 Therefore, thus says Lord Yahweh, “An adversary, even one surrounding the land, Will pull down your strength from you, And your citadels will be plundered.”" 
Amos3:12 Thus says Yahweh, “Just as the shepherd delivers from the lion’s mouth a couple of legs or a piece of an ear, So will the sons of Israel inhabiting Samaria be delivered— With the corner of a bed and the cover of a couch!" 
Amos3:13 Hear and testify against the house of Jacob,” Declares Lord Yahweh, the God of hosts." 
Amos3:14 “For on the day that I punish Israel’s transgressions, I will also punish the altars of Bethel; The horns of the altar will be cut in pieces, And they will fall to the ground." 
Amos3:15 I will also strike the winter house together with the summer house; The houses of ivory will also perish, And the great houses will come to an end,” Declares Yahweh." 
Amos4:1 Hear this word, you cows of Bashan who are on the mountain of Samaria, Who oppress the poor, who crush the needy, Who say to their husbands, “Bring now, that we may drink!”" 
Amos4:2 Lord Yahweh has sworn by His holiness that, “Behold, the days are coming upon you, And they will take you away with meat hooks, And the last of you with fish hooks." 
Amos4:3 And you will go out through breaches in the walls, Each one straight before her, And you will be cast to Harmon,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos4:4 “Enter Bethel and transgress; In Gilgal multiply transgression! Bring your sacrifices every morning, Your tithes every three days." 
Amos4:5 And offer a thank offering also from that which is leavened, And call for freewill offerings; cause them to be heard about. For so you love to do, you sons of Israel,” Declares Lord Yahweh." 
Amos4:6 “But I gave you also cleanness of teeth in all your cities And lack of bread in all your places, Yet you have not returned to Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos4:7 “And I also withheld the rain from you While there were still three months until harvest. Then I would send rain on one city, And on another city I would not send rain; One portion would be rained on, While the portion not rained on would dry up." 
Amos4:8 So two or three cities would wander around to another city to drink water, But would not be satisfied; Yet you have not returned to Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos4:9 “I struck you with scorching wind and mildew; And the gnawing locust was devouring Your many gardens and vineyards, fig trees, and olive trees; Yet you have not returned to Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos4:10 “I sent a pestilence among you after the manner of Egypt; I killed your choice men by the sword along with your captured horses, And I made the stench of your camp rise up even in your nostrils; Yet you have not returned to Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos4:11 “I overthrew you as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, And you were like a firebrand delivered from a blaze; Yet you have not returned to Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos4:12 “Therefore thus I will do to you, O Israel; Because I will do this to you, Prepare to meet your God, O Israel.”" 
Amos4:13 For behold, He who forms mountains and creates the wind And declares to man what are His thoughts, He who makes dawn into gloom And treads on the high places of the earth, Yahweh God of hosts is His name." 
Amos5:1 Hear this word which I take up for you as a funeral lament, O house of Israel:" 
Amos5:2 She has fallen; she will not rise again— The virgin Israel. She lies abandoned on her land; There is none to raise her up. 
Amos5:3 For thus says Lord Yahweh, “The city which goes forth one thousand strong Will have one hundred left, And the one which goes forth one hundred strong Will have ten left to the house of Israel.”" 
Amos5:4 For thus says Yahweh to the house of Israel, “Seek Me that you may live." 
Amos5:5 But do not seek Bethel, And do not come to Gilgal, Nor cross over to Beersheba; For Gilgal will certainly go into exile, And Bethel will become evil." 
Amos5:6 Seek Yahweh that you may live, Lest He come mightily like a fire, O house of Joseph, And it will consume with none to quench it for Bethel," 
Amos5:7 For those who overturn justice into wormwood And put righteousness down to the earth.” 
Amos5:8 He who made the Pleiades and Orion And overturns the shadow of death into morning, Who also darkens day into night, Who calls for the waters of the sea And pours them out on the surface of the earth, Yahweh is His name." 
Amos5:9 It is He who flashes forth with devastation upon the strong So that devastation comes upon the fortification. 
Amos5:10 They hate him who reproves in the gate, And they abhor him who speaks with integrity." 
Amos5:11 Therefore because you impose heavy rent on the poor And take a tribute of grain from them, Though you have built houses of cut stone, Yet you will not live in them; You have planted desirable vineyards, yet you will not drink their wine." 
Amos5:12 For I know your transgressions are many and your sins are mighty, You who distress the righteous and take bribes And turn aside the needy in the gate." 
Amos5:13 Therefore at such a time the one with insight keeps silent, for it is an evil time." 
Amos5:14 Seek good and not evil, in order that you may live; And thus may Yahweh God of hosts be with you, Just as you have said!" 
Amos5:15 Hate evil, love good, And set justice at the gate! Perhaps Yahweh God of hosts May be gracious to the remnant of Joseph." 
Amos5:16 Therefore thus says Yahweh God of hosts, the Lord, “There is wailing in all the plazas, And in all the streets they say, ‘Alas! Alas!’ They also call the farmer to mourning And professional weepers to wailing." 
Amos5:17 And in all the vineyards there is wailing Because I will pass through the midst of you,” says Yahweh." 
Amos5:18 Woe, you who are longing for the day of Yahweh, For what purpose will the day of Yahweh be to you? It will be darkness and not light;" 
Amos5:19 As when a man flees from a lion And a bear meets him; Or he goes home, leans his hand against the wall, And a snake bites him." 
Amos5:20 Will not the day of Yahweh be darkness instead of light, Even thick darkness with no brightness in it?" 
Amos5:21 “I hate, I reject your feasts, Nor do I delight in your solemn assemblies." 
Amos5:22 Even though you offer up to Me burnt offerings and your grain offerings, I will not accept them; And I will not even look at the peace offerings of your fatlings." 
Amos5:23 Remove from Me the tumult of your songs; I will not even listen to the melody of your harps. 
Amos5:24 But let justice roll down like waters And righteousness like an ever‑flowing stream. 
Amos5:25 “Did you present Me with sacrifices and grain offerings in the wilderness for forty years, O house of Israel?" 
Amos5:26 You also carried along Sikkuth your king and Kiyyun, your images, the star of your gods which you made for yourselves." 
Amos5:27 Therefore, I will make you go into exile beyond Damascus,” says Yahweh, whose name is the God of hosts." 
Amos6:1 Woe to those who are at ease in Zion And to those who feel secure in the mountain of Samaria, The distinguished men of the first of the nations, To whom the house of Israel comes." 
Amos6:2 Pass on over to Calneh and look, And go from there to Hamath the great, Then go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are they better than these kingdoms, Or are their borders greater than your borders?" 
Amos6:3 Do you put off the day of calamity, And would you cause the seat of violence to approach?" 
Amos6:4 Those who lay down on beds of ivory And sprawl on their couches And eat lambs from the flock And calves from the midst of the stall," 
Amos6:5 Who improvise to the sound of the harp, And like David have composed songs for themselves," 
Amos6:6 Who drink wine from sacrificial bowls While they anoint themselves with the first pick of the oils, Yet they have not grieved over the destruction of Joseph." 
Amos6:7 Therefore, they will now go into exile among the first of the exiles, And the sprawlers’ banqueting will turn aside." 
Amos6:8 Lord Yahweh has sworn by Himself, Yahweh God of hosts has declared: “I abhor the lofty pride of Jacob And hate his citadels; Therefore I will deliver up the city as well as its fullness.”" 
Amos6:9 And it will be, if ten men are left in one house, they will die." 
Amos6:10 Then one’s uncle, or the one who burns his bones, will lift him up to bring out his bones from the house, and he will say to the one who is in the innermost part of the house, “Is anyone else with you?” And that one will say, “No one.” Then he will answer, “Keep quiet. For the name of Yahweh is not to be mentioned.”" 
Amos6:11 For behold, Yahweh is going to command and will strike the great house to pieces and the small house to fragments." 
Amos6:12 Do horses run on rocks? Or does one plow them with oxen? Yet you have overturned justice into gall And the fruit of righteousness into wormwood," 
Amos6:13 You who are glad in Lo‑debar And say, “Have we not by our own strength taken Karnaim for ourselves?”" 
Amos6:14 “For behold, I am going to raise up a nation against you, O house of Israel,” declares Yahweh God of hosts, “And they will press down on you from Lebo‑hamath To the brook of the Arabah.”" 
Amos7:1 Thus Lord Yahweh showed me, and behold, He was forming a locust-swarm when the spring crop began to come up. And behold, the spring crop was after the king’s mowing." 
Amos7:2 And it happened when it had completed eating the vegetation of the land, that I said, “Lord Yahweh, please pardon! How can Jacob rise up, For he is small?”" 
Amos7:3 Yahweh relented concerning this. “It shall not be,” said Yahweh." 
Amos7:4 Thus Lord Yahweh showed me, and behold, Lord Yahweh was calling to contend with them by fire, and it consumed the great deep and began to consume the farm land." 
Amos7:5 Then I said, “Lord Yahweh, please stop! How can Jacob rise up, for he is small?”" 
Amos7:6 Yahweh relented concerning this. “This too shall not be,” said Lord Yahweh." 
Amos7:7 Thus He showed me, and behold, the Lord was standing by a wall made with a plumb line, and in His hand was a plumb line." 
Amos7:8 And Yahweh said to me, “What do you see, Amos?” And I said, “A plumb line.” Then the Lord said, “Behold, I am about to put a plumb line In the midst of My people Israel. I will pass over them no longer." 
Amos7:9 The high places of Isaac will be desolated And the sanctuaries of Israel laid waste. Then I will rise up against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.” 
Amos7:10 Then Amaziah, the priest of Bethel, sent word to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, “Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel; the land is unable to endure all his words." 
Amos7:11 For thus Amos says, ‘Jeroboam will die by the sword, and Israel will certainly go from its land into exile.’”" 
Amos7:12 Then Amaziah said to Amos, “Go, you seer, flee away to the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and there do your prophesying!" 
Amos7:13 But no longer prophesy at Bethel, for it is a sanctuary of the king and a royal house.”" 
Amos7:14 Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, “I am not a prophet, nor am I the son of a prophet; for I am a herdsman and a grower of sycamore figs." 
Amos7:15 But Yahweh took me from following the flock, and Yahweh said to me, ‘Go prophesy to My people Israel.’" 
Amos7:16 So now, hear the word of Yahweh: you are saying, ‘You shall not prophesy against Israel, nor shall you drip out words against the house of Isaac.’" 
Amos7:17 Therefore, thus says Yahweh, ‘Your wife will play the harlot in the city, your sons and your daughters will fall by the sword, your land will be divided up by a measuring line, and you yourself will die upon unclean land. Moreover, Israel will certainly go from its land into exile.’”" 
Amos8:1 Thus Lord Yahweh showed me, and behold, there was a basket of summer fruit." 
Amos8:2 And he said, “What do you see, Amos?” And I said, “A basket of summer fruit.” Then Yahweh said to me, “The end has come for My people Israel. I will pass over them no longer." 
Amos8:3 And they will wail with the songs of the palace in that day,” declares Lord Yahweh. “Many will be the corpses; in every place they will cast them forth in silence.”" 
Amos8:4 Hear this, you who trample the needy, even to cause the humble of the land to cease," 
Amos8:5 saying, “When will the new moon pass over, So that we may sell grain, And the sabbath, that we may open the wheat market, To make the bushel smaller and the shekel bigger, And to cheat with a deceptive balance," 
Amos8:6 So as to buy the poor for money And the needy for a pair of sandals, And that we may sell the refuse of the wheat?”" 
Amos8:7 Yahweh has sworn by the lofty pride of Jacob, “Indeed, I will never forget any of their works." 
Amos8:8 Because of this will not the land tremble And everyone who inhabits it mourn? Indeed, all of it will rise up like the Nile, And it will be tossed about And subside like the Nile of Egypt." 
Amos8:9 And it will be in that day,” declares Lord Yahweh, “That I will make the sun go down at noon And make the earth dark in broad daylight." 
Amos8:10 Then I will overturn your feasts into mourning And all your songs into lamentation; And I will bring up sackcloth on everyone’s loins And baldness on every head. And I will make it like a time of mourning for an only son, And the end of it will be like a bitter day." 
Amos8:11 “Behold, days are coming,” declares Lord Yahweh, “When I will send a famine on the land, Not a famine for bread or a thirst for water, But rather for hearing the words of Yahweh." 
Amos8:12 People will wander from sea to sea And from the north even to the east; They will go to and fro to seek the word of Yahweh, But they will not find it." 
Amos8:13 In that day the beautiful virgins And the choice men will faint from thirst. 
Amos8:14 As for those who swear by the guilt of Samaria, Who say, ‘As your god lives, O Dan,’ And, ‘As the way of Beersheba lives,’ They will fall and not rise again.”" 
Amos9:1 I saw the Lord standing beside the altar, and He said, “Strike the capitals so that the thresholds will quake, And break them on the heads of them all! Then I will kill the rest of them with the sword; Not one of them who can flee will flee, And not one of them who can survive will escape." 
Amos9:2 Though they dig into Sheol, From there will My hand take them; And though they ascend to heaven, From there will I bring them down." 
Amos9:3 And though they hide on the top of Carmel, From there I will search them out and take them; And though they conceal themselves from My eyes on the floor of the sea, From there I will command the serpent, and it will bite them." 
Amos9:4 And though they go into captivity before their enemies, From there I will command the sword that it kill them, And I will set My eyes against them for evil and not for good.”" 
Amos9:5 Now Lord Yahweh of hosts, The One who touches the land so that it melts, And all those who inhabit it mourn, And all of it rises up like the Nile And subsides like the Nile of Egypt;" 
Amos9:6 The One who builds His upper chambers in the heavens And has founded His vaulted dome over the earth; The One who calls for the waters of the sea And pours them out on the face of the earth; Yahweh is His name. 
Amos9:7 “Are you not as the sons of Ethiopia to Me, O sons of Israel?” declares Yahweh. “Have I not brought up Israel from the land of Egypt, And the Philistines from Caphtor and the Arameans from Kir?" 
Amos9:8 Behold, the eyes of Lord Yahweh are on the sinful kingdom, And I will destroy it from the face of the earth; Nevertheless, I will not totally destroy the house of Jacob,” Declares Yahweh." 
Amos9:9 “For behold, I am commanding, And I will shake the house of Israel among all nations As grain is shaken in a sieve, But not a kernel will fall to the ground." 
Amos9:10 All the sinners of My people will die by the sword, Those who say, ‘The calamity will not overtake or confront us.’" 
Amos9:11 “In that day I will raise up the fallen booth of David And wall up its breaches; I will also raise up its ruins And rebuild it as in the ancient days," 
Amos9:12 That they may possess the remnant of Edom And all the nations who are called by My name,” Declares Yahweh who does this." 
Amos9:13 “Behold, days are coming,” declares Yahweh, “When the plowman will overtake the reaper And the treader of grapes him who sows seed; When the mountains will drip sweet wine And all the hills will melt." 
Amos9:14 Also I will restore the captivity of My people Israel, And they will rebuild the desolated cities and live in them; They will also plant vineyards and drink their wine And make gardens and eat their fruit." 
Amos9:15 I will also plant them on their land, And they will not again be uprooted from their land Which I have given them,” Says Yahweh your God." 
Obadiah1:1 The vision of Obadiah. Thus says Lord Yahweh concerning Edom— We have heard a report from Yahweh, And an envoy has been sent among the nations saying, “Arise! And let us arise against her for battle”—" 
Obadiah1:2 “Behold, I will make you small among the nations; You are greatly despised." 
Obadiah1:3 The arrogance of your heart has deceived you, You who dwell in the clefts of the cliff, In the height of your habitation, Who says in his heart, ‘Who will bring me down to earth?’" 
Obadiah1:4 Though you build loftily like the eagle, Though you set your nest among the stars, From there I will bring you down,” declares Yahweh." 
Obadiah1:5 “If thieves came to you, If robbers by night— Oh how you will be ruined!— Would they not thieve only until they had enough? If grape gatherers came to you, Would they not allow some gleanings to remain?" 
Obadiah1:6 Oh how Esau will be searched out And his hidden treasures ransacked! 
Obadiah1:7 All the men who have a covenant with you Will send you forth to the border, And the men at peace with you Will deceive you and overpower you. They who eat your bread Will set an ambush for you. (There is no discernment in him.)" 
Obadiah1:8 Will I not on that day,” declares Yahweh, “Cause the wise men to perish from Edom And discernment from the mountain of Esau?" 
Obadiah1:9 Then your mighty men will be dismayed, O Teman, So that each one may be cut off from the mountain of Esau by slaughter." 
Obadiah1:10 “Because of violence to your brother Jacob, You will be covered with shame, And you will be cut off forever." 
Obadiah1:11 On the day that you stood aloof, On the day that strangers took his wealth captive And foreigners entered his gate And cast lots for Jerusalem— You too were as one of them." 
Obadiah1:12 Now do not look on your brother’s day with triumph, The day of his misfortune. And do not be glad over the sons of Judah In the day when they perish; And do not let your mouth speak great things In the day of their distress." 
Obadiah1:13 Do not enter the gate of My people In the day of their disaster. Indeed, you, do not look on their calamity with triumph In the day of their disaster. And do not send out for their wealth In the day of their disaster." 
Obadiah1:14 Do not stand at the fork of the road To cut down those among them who escape; And do not deliver over their survivors In the day of their distress. 
Obadiah1:15 “For the day of Yahweh draws near on all the nations. As you have done, it will be done to you. Your dealings will return on your own head." 
Obadiah1:16 Because just as you all drank on My holy mountain, All the nations will drink continually. They will drink and swallow, And they will be as if they never were." 
Obadiah1:17 But on Mount Zion there will be those who escape, And it will be holy. And the house of Jacob will possess their possessions." 
Obadiah1:18 Then the house of Jacob will be a fire And the house of Joseph a flame; But the house of Esau will be as stubble. And they will set them on fire and consume them So that there will be no survivor of the house of Esau,” For Yahweh has spoken." 
Obadiah1:19 Then those of the Negev will possess the mountain of Esau, And those of the Shephelah, the Philistine plain; And they will possess the territory of Ephraim and the territory of Samaria, And Benjamin will possess Gilead." 
Obadiah1:20 And the exiles of this military force of the sons of Israel, Who are among the Canaanites as far as Zarephath, And the exiles of Jerusalem who are in Sepharad, Will possess the cities of the Negev." 
Obadiah1:21 And the saviors will ascend Mount Zion To judge the mountain of Esau, And the kingdom will belong to Yahweh." 
Jonah1:1 Now the word of Yahweh came to Jonah the son of Amittai saying," 
Jonah1:2 “Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come up before Me.”" 
Jonah1:3 Yet Jonah arose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of Yahweh. So he went down to Joppa, found a ship which was going to Tarshish, and paid its fare and went down into it to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of Yahweh." 
Jonah1:4 But Yahweh hurled a great wind on the sea, and there was a great storm on the sea so that the ship gave thought to breaking apart." 
Jonah1:5 Then the sailors became fearful, and every man cried to his god, and they hurled the cargo which was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down below into the innermost part of the vessel, lain down, and fallen deep asleep." 
Jonah1:6 So the captain came near to him and said to him, “How is it that you are deeply sleeping? Arise, call on your god. Perhaps your god will be concerned about us so that we will not perish.”" 
Jonah1:7 Then each man said to the other, “Come, let us have the lots fall so we may know on whose account this calamitous evil has struck us.” So they had the lots fall, and the lot fell on Jonah." 
Jonah1:8 Then they said to him, “Tell us, now! On whose account has this calamitous evil struck us? What is your occupation? And where do you come from? What is your country? From what people are you?”" 
Jonah1:9 And he said to them, “I am a Hebrew, and I fear Yahweh, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land.”" 
Jonah1:10 Then the men became greatly fearful, and they said to him, “What is this you have done?” For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of Yahweh because he had told them." 
Jonah1:11 So they said to him, “What should we do to you that the sea may become quiet for us?”—for the sea was becoming increasingly stormy." 
Jonah1:12 So he said to them, “Lift me up and hurl me into the sea. Then the sea will become quiet for you, for I know that on account of me this great storm has come upon you.”" 
Jonah1:13 However, the men rowed desperately to return to dry land, but they could not, for the sea was becoming increasingly stormy against them." 
Jonah1:14 Then they called on Yahweh and said, “Ah! O Yahweh, we earnestly pray, do not let us perish on account of this man’s life, and do not put innocent blood on us; for You, O Yahweh, as You have pleased You have done.”" 
Jonah1:15 So they lifted Jonah up and hurled him into the sea, and the sea stood still from its raging." 
Jonah1:16 Then the men greatly feared Yahweh, and they offered a sacrifice to Yahweh and made vows." 
Jonah1:17 And Yahweh appointed a great fish to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the stomach of the fish three days and three nights." 
Jonah2:1 Then Jonah prayed to Yahweh his God from the stomach of the fish," 
Jonah2:2 and he said, “I called out of my distress to Yahweh, And He answered me. I cried for help from the belly of Sheol; You heard my voice." 
Jonah2:3 For You had cast me into the deep, Into the heart of the seas, And the current surrounded me. All Your breakers and waves passed over me." 
Jonah2:4 So I said, ‘I have been driven away from Your sight. Nevertheless I will look again toward Your holy temple.’" 
Jonah2:5 Water encompassed me to my very soul. The great deep surrounded me, Weeds were wrapped around my head." 
Jonah2:6 I went down to the base of the mountains. The earth with its bars closed behind me forever, But You have brought up my life from the pit, O Yahweh my God." 
Jonah2:7 While my soul was fainting within me, I remembered Yahweh, And my prayer came to You, To Your holy temple." 
Jonah2:8 Those who regard worthless idols Forsake their lovingkindness," 
Jonah2:9 But as for me, I will sacrifice to You With the voice of thanksgiving. That which I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs to Yahweh.”" 
Jonah2:10 Then Yahweh spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah up onto the dry land." 
Jonah3:1 Now the word of Yahweh came to Jonah the second time, saying," 
Jonah3:2 “Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city, and call out to it this very call which I am going to speak to you.”" 
Jonah3:3 So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of Yahweh. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, a three days’ walk." 
Jonah3:4 Then Jonah began to go into the city, one day’s walk; and he called out and said, “Yet forty days and Nineveh will be overthrown.”" 
Jonah3:5 And the people of Nineveh believed in God; and they called a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest to the least of them." 
Jonah3:6 Then the word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, laid aside his mantle from him, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat on the ashes." 
Jonah3:7 And he cried out and said, “In Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles: Do not let man, animal, herd, or flock taste a thing. Do not let them eat, and do not let them drink water." 
Jonah3:8 But both man and animal must be covered with sackcloth; and let men call on God with their strength that each may turn from his evil way and from the violence which is in his hands. 
Jonah3:9 Who knows, God may turn and relent and turn away from His burning anger so that we will not perish.”" 
Jonah3:10 Then God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way, so God relented concerning the evil which He had spoken He would bring upon them. And He did not bring it upon them." 
Jonah4:1 But this was a great evil to Jonah, and he became angry." 
Jonah4:2 And he prayed to Yahweh and said, “Ah! O Yahweh, was not this my word to myself while I was still in my own land? Therefore I went ahead to flee to Tarshish, for I knew that You are a gracious and compassionate God, slow to anger and abundant in lovingkindness, and one who relents concerning evil." 
Jonah4:3 So now, O Yahweh, please take my life from me, for death is better to me than life.”" 
Jonah4:4 And Yahweh said, “Do you have good reason to be angry?”" 
Jonah4:5 Then Jonah went out from the city and sat east of the city. And there he made a booth for himself and sat under it in the shade until he could see what would happen in the city. 
Jonah4:6 So Yahweh God appointed a plant, and it came up over Jonah to be a shade over his head to deliver him from his miserable evil. And Jonah was extremely glad about the plant." 
Jonah4:7 But God appointed a worm at the breaking of dawn the next day, and it struck the plant, and it dried up." 
Jonah4:8 Then it happened that as the sun rose up, God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun struck down on Jonah’s head so that he became faint and asked with all his soul to die and said, “Death is better to me than life.”" 
Jonah4:9 Then God said to Jonah, “Do you have good reason to be angry about the plant?” And he said, “I have good reason to be angry, even to death.”" 
Jonah4:10 Then Yahweh said, “You had pity on the plant for which you did not work and which you did not cause to grow, which came to be overnight and perished overnight." 
Jonah4:11 So should I not have pity on Nineveh, the great city, in which there are more than 120,000 persons who do not know the difference between their right and left hand, as well as many animals?”" 
Micah1:1 The word of Yahweh which came to Micah of Moresheth in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he beheld concerning Samaria and Jerusalem." 
Micah1:2 Hear, O peoples, all of you; Give heed, O earth, as well as its fullness, And let Lord Yahweh be a witness against you, The Lord from His holy temple." 
Micah1:3 For behold, Yahweh is going forth from His place. He will come down and tread on the high places of the earth." 
Micah1:4 The mountains will melt under Him, And the valleys will be split, Like wax before the fire, Like water poured down a steep place." 
Micah1:5 All this is for the transgression of Jacob And for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? What is the high place of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem? 
Micah1:6 So I will make Samaria a heap of ruins in the field, Planting places for a vineyard. And I will pour her stones down into the valley And will lay bare her foundations." 
Micah1:7 And all of her graven images will be smashed, And all of her earnings will be burned with fire And all of her idols I will make desolate, For she collected them from a harlot’s earnings, And to the earnings of a harlot they will return." 
Micah1:8 Because of this I must lament and wail; I must go barefoot and naked; I must make a lament like the jackals And a mourning like the ostriches. 
Micah1:9 For her wound is incurable, For it has come to Judah; It has reached the gate of my people, Even to Jerusalem." 
Micah1:10 Tell it not in Gath, Weep not at all. At Beth‑le‑aphrah roll yourself in the dust." 
Micah1:11 Pass on by, inhabitant of Shaphir, in shameful nakedness. The inhabitant of Zaanan does not go out. The lamentation of Beth‑ezel: “He will take from you its support.”" 
Micah1:12 For the inhabitant of Maroth Writhes in waiting for good Because a calamity has come down from Yahweh To the gate of Jerusalem. 
Micah1:13 Harness the chariot to the team of horses, O inhabitant of Lachish— She was the beginning of sin To the daughter of Zion— Because in you were found The transgressions of Israel." 
Micah1:14 Therefore you will give parting gifts On behalf of Moresheth‑gath; The houses of Achzib will become a deception To the kings of Israel. 
Micah1:15 Moreover, I will bring on you The one who takes possession, O inhabitant of Mareshah. The glory of Israel will enter Adullam." 
Micah1:16 Make yourself bald and cut off your hair, Because of the children of your delight; Extend your baldness like the eagle, For they will go from you into exile." 
Micah2:1 Woe to those who devise wickedness, Who work out evil on their beds! When the light of the morning comes, they do it, For it is in the power of their hands." 
Micah2:2 And they covet fields and then tear them away, And houses, and take them away. And they oppress a man and his house, A man and his inheritance." 
Micah2:3 Therefore thus says Yahweh, “Behold, I am devising against this family an evil demise From which you cannot remove your necks; And you will not walk haughtily, For it will be an evil time." 
Micah2:4 On that day they will take up against you a taunt And utter a bitter wailing and say, ‘We are completely devastated! He exchanges the portion of my people; How He removes it from me! To the faithless one, He apportions our fields.’" 
Micah2:5 Therefore you will have no one stretching a measuring line For you by lot in the assembly of Yahweh. 
Micah2:6 ‘Do not speak, dripping out words,’ they say while dripping out words. But if they do not drip out words concerning these things, Dishonor will not be turned back." 
Micah2:7 Is it being said, O house of Jacob: ‘Is the Spirit of Yahweh impatient? Are these His deeds?’ Do not My words do good To the one walking uprightly?" 
Micah2:8 And recently My people have arisen as an enemy— You strip the robe off the garment From unsuspecting passers‑by, From those returned from war." 
Micah2:9 The women of My people you drive out, Each one from her pleasant house. From her infants you take My splendor forever." 
Micah2:10 Arise and go, For this is no place of rest Because of the uncleanness that wreaks destruction, A painful destruction." 
Micah2:11 If a man walking after wind and lying Had acted falsely and said, ‘I will speak, dripping out words to you concerning wine and liquor,’ He would be one who drips out words as a spokesman to this people." 
Micah2:12 “I will surely assemble all of you, Jacob; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel. I will put them together like sheep in the fold; Like a flock in the midst of its pasture They will be noisy with men." 
Micah2:13 The breaker goes up before them; They break out, pass through the gate, and go out by it. So their king goes on before them, And Yahweh at their head.”" 
Micah3:1 And I said, “Hear now, heads of Jacob And rulers of the house of Israel. Is it not for you to know justice?" 
Micah3:2 You who hate good and love evil, Who tear off their skin from them And their flesh from their bones," 
Micah3:3 And who eat the flesh of my people, Strip off their skin from them, Break their bones, And spread them out as for the pot And as meat in a caldron.”" 
Micah3:4 Then they will cry out to Yahweh, But He will not answer them. Instead, He will hide His face from them at that time Because they have practiced evil deeds." 
Micah3:5 Thus says Yahweh concerning the prophets who lead my people astray; When they have something to bite with their teeth, They call out, “Peace,” But against him who puts nothing in their mouths, They set themselves apart for war." 
Micah3:6 Therefore it will be night for you—without vision, And darkness for you—without divination. The sun will go down on the prophets, And the day will grow black over them." 
Micah3:7 The seers will be ashamed, And the diviners will be humiliated. Indeed, they will all cover their mouths Because there is no answer from God." 
Micah3:8 On the other hand I am filled with power— With the Spirit of Yahweh— And with justice and might To declare to Jacob his transgression, Even to Israel his sin." 
Micah3:9 Now hear this, heads of the house of Jacob And rulers of the house of Israel, Who abhor justice And twist everything that is straight," 
Micah3:10 Who build Zion with bloodshed And Jerusalem with violent injustice. 
Micah3:11 Her heads pronounce judgment for a bribe, And her priests instruct for a price, And her prophets divine for money. Yet they lean on Yahweh saying, “Is not Yahweh in our midst? Evil will not come upon us.”" 
Micah3:12 Therefore, on account of you Zion will be plowed as a field; Jerusalem will become a heap of ruins, And the mountain of the house of God will become high places of a forest." 
Micah4:1 Now it will be that in the last days The mountain of the house of Yahweh Will be established as the head of the mountains, And will be lifted up above the hills, And the peoples will stream to it." 
Micah4:2 And many nations will come and say, “Come and let us go up to the mountain of Yahweh And to the house of the God of Jacob, That He may instruct us from His ways And that we may walk in His paths.” For from Zion will go forth the law, And the word of Yahweh from Jerusalem." 
Micah4:3 And He will judge between many peoples And will render decisions for mighty, distant nations. And they will hammer their swords into plowshares And their spears into pruning hooks; Nation will not lift up sword against nation, And never again will they learn war." 
Micah4:4 And each of them will sit under his vine And under his fig tree, With no one to make them tremble, For the mouth of Yahweh of hosts has spoken." 
Micah4:5 Though all the peoples walk Each in the name of his god, As for us, we will walk In the name of Yahweh our God forever and ever." 
Micah4:6 “In that day,” declares Yahweh, “I will assemble the lame And gather the banished, Even those upon whom I have brought calamity." 
Micah4:7 I will make the lame a remnant And the outcasts a mighty nation, And Yahweh will reign over them in Mount Zion From now on and forever." 
Micah4:8 And as for you, tower of the flock, Hill of the daughter of Zion, To you it will come— Even the former dominion will come, The kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem." 
Micah4:9 “Now, why do you make a loud shout? Is there no king among you, Or has your counselor perished, That writhing has taken hold of you like a woman in childbirth?" 
Micah4:10 Writhe and labor to give birth, Daughter of Zion, Like a woman in childbirth; For now you will go out of the city, Dwell in the field, And go to Babylon. There you will be delivered; There Yahweh will redeem you From the hand of your enemies." 
Micah4:11 But now many nations have been assembled against you Who say, ‘Let her be polluted, And let our eyes behold Zion in triumph.’" 
Micah4:12 But they do not know the thoughts of Yahweh, And they do not understand His counsel; For He has gathered them like sheaves to the threshing floor." 
Micah4:13 Arise and thresh, daughter of Zion, For your horn I will make iron, And your hoofs I will make bronze, That you may pulverize many peoples, That you may devote to Yahweh their greedy gain unto destruction And their wealth to the Lord of all the earth." 
Micah5:1 “Now muster yourselves in troops, daughter of troops; They have laid siege against us; With a rod they will strike the judge of Israel on the cheek." 
Micah5:2 But as for you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, Too little to be among the clans of Judah, From you One will go forth for Me to be ruler in Israel. His goings forth are from everlasting, From the ancient days.”" 
Micah5:3 Therefore He will give them up until the time When she who is in childbirth has borne a child. Then the remainder of His brothers Will return to the sons of Israel. 
Micah5:4 And He will stand and shepherd His flock In the strength of Yahweh, In the majesty of the name of Yahweh His God. And they will remain Because at that time He will be great To the ends of the earth." 
Micah5:5 And this One will be peace. When the Assyrian enters our land, When he treads on our citadels, Then we will raise against him Seven shepherds and eight princes of men." 
Micah5:6 And they will shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword, The land of Nimrod at its entrances; And He will deliver us from the Assyrian When he enters our land And when he treads within our borders." 
Micah5:7 Then the remnant of Jacob Will be among many peoples Like dew from Yahweh, Like showers on vegetation Which do not hope for man Or wait for the sons of men." 
Micah5:8 Then the remnant of Jacob Will be among the nations, Among many peoples Like a lion among the beasts of the forest, Like a young lion among flocks of sheep, Which, if it passes through, Tramples down and tears, And there is none to deliver." 
Micah5:9 Your hand will be raised up against your adversaries, And all your enemies will be cut off." 
Micah5:10 “And it will be in that day,” declares Yahweh, “That I will cut off your horses from among you And destroy your chariots." 
Micah5:11 And I will cut off the cities of your land And pull down all your fortifications. 
Micah5:12 And I will cut off sorceries from your hand, And you will have soothsaying no more." 
Micah5:13 And I will cut off your graven images And your sacred pillars from among you So that you will no longer worship The work of your hands. 
Micah5:14 And I will uproot your Asherim from among you And eradicate your cities. 
Micah5:15 And I will execute vengeance in anger and wrath On the nations which have not listened.” 
Micah6:1 Listen now to what Yahweh is saying, “Arise, plead your case before the mountains, And let the hills listen to your voice." 
Micah6:2 Listen, you mountains, to the case of Yahweh, And you enduring foundations of the earth, Because Yahweh has a case against His people; Even with Israel He will reprove." 
Micah6:3 My people, what have I done to you, And how have I wearied you? Answer Me." 
Micah6:4 Indeed, I brought you up from the land of Egypt And ransomed you from the house of slavery, And I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam." 
Micah6:5 My people, remember now What Balak king of Moab counseled And what Balaam son of Beor answered him, And from Shittim to Gilgal, So that you might know the righteous acts of Yahweh.”" 
Micah6:6 With what shall I come before Yahweh And bow myself before the God on high? Shall I come before Him with burnt offerings, With yearling calves?" 
Micah6:7 Is Yahweh pleased with thousands of rams, With ten thousand rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, The fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?" 
Micah6:8 He has told you, O man, what is good; And what does Yahweh require of you But to do justice, to love lovingkindness, And to walk humbly with your God?" 
Micah6:9 The voice of Yahweh will call to the city— And it is sound wisdom to fear Your name: “Hear, O tribe. Who even has appointed its time?" 
Micah6:10 Is there yet a man in the wicked house, Along with treasures of wickedness, And a short measure which is cursed?" 
Micah6:11 Can I purify wicked scales And a bag of deceptive weights? 
Micah6:12 For the rich men of the city are full of violence, And her inhabitants speak lies, And their tongue is deceitful in their mouth." 
Micah6:13 So also I will make you sick, striking you down, Desolating you because of your sins." 
Micah6:14 You will eat, but you will not be satisfied, And your vileness will be in your midst. And you will try to remove something for safekeeping, But you will not cause anything to escape, And that which you do have escape, I will give to the sword." 
Micah6:15 You will sow but you will not reap. You will tread the olive but will not anoint yourself with oil; And the grapes, but you will not drink wine." 
Micah6:16 The statutes of Omri And all the works of the house of Ahab are kept; And in their counsels you walk. Therefore I will give you up as an object of horror And your inhabitants as an object of hissing, And you will bear the reproach of My people.”" 
Micah7:1 Woe is me! For I am Like the fruit pickers, like the grape gatherers. There is not a cluster of grapes to eat, Or a first‑ripe fig which my soul desires." 
Micah7:2 The holy one has perished from the land, And there is no upright person among men. All of them lie in wait for bloodshed; Each of them hunts the other with a net." 
Micah7:3 Concerning evil, both hands do it well. The prince asks, also the judge, for a payment, And a great man speaks the craving of his soul; So they weave it together." 
Micah7:4 The best of them is like a briar, The most upright like a thorn hedge. The day when you post your watchmen, Your punishment will come. At that time their panic will happen." 
Micah7:5 Do not believe in a neighbor; Do not have confidence in a close companion. From her who lies in your bosom Guard the openings of your mouth. 
Micah7:6 For son treats father as a wicked fool; Daughter rises up against her mother, Daughter‑in‑law against her mother‑in‑law; A man’s enemies are the men of his own household." 
Micah7:7 But as for me, I will watch expectantly for Yahweh; I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me." 
Micah7:8 Do not be glad over me, O my enemy. Though I fall I will rise; Though I inhabit the darkness, Yahweh is a light for me." 
Micah7:9 I will bear the rage of Yahweh Because I have sinned against Him, Until He pleads my case and does justice for me. He will bring me out to the light, And I will see His righteousness." 
Micah7:10 Then my enemy will see, And shame will cover her who said to me, “Where is Yahweh your God?” My eyes will look on her; At that time she will be trampled down Like mire of the streets." 
Micah7:11 It will be a day for building your walls. On that day your boundary will be extended. 
Micah7:12 It will be a day when they will come to you From Assyria and the cities of Egypt, From Egypt even to the River, Even from sea to sea and mountain to mountain." 
Micah7:13 And the earth will become desolate because of her inhabitants, On account of the fruit of their deeds." 
Micah7:14 Shepherd Your people with Your scepter, The flock of Your inheritance Which dwells by itself in the forest, In the midst of a fruitful orchard. Let them feed in Bashan and Gilead As in the ancient days." 
Micah7:15 “As in the days when you came out from the land of Egypt, I will show you wondrous deeds.”" 
Micah7:16 Nations will see and be ashamed Of all their might. They will put their hand on their mouth; Their ears will be deaf. 
Micah7:17 They will lick the dust like a serpent, Like crawling things of the earth. They will come trembling out of their fortresses; To Yahweh our God they will come in dread, And they will be afraid before You." 
Micah7:18 Who is a God like You, who forgives iniquity And passes over the transgression of the remnant of His inheritance? He does not hold fast to His anger forever Because He delights in lovingkindness." 
Micah7:19 He will again have compassion on us; He will subdue our iniquities. And You will cast all their sins Into the depths of the sea. 
Micah7:20 You will give truth to Jacob And lovingkindness to Abraham, Which You swore to our fathers From the days of old." 
Nahum1:1 The oracle of Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite. 
Nahum1:2 A jealous and avenging God is Yahweh; Yahweh is avenging and wrathful. Yahweh is avenging against His adversaries, And He keeps His anger for His enemies." 
Nahum1:3 Yahweh is slow to anger and great in power, And Yahweh will by no means leave the guilty unpunished. In whirlwind and storm is His way, And clouds are the dust beneath His feet." 
Nahum1:4 He rebukes the sea and makes it dry; He dries up all the rivers. Bashan and Carmel languish; The blossoms of Lebanon languish. 
Nahum1:5 Mountains quake because of Him, And the hills melt; Indeed the earth is upheaved by His presence, The world and all the inhabitants in it." 
Nahum1:6 Who can stand before His indignation? Who can endure the burning of His anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, And the rocks are torn down by Him." 
Nahum1:7 Yahweh is good, A strong defense in the day of distress, And He knows those who take refuge in Him." 
Nahum1:8 But with an overflowing flood He will make a complete destruction of its place And will pursue His enemies into darkness. 
Nahum1:9 Whatever you devise against Yahweh, He will make a complete destruction of it. Distress will not rise up twice." 
Nahum1:10 Like tangled thorns, And like those who are drunken with their drink, They are consumed As stubble fully dried up." 
Nahum1:11 From you has gone forth One who devised evil against Yahweh, A vile counselor." 
Nahum1:12 Thus says Yahweh, “Though they are at full strength and likewise many, Even so, they will be cut off and pass away. Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no longer." 
Nahum1:13 So now, I will break his yoke bar from upon you, And I will break your bands apart.”" 
Nahum1:14 And Yahweh has commanded concerning you: “There will no longer be seed from your name. From the house of your gods, I will cut off graven image and molten image. I will prepare your grave, For you are contemptible.”" 
Nahum1:15 Behold, on the mountains the feet of him who proclaims good news, Who announces peace! Celebrate your feasts, O Judah; Pay your vows. For never again will the vile one pass through you; He is cut off completely." 
Nahum2:1 The one who scatters has come up against you. Guard the fortification, watch the road; Strengthen your loins, instill your power with exceeding courage." 
Nahum2:2 For Yahweh will restore the majesty of Jacob Like the majesty of Israel, Even though those who empty them have emptied them to destruction And ruined their vine branches." 
Nahum2:3 The shields of his mighty men are colored red, The valiant men are dressed in scarlet, The chariots are enveloped in flashing steel When he is set up to march, And the cypress spears are brandished." 
Nahum2:4 The chariots race madly in the streets; They rush wildly in the squares; Their appearance is like torches; They dash to and fro like lightning flashes. 
Nahum2:5 He remembers his mighty ones; They stumble in their march; They hurry to her wall, And the mantelet is set up." 
Nahum2:6 The gates of the rivers are opened, And the palace is melted away." 
Nahum2:7 So it stands fixed: She is exiled, she is carried away, And her maidservants are moaning like the sound of doves, Beating on their hearts." 
Nahum2:8 Though Nineveh was like a pool of water throughout her days, Now they are fleeing; “Stand! Stand!” But no one turns back." 
Nahum2:9 Plunder the silver! Plunder the gold! And there is no limit to the treasure— Wealth from every kind of desirable object. 
Nahum2:10 She is emptied! Yes, she is emptied out and eviscerated! Hearts are melting and knees knocking! Also anguish is in all their loins, And all their faces turn pale!" 
Nahum2:11 Where is the den of the lions And the feeding place of the young lions, Where the lion, lioness, and lion’s cub prowled, With nothing to make them tremble?" 
Nahum2:12 The lion tore enough for its cubs And strangled enough for its lionesses And filled its lairs with torn up prey And its dens with torn up flesh. 
Nahum2:13 “Behold, I am against you,” declares Yahweh of hosts. “And I will burn up her chariots in smoke, and a sword will devour your young lions; and I will cut off your prey from the land, and no longer will the voice of your messengers be heard.”" 
Nahum3:1 Woe to the city of bloodshed, completely full of deception and pillage; Her prey never departs." 
Nahum3:2 The sound of the whip, And the sound of the rumbling of the wheel, Galloping horses, And bounding chariots!" 
Nahum3:3 Horsemen charging, And swords flaming, and spears flashing, Many slain, a mass of corpses, And there is no end to dead bodies— They stumble over the dead bodies!" 
Nahum3:4 All because of the many harlotries of the harlot, The charming one, the mistress of sorceries, Who sells nations by her harlotries And families by her sorceries." 
Nahum3:5 “Behold, I am against you,” declares Yahweh of hosts; “And I will uncover your skirts over your face And show to the nations your nakedness And to the kingdoms your disgrace." 
Nahum3:6 I will throw detestable filth on you And display you as a wicked fool And set you up as a spectacle. 
Nahum3:7 And it will be that all who see you Will flee from you and say, ‘Nineveh is devastated! Who will console her?’ Where will I seek comforters for you?”" 
Nahum3:8 Are you better than No‑amon, Which sits along the waters of the Nile, With water surrounding her, Whose rampart was the sea, Whose wall consisted of the sea?" 
Nahum3:9 Ethiopia was her might, And Egypt too, without end. Put and Lubim were among her helpers." 
Nahum3:10 Yet she became an exile; She went into captivity; Also her infants were dashed to pieces At the head of every street; They cast lots for her honorable men, And all her great men were bound with fetters." 
Nahum3:11 You too will become drunk; You will be hidden. You too will search for a strong defense from the enemy. 
Nahum3:12 All your fortifications are fig trees with ripe fruit— When shaken, they fall into the eater’s mouth." 
Nahum3:13 Behold, your people are women in your midst! The gates of your land are opened wide to your enemies; Fire consumes your gate bars." 
Nahum3:14 Draw for yourself water for the siege! Strengthen your fortifications! Go into the clay and tread the mortar! Take hold of the brick mold! 
Nahum3:15 There, fire will consume you; The sword will cut you down; It will consume you as the locust does. Multiply yourself like the creeping locust, Multiply yourself like the swarming locust." 
Nahum3:16 You have increased your traders more than the stars of heaven— The creeping locust strips and flies away. 
Nahum3:17 Your guardsmen are like the swarming locust. Your marshals are like a locust‑swarm Encamping in the stone walls on a cold day. The sun rises, and they flee, And the place where they are is not known." 
Nahum3:18 Your shepherds are sleeping, O king of Assyria; Your mighty ones are lying down. Your people are scattered on the mountains, And there is no one to regather them." 
Nahum3:19 There is no relief for your breakdown, Your wound is incurable. All who hear the report about you Will clap their hands over you, For on whom has not your evil passed continually?" 
Habakkuk1:1 The oracle which Habakkuk the prophet beheld. 
Habakkuk1:2 How long, O Yahweh, will I call for help, And You will not hear? I cry out to You, “Violence!” Yet You do not save." 
Habakkuk1:3 Why do You make me see wickedness And cause me to look on trouble? Indeed, devastation and violence are before me; And there is strife, and contention is lifted up." 
Habakkuk1:4 Therefore the law is ignored, And justice never comes forth. For the wicked surround the righteous; Therefore justice comes forth perverted." 
Habakkuk1:5 “See among the nations! And look! Be also astonished! Be astounded! Because I am doing something in your days— You would not believe if it was recounted to you. 
Habakkuk1:6 For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, That bitter and hasty nation Who walks on the breadth of the land To possess dwelling places which are not theirs." 
Habakkuk1:7 They are dreaded and feared; Their justice and exaltation come forth from themselves. 
Habakkuk1:8 Their horses are swifter than leopards And sharper than wolves in the evening. Their horsemen come galloping; Their horsemen come from afar; They fly like an eagle swooping down to devour. 
Habakkuk1:9 All of them come for violence. Their horde of faces moves forward. And they gather captives like sand. 
Habakkuk1:10 And they mock at kings, And rulers are a laughing matter to them. They laugh at every fortress And heap up dirt and capture it." 
Habakkuk1:11 Then they will sweep through like the wind and pass on. But they will be held guilty, They whose power is their god.”" 
Habakkuk1:12 Are You not from everlasting, O Yahweh, my God, my Holy One? We will not die. You, O Yahweh, have placed them to judge; And You, O Rock, have established them to reprove." 
Habakkuk1:13 Your eyes are too pure to see evil, And You cannot look on trouble. Why do You look On those who deal treacherously? Why are You silent when the wicked swallow up Those more righteous than they?" 
Habakkuk1:14 And You have made men like the fish of the sea, Like creeping things without a ruler over them." 
Habakkuk1:15 The Chaldeans bring all of them up with a hook, Drag them away with their net, And gather them together in their fishing net. Therefore they are glad and rejoice." 
Habakkuk1:16 Therefore they offer a sacrifice to their net And burn incense to their fishing net Because through these things their portion is rich And their food is fat. 
Habakkuk1:17 Will they therefore empty their net And continually kill nations without sparing? 
Habakkuk2:1 I will stand on my guard post And station myself on the fortification; And I will keep watch to see what He will speak to me And how I may respond when I am reproved. 
Habakkuk2:2 Then Yahweh answered me and said, “Write down the vision And write it on tablets distinctly, That the one who reads it may run." 
Habakkuk2:3 For the vision is yet for the appointed time; It pants toward its end, and it will not lie. Though it tarries, wait for it; For it will certainly come; it will not delay." 
Habakkuk2:4 “Behold, as for the proud one, His soul is not right within him; But the righteous will live by his faith." 
Habakkuk2:5 And indeed, wine betrays the haughty man So that he does not stay at home. He enlarges his appetite like Sheol, And he is like death, never satisfied. He also gathers to himself all nations And assembles to himself all peoples." 
Habakkuk2:6 “Will not all of these lift up a taunt‑song against him, Even satire and riddles against him And say, ‘Woe to him who increases what is not his— For how long— And makes himself rich with loans?’" 
Habakkuk2:7 Will not your creditors rise up suddenly, And those who make you tremble awaken? Indeed, you will become spoil for them." 
Habakkuk2:8 Because you have taken many nations as spoil, All that is left of the peoples will take you as spoil— Because of human bloodshed and violence done to the land, To the town and all its inhabitants." 
Habakkuk2:9 “Woe to him who is greedy for evil gain for his house To put his nest on high, To be delivered from the hand of evil!" 
Habakkuk2:10 You have counseled a shameful thing for your house By cutting off many peoples; So you are sinning against your own soul. 
Habakkuk2:11 Surely the stone will cry out from the wall, And the rafter will answer it from the framework." 
Habakkuk2:12 “Woe to him who builds a city with bloodshed And founds a town with injustice! 
Habakkuk2:13 Is it not, behold, from Yahweh of hosts That peoples toil for fire, And nations grow weary for nothing?" 
Habakkuk2:14 For the earth will be filled With the knowledge of the glory of Yahweh, As the waters cover the sea." 
Habakkuk2:15 “Woe to you who make your neighbors drink, Who mix in your venom even to make them drunk So as to look on their nakedness!" 
Habakkuk2:16 You will be filled with disgrace rather than glory. Now you yourself drink and expose your own nakedness. The cup in Yahweh’s right hand will come around to you, And utter disgrace will come upon your glory." 
Habakkuk2:17 For the violence done to Lebanon will cover you, And the devastation of its beasts by which you terrified them, Because of human bloodshed and violence done to the land, To the town and all its inhabitants." 
Habakkuk2:18 “What profit is the graven image when its maker has engraved it, Or a molten image, a teacher of lies? For its maker trusts in his own making When he fashions speechless idols." 
Habakkuk2:19 Woe to him who says to a piece of wood, ‘Awake!’ To a mute stone, ‘Arise!’ And that is your teacher? Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, And there is no breath at all inside it." 
Habakkuk2:20 But Yahweh is in His holy temple. Let all the earth be silent before Him.” 
Habakkuk3:1 A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet, according to Shigionoth." 
Habakkuk3:2 O Yahweh, I have heard the report about You, and I fear. O Yahweh, revive Your work in the midst of the years; In the midst of the years make it known; In rage remember compassion." 
Habakkuk3:3 God comes from Teman, And the Holy One from Mount Paran. Selah. His splendor covers the heavens, And the earth is full of His praise." 
Habakkuk3:4 His brightness is like the sunlight; He has rays flashing from His hand, And there is the hiding of His strength." 
Habakkuk3:5 Before Him goes pestilence, And plague comes after Him." 
Habakkuk3:6 He stood and measured out the earth; He looked and startled the nations. So the perpetual mountains were shattered; The ancient hills collapsed. His ways are everlasting. 
Habakkuk3:7 I saw the tents of Cushan under wickedness; The tent curtains of the land of Midian were trembling. 
Habakkuk3:8 Did Yahweh’s fury burn against the rivers, Or was Your anger against the rivers, Or was Your wrath against the sea, That You rode on Your horses, On Your chariots of salvation?" 
Habakkuk3:9 Your bow was made bare; Rods were sworn unto battle by word. Selah. You split the earth with rivers. 
Habakkuk3:10 The mountains saw You and writhed; The downpour of waters passed by. The deep gave forth its voice; It lifted high its hands. 
Habakkuk3:11 Sun and moon stood in their lofty places; They went away at the light of Your arrows, At the brightness of Your flashing spear." 
Habakkuk3:12 In indignation You marched through the earth; In anger You trampled the nations. 
Habakkuk3:13 You went forth for the salvation of Your people, For salvation with Your anointed. You crushed the head of the house of the wicked To lay him bare from thigh to neck. Selah." 
Habakkuk3:14 You pierced with his own sharpened rods The head of his throngs. They stormed in to scatter us; Their exultation was like those Who devour the afflicted in secret. 
Habakkuk3:15 You tread on the sea with Your horses, On the surge of many waters." 
Habakkuk3:16 I heard, and my inward parts trembled; At the sound my lips tingled. Decay enters my bones, And in my place I tremble. Because I must wait quietly for the day of distress, For the people to arise who will invade us." 
Habakkuk3:17 Though the fig tree should not blossom And there be no produce on the vines, Though the yield of the olive should fail And the fields yield no food, Though the flock should be cut off from the fold And there be no cattle in the stalls," 
Habakkuk3:18 Yet I will exult in Yahweh; I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. 
Habakkuk3:19 Yahweh, the Lord, is my strength, And He has set my feet like hinds’ feet And makes me tread on my high places. For the choir director, on my stringed instruments." 
Zephaniah1:1 The word of Yahweh which came to Zephaniah son of Cushi, son of Gedaliah, son of Amariah, son of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah son of Amon, king of Judah:" 
Zephaniah1:2 “I will completely end all things From the face of the ground,” declares Yahweh." 
Zephaniah1:3 “I will end man and beast; I will end the birds of the sky And the fish of the sea And the ruins along with the wicked; And I will cut off man from the face of the ground,” declares Yahweh." 
Zephaniah1:4 “So I will stretch out My hand against Judah And against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And I will cut off the remnant of Baal from this place, And the names of the idolatrous priests along with the priests," 
Zephaniah1:5 And those who worship on the housetops the host of heaven, And those who worship and swear to Yahweh and yet swear by Milcom," 
Zephaniah1:6 And those who have turned back from following Yahweh, And those who have not sought Yahweh or inquired of Him.”" 
Zephaniah1:7 Be silent before Lord Yahweh! For the day of Yahweh is near, For Yahweh has prepared a sacrifice; He has set apart His guests." 
Zephaniah1:8 “Then it will be on the day of Yahweh’s sacrifice That I will punish the princes, the king’s sons, And all who clothe themselves with foreign garments." 
Zephaniah1:9 And I will punish on that day all who leap on the temple threshold, Who fill the house of their Lord with violence and deceit." 
Zephaniah1:10 And it will be in that day,” declares Yahweh, “That there will be the sound of a cry from the Fish Gate And a wail from the Second Quarter And a great destruction from the hills." 
Zephaniah1:11 Wail, O inhabitants of the Mortar, For all the people of Canaan will be silenced; All who weigh out silver will be cut off." 
Zephaniah1:12 And it will be at that time That I will search Jerusalem with lamps, And I will punish the men Who are stagnant in spirit, Who say in their hearts, ‘Yahweh will not do good or evil!’" 
Zephaniah1:13 And it will be that their wealth will become spoil And their houses desolate; Indeed, they will build houses but not inhabit them, And plant vineyards but not drink their wine.”" 
Zephaniah1:14 Near is the great day of Yahweh, Near and coming very quickly; O the sound, the day of Yahweh! In it the mighty man cries out bitterly." 
Zephaniah1:15 A day of fury is that day, A day of trouble and distress, A day of destruction and desolation, A day of darkness and thick darkness, A day of clouds and dense gloom," 
Zephaniah1:16 A day of trumpet and loud shouting Against the fortified cities And the high corner towers. 
Zephaniah1:17 I will bring distress on men So that they will walk like the blind Because they have sinned against Yahweh; And their blood will be poured out like dust And their flesh like dung. 
Zephaniah1:18 Neither their silver nor their gold Will be able to deliver them On the day of the fury of Yahweh; And all the earth will be devoured In the fire of His jealousy, For He will make a complete destruction, Indeed a terrifying one, Of all the inhabitants of the earth." 
Zephaniah2:1 Gather yourselves together, indeed, gather, O nation without shame," 
Zephaniah2:2 Before the decree takes effect— The day passes like the chaff— Before the burning anger of Yahweh comes upon you, Before the day of Yahweh’s anger comes upon you." 
Zephaniah2:3 Seek Yahweh, All you humble of the earth Who have worked His justice; Seek righteousness, seek humility. Perhaps you will be hidden In the day of Yahweh’s anger." 
Zephaniah2:4 For Gaza will be forsaken And Ashkelon a desolation; Ashdod will be driven out at noon, And Ekron will be uprooted." 
Zephaniah2:5 Woe to the inhabitants of the seacoast, The nation of the Cherethites! The word of Yahweh is against you, O Canaan, land of the Philistines; And I will make you perish So that there will be no inhabitant." 
Zephaniah2:6 So the seacoast will be pastures, With caves for shepherds and folds for flocks." 
Zephaniah2:7 And the coast will be For the remnant of the house of Judah; They will feed upon it. In the houses of Ashkelon they will lie down at evening; For Yahweh their God will care for them And restore their fortune. 
Zephaniah2:8 “I have heard the reproach of Moab And the revilings of the sons of Ammon, With which they have reproached My people And magnified themselves against their territory." 
Zephaniah2:9 Therefore, as I live,” declares Yahweh of hosts, The God of Israel, “Surely Moab will be like Sodom And the sons of Ammon like Gomorrah— A place possessed by nettles and salt pits, And a perpetual desolation. The remnant of My people will plunder them, And the remainder of My nation will inherit them.”" 
Zephaniah2:10 This they will have in return for their pride because they have reproached and magnified themselves against the people of Yahweh of hosts. 
Zephaniah2:11 Yahweh will be fearsome to them, for He will starve all the gods of the earth; and all the coastlands of the nations will bow down to Him, everyone from his own place." 
Zephaniah2:12 “You also, O Ethiopians, will be slain by My sword.”" 
Zephaniah2:13 And He will stretch out His hand against the north And cause Assyria to perish, And He will make Nineveh a desolation, Parched like the wilderness." 
Zephaniah2:14 Flocks will lie down in her midst, All the beasts of the nation; Both the pelican and the hedgehog Will lodge in the tops of her pillars; Their voice will sing in the window, Ruin will be on the threshold; For He has laid bare the cedar work." 
Zephaniah2:15 This is the exultant city Which inhabits securely, Who says in her heart, “I am, and there is no one besides me.” How she has become an object of horror, A resting place for beasts! Everyone who passes by her will hiss And wave his hand in contempt." 
Zephaniah3:1 Woe to her who is rebellious and defiled, The oppressive city!" 
Zephaniah3:2 She did not listen to any voice; She did not receive discipline. She did not trust in Yahweh; She did not draw near to her God. 
Zephaniah3:3 Her princes in her midst are roaring lions; Her judges are wolves at evening; They leave nothing to gnaw for the morning. 
Zephaniah3:4 Her prophets are reckless, treacherous men; Her priests have profaned the sanctuary. They have done violence to the law." 
Zephaniah3:5 Yahweh is righteous in her midst; He will do no injustice. Every morning He brings His justice to light; He does not fail. But the unjust knows no shame. 
Zephaniah3:6 “I have cut off nations; Their corner towers are desolate. I have made their streets a waste, With no one passing by; Their cities are laid waste, Without a man, without an inhabitant." 
Zephaniah3:7 I said, ‘Surely you will fear Me, Receive discipline.’ So her abode will not be cut off According to all that I have appointed concerning her. But they were eager to corrupt all their deeds." 
Zephaniah3:8 “Therefore wait for Me,” declares Yahweh, “For the day when I rise up as a witness. Indeed, My judgment is to assemble nations, To gather kingdoms, To pour out on them My indignation, All My burning anger; For all the earth will be devoured By the fire of My zeal." 
Zephaniah3:9 For then I will change them to peoples with purified lips, That all of them may call on the name of Yahweh, To serve Him shoulder to shoulder." 
Zephaniah3:10 From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia My worshipers, My scattered ones, Will bring My offerings." 
Zephaniah3:11 In that day you will feel no shame Because of all your deeds By which you have transgressed against Me; For then I will remove from your midst Your proud, exulting ones, And you will never again be haughty On My holy mountain." 
Zephaniah3:12 But I will cause to remain in your midst A lowly and poor people, And they will take refuge in the name of Yahweh." 
Zephaniah3:13 The remnant of Israel will do no injustice And not speak falsehood, Nor will a deceitful tongue Be found in their mouths; For they will feed and lie down With no one to make them tremble.”" 
Zephaniah3:14 Sing for joy, O daughter of Zion! Make a loud shout, O Israel! Be glad and exult with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem!" 
Zephaniah3:15 Yahweh has taken away His judgments against you; He has cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, Yahweh, is in your midst; You will fear evil no more." 
Zephaniah3:16 In that day it will be said to Jerusalem: “Do not fear, O Zion; Do not let your hands fall limp." 
Zephaniah3:17 Yahweh your God is in your midst, A mighty one who will save. He will be joyful over you with gladness; He will be quiet in His love; He will rejoice over you with joyful singing." 
Zephaniah3:18 I will assemble those who grieve about the appointed feasts— They were from you, O Zion; The reproach of exile is a burden on them." 
Zephaniah3:19 Behold, I am going to deal at that time With all those who afflict you, And I will save the lame And gather the banished, And I will turn them—in their shame—into praise and a name In all the earth." 
Zephaniah3:20 At that time I will bring you in, Even at the time when I gather you together; Indeed, I will give you to be a name and praise Among all the peoples of the earth, When I restore your fortunes before your eyes,” Says Yahweh." 
Haggai1:1 In the second year of Darius the king, on the first day of the sixth month, the word of Yahweh came by the hand of Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying," 
Haggai1:1 In the second year of Darius the king, on the first day of the sixth month, the word of Yahweh came by the hand of Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying," 
Haggai1:2 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘This people says, “The time has not come, even the time for the house of Yahweh to be rebuilt.”’”" 
Haggai1:3 Then the word of Yahweh came by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying," 
Haggai1:4 “Is it time for you yourselves to live in your paneled houses while this house lies waste?” 
Haggai1:5 So now, thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Set your heart to consider your ways!" 
Haggai1:6 You have sown much, but bring in little; you eat, but there is not enough to be satisfied; you drink, but there is not enough to become drunk; you put on clothing, but no one is warm enough; and he who earns, earns wages to put into a bag with holes.”" 
Haggai1:7 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Set your heart to consider your ways!" 
Haggai1:8 Go up to the mountains and bring wood and rebuild the house of God, that I may be pleased with it and be glorified,” says Yahweh." 
Haggai1:9 “You look for much, but behold, it comes to little; and you bring it home, and I blow it away. Why?” declares Yahweh of hosts, “Because of My house which lies waste, while each of you runs to his own house." 
Haggai1:10 Therefore, because of you the sky has restrained its dew and the earth has restrained its produce." 
Haggai1:11 And I called for a drought on the land, on the mountains, on the grain, on the new wine, on the oil, on what the ground brings forth, on men, on cattle, and on all the labor of your hands.”" 
Haggai1:12 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, listened to the voice of Yahweh their God and the words of Haggai the prophet, as Yahweh their God had sent him. And the people feared Yahweh." 
Haggai1:12 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, listened to the voice of Yahweh their God and the words of Haggai the prophet, as Yahweh their God had sent him. And the people feared Yahweh." 
Haggai1:13 Then Haggai, the messenger of Yahweh, spoke by the commissioned message of Yahweh to the people saying, “‘I am with you,’ declares Yahweh.”" 
Haggai1:14 So Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and did work on the house of Yahweh of hosts, their God," 
Haggai1:14 So Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and did work on the house of Yahweh of hosts, their God," 
Haggai1:15 on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month in the second year of Darius the king. 
Haggai2:1 On the twenty-first of the seventh month, the word of Yahweh came by the hand of Haggai the prophet saying," 
Haggai2:2 “Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people saying," 
Haggai2:2 “Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people saying," 
Haggai2:3 ‘Who among you remains who saw this house in its former glory? And how do you see it now? Does it not seem like nothing in your eyes? 
Haggai2:4 But now, be strong, Zerubbabel,’ declares Yahweh, ‘be strong also, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and all you people of the land, be strong,’ declares Yahweh, ‘and work; for I am with you,’ declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Haggai2:4 But now, be strong, Zerubbabel,’ declares Yahweh, ‘be strong also, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and all you people of the land, be strong,’ declares Yahweh, ‘and work; for I am with you,’ declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Haggai2:5 ‘As for the promise which I cut with you when you came out of Egypt, My Spirit is standing in your midst; do not fear!’" 
Haggai2:6 For thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘Once more—in a little while—I am going to shake the heavens and the earth, the sea also and the dry land." 
Haggai2:7 And I will shake all the nations; and they will come with the desirable things of all nations, and I will fill this house with glory,’ says Yahweh of hosts." 
Haggai2:8 ‘The silver is Mine, and the gold is Mine,’ declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Haggai2:9 ‘The latter glory of this house will be greater than the former,’ says Yahweh of hosts, ‘and in this place I will give peace,’ declares Yahweh of hosts.”" 
Haggai2:10 On the twenty-fourth of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of Yahweh came to Haggai the prophet, saying," 
Haggai2:11 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘Ask now the priests about the law:" 
Haggai2:12 If a man carries holy meat in the fold of his garment and touches bread with this fold or cooked food, wine, oil, or any other food, will it become holy?’” And the priests answered, “No.”" 
Haggai2:13 Then Haggai said, “If one who is unclean from a corpse touches any of these, will the latter become unclean?” And the priests answered, “It will become unclean.”" 
Haggai2:14 Then Haggai answered and said, “‘So is this people. And so is this nation before Me,’ declares Yahweh, ‘and so is every work of their hands; and what they bring near to Me there is unclean." 
Haggai2:15 But now, oh set your heart to consider from this day onward: from before one stone was set on another in the temple of Yahweh," 
Haggai2:16 from when it was that one came to a grain heap of twenty measures, then there would be only ten; and from when one came to the wine vat to draw fifty troughs full, then there would be only twenty." 
Haggai2:17 I struck you and every work of your hands with scorching wind, mildew, and hail; yet you did not come back to Me,’ declares Yahweh." 
Haggai2:18 ‘Oh set your heart to consider from this day onward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month; from the day when the temple of Yahweh was founded, set your heart to consider:" 
Haggai2:19 Is the seed still in the barn? Even including the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree, it has not borne fruit. Yet from this day on I will bless you.’”" 
Haggai2:20 Then the word of Yahweh came a second time to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying," 
Haggai2:21 “Speak to Zerubbabel governor of Judah, saying, ‘I am going to shake the heavens and the earth." 
Haggai2:22 I will overthrow the thrones of kingdoms and destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I will overthrow the chariots and their riders, and the horses and their riders will go down, everyone by the sword of another.’" 
Haggai2:23 ‘On that day,’ declares Yahweh of hosts, ‘I will take you, Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, My servant,’ declares Yahweh, ‘and I will make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you,’” declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Zechariah1:1 In the eighth month of the second year of Darius, the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah the prophet, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, saying," 
Zechariah1:2 “Yahweh was very wrathful against your fathers. 
Zechariah1:3 Therefore say to them, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Return to Me,” declares Yahweh of hosts, “that I may return to you,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Zechariah1:4 “Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets called out, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Return now from your evil ways and from your evil deeds.”’ But they did not listen or give heed to Me,” declares Yahweh." 
Zechariah1:5 “Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever?" 
Zechariah1:6 But did not My words and My statutes, which I commanded My slaves the prophets, overtake your fathers? Then they returned and said, ‘As Yahweh of hosts purposed to do to us in accordance with our ways and our deeds, so He has done with us.’”’”" 
Zechariah1:7 On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month Shebat, in the second year of Darius, the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah the prophet, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, saying," 
Zechariah1:8 I saw at night, and behold, a man was riding on a red horse, and he was standing among the myrtle trees which were in the ravine, with red, sorrel, and white horses behind him." 
Zechariah1:9 Then I said, “My lord, what are these?” And the angel who was speaking with me said to me, “I will show you what these are.”" 
Zechariah1:10 And the man who was standing among the myrtle trees answered and said, “These are those whom Yahweh has sent to patrol the earth.”" 
Zechariah1:11 So they answered the angel of Yahweh who was standing among the myrtle trees and said, “We have patrolled the earth, and behold, all the earth is sitting still and quiet.”" 
Zechariah1:12 Then the angel of Yahweh answered and said, “O Yahweh of hosts, how long will You have no compassion for Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, with which You have been indignant these seventy years?”" 
Zechariah1:13 Yahweh answered the angel who was speaking with me with good words, comforting words." 
Zechariah1:14 So the angel who was speaking with me said to me, “Call out, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “I am exceedingly jealous for Jerusalem and Zion." 
Zechariah1:15 But I am very wrathful with the nations who are at ease; for I was only a little wrathful, but they helped increase the calamity.”" 
Zechariah1:16 Therefore thus says Yahweh, “I will return to Jerusalem with compassion; My house will be built in it,” declares Yahweh of hosts, “and a measuring line will be stretched over Jerusalem.”’" 
Zechariah1:17 Again, call out, saying, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “My cities will again overflow with good, and Yahweh will again comfort Zion and again choose Jerusalem.”’”" 
Zechariah1:18 Then I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, there were four horns." 
Zechariah1:19 So I said to the angel who was speaking with me, “What are these?” And he said to me, “These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.”" 
Zechariah1:20 Then Yahweh showed me four craftsmen. 
Zechariah1:21 And I said, “What are these coming to do?” And he said, “These are the horns which have scattered Judah so that no man lifts up his head; but these craftsmen have come to cause them to tremble, to throw down the horns of the nations who have lifted up their horns against the land of Judah in order to scatter it.”" 
Zechariah2:1 Then I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, there was a man with a measuring cord in his hand." 
Zechariah2:2 So I said, “Where are you going?” And he said to me, “To measure Jerusalem, to see how wide it is and how long it is.”" 
Zechariah2:3 And behold, the angel who was speaking with me was going out, and another angel was coming out to meet him" 
Zechariah2:4 and said to him, “Run, speak to that young man, saying, ‘Jerusalem will be inhabited without walls because of the multitude of men and cattle within it." 
Zechariah2:5 Indeed I,’ declares Yahweh, ‘will be a wall of fire around her, and I will be the glory in her midst.’”" 
Zechariah2:6 “Ho there! Flee from the land of the north,” declares Yahweh, “for I have dispersed you as the four winds of the heavens,” declares Yahweh." 
Zechariah2:7 “Woe, Zion! Escape, you who are living with the daughter of Babylon.”" 
Zechariah2:8 For thus says Yahweh of hosts, “After glory He has sent Me against the nations which have taken you as spoil, for he who touches you, touches the apple of His eye." 
Zechariah2:9 For behold, I will wave My hand over them so that they will be spoil for their slaves. Then you will know that Yahweh of hosts has sent Me." 
Zechariah2:10 Sing for joy and be glad, O daughter of Zion; for behold, I am coming and I will dwell in your midst,” declares Yahweh." 
Zechariah2:11 “And many nations will join themselves to Yahweh in that day and will become My people. Then I will dwell in your midst, and you will know that Yahweh of hosts has sent Me to you." 
Zechariah2:12 Then Yahweh will inherit Judah as His portion in the holy land and will again choose Jerusalem. 
Zechariah2:13 “Be silent, all flesh, before Yahweh; for He is aroused from His holy habitation.”" 
Zechariah3:1 Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Yahweh, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him." 
Zechariah3:1 Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Yahweh, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him." 
Zechariah3:2 And Yahweh said to Satan, “Yahweh rebuke you, Satan! Indeed, Yahweh who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you! Is this not a brand delivered from the fire?”" 
Zechariah3:3 Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and standing before the angel. 
Zechariah3:3 Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and standing before the angel. 
Zechariah3:4 And he answered and spoke to those who were standing before him, saying, “Remove the filthy garments from him.” Again he said to him, “See, I have made your iniquity pass away from you and will clothe you with festal robes.”" 
Zechariah3:5 Then I said, “Let them put a clean turban on his head.” So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments, while the angel of Yahweh was standing by." 
Zechariah3:6 And the angel of Yahweh testified to Joshua, saying," 
Zechariah3:6 And the angel of Yahweh testified to Joshua, saying," 
Zechariah3:7 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘If you will walk in My ways and if you will keep the responsibility given by Me, then you will also render justice in My house and also keep My courts, and I will grant you access to walk among these who are standing here." 
Zechariah3:8 Now listen, Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who are sitting in front of you—indeed they are men who are a wondrous sign, for behold, I am going to bring in My servant the Branch." 
Zechariah3:8 Now listen, Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who are sitting in front of you—indeed they are men who are a wondrous sign, for behold, I am going to bring in My servant the Branch." 
Zechariah3:9 For behold, the stone that I have put before Joshua; on one stone are seven eyes. Behold, I will engrave an inscription on it,’ declares Yahweh of hosts, ‘and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day." 
Zechariah3:9 For behold, the stone that I have put before Joshua; on one stone are seven eyes. Behold, I will engrave an inscription on it,’ declares Yahweh of hosts, ‘and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day." 
Zechariah3:10 In that day,’ declares Yahweh of hosts, ‘every one of you will call for his neighbor to sit under his vine and under his fig tree.’”" 
Zechariah4:1 Then the angel who was speaking with me returned and roused me, as a man who is roused from his sleep." 
Zechariah4:2 And he said to me, “What do you see?” And I said, “I see, and behold, a lampstand all of gold with its bowl on the top of it, and its seven lamps on it with seven spouts belonging to each of the lamps which are on the top of it," 
Zechariah4:3 also two olive trees by it, one on the right side of the bowl and the other on its left side.”" 
Zechariah4:4 Then I answered and said to the angel who was speaking with me saying, “What are these, my lord?”" 
Zechariah4:5 So the angel who was speaking with me answered and said to me, “Do you not know what these are?” And I said, “No, my lord.”" 
Zechariah4:6 Then he answered and spoke to me, saying, “This is the word of Yahweh to Zerubbabel, saying, ‘Not by might nor by power, but by My Spirit,’ says Yahweh of hosts." 
Zechariah4:7 ‘What are you, O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel you will become a plain; and he will bring forth the top stone with shouts of “Grace, grace to it!”’”" 
Zechariah4:8 Also the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Zechariah4:9 “The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house, and his hands will finish it. Then you will know that Yahweh of hosts has sent me to you." 
Zechariah4:10 For who has despised the day of small things? But these seven will be glad when they see the plumb line in the hand of Zerubbabel—these are the eyes of Yahweh which roam to and fro throughout the earth.” 
Zechariah4:11 Then I answered and said to him, “What are these two olive trees on the right of the lampstand and on its left?”" 
Zechariah4:12 And I answered the second time and said to him, “What are the two olive branches which are beside the two golden pipes, which empty the golden oil from themselves?”" 
Zechariah4:13 So he spoke to me, saying, “Do you not know what these are?” And I said, “No, my lord.”" 
Zechariah4:14 Then he said, “These are the two anointed ones who are standing by the Lord of all the earth.”" 
Zechariah5:1 Then I lifted up my eyes again and saw, and behold, a flying scroll." 
Zechariah5:2 And he said to me, “What do you see?” And I said, “I see a flying scroll; its length is twenty cubits and its width ten cubits.”" 
Zechariah5:3 Then he said to me, “This is the curse that is going forth over the face of the whole land; surely everyone who steals will be purged away according to the writing on one side, and everyone who swears will be purged away according to the writing on the other side." 
Zechariah5:4 I will make it go forth,” declares Yahweh of hosts, “and it will enter the house of the thief and the house of the one who swears falsely by My name; and it will spend the night within that house and consume it with its timber and stones.”" 
Zechariah5:5 Then the angel who was speaking with me went out and said to me, “Lift up now your eyes and see what this is going forth.”" 
Zechariah5:6 So I said, “What is it?” And he said, “This is the ephah going forth.” Again he said, “This is their appearance in all the land" 
Zechariah5:7 (and behold, a lead cover was lifted up); and this is a woman sitting inside the ephah.”" 
Zechariah5:8 Then he said, “This is Wickedness!” And he threw her down into the middle of the ephah and threw the lead weight on its opening." 
Zechariah5:9 Then I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, two women were coming out with the wind in their wings; and they had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the ephah between the earth and the heavens." 
Zechariah5:10 And I said to the angel who was speaking with me, “Where are they taking the ephah?”" 
Zechariah5:11 Then he said to me, “To build a house for her in the land of Shinar; and when it is prepared, she will be set there on her own pedestal.”" 
Zechariah6:1 Then I lifted up my eyes again and saw, and behold, four chariots were coming forth from between the two mountains; and the mountains were bronze mountains." 
Zechariah6:2 With the first chariot were red horses, with the second chariot black horses," 
Zechariah6:3 with the third chariot white horses, and with the fourth chariot dappled horses—all of them mighty." 
Zechariah6:4 Then I answered and said to the angel who was speaking with me, “What are these, my lord?”" 
Zechariah6:5 And the angel answered and said to me, “These are the four spirits of heaven, going forth after standing before the Lord of all the earth," 
Zechariah6:6 with one of which the black horses are going forth to the north country; and the white ones go forth after them, and the dappled ones go forth to the south country." 
Zechariah6:7 Now the mighty ones went out, and they sought to go to patrol the earth.” And He said, “Go, patrol the earth.” So they patrolled the earth." 
Zechariah6:8 Then He cried out to me and spoke to me saying, “See, those who are going to the land of the north have caused My Spirit to have rest in the land of the north.”" 
Zechariah6:9 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Zechariah6:10 “Take an offering from the exiles, from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah; and you come the same day and come into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, where they have come from Babylon." 
Zechariah6:10 “Take an offering from the exiles, from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah; and you come the same day and come into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, where they have come from Babylon." 
Zechariah6:11 And take silver and gold, make an ornate crown, and set it on the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest." 
Zechariah6:11 And take silver and gold, make an ornate crown, and set it on the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest." 
Zechariah6:12 Then you will say to him, ‘Thus says Yahweh of hosts, “Behold, a man whose name is Branch, and He will branch out from where He is; and He will build the temple of Yahweh." 
Zechariah6:13 Indeed, it is He who will build the temple of Yahweh, and He who will bear the splendor and sit and rule on His throne. Thus, He will be a priest on His throne, and the counsel of peace will be between the two offices.”’" 
Zechariah6:14 Now the crown will become a memorial in the temple of Yahweh to Helem, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Hen the son of Zephaniah." 
Zechariah6:14 Now the crown will become a memorial in the temple of Yahweh to Helem, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Hen the son of Zephaniah." 
Zechariah6:15 And those who are far off will come and build the temple of Yahweh.” Then you will know that Yahweh of hosts has sent me to you. And it will happen if you utterly listen to the voice of Yahweh your God. 
Zechariah7:1 Now it happened that in the fourth year of King Darius, the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth month, which is Chislev." 
Zechariah7:2 And the town of Bethel sent Sharezer and Regemmelech and their men to entreat the favor of Yahweh," 
Zechariah7:3 speaking to the priests, who belong to the house of Yahweh of hosts, and to the prophets, saying, “Shall I weep in the fifth month and abstain, as I have done these many years?”" 
Zechariah7:4 Then the word of Yahweh of hosts came to me, saying," 
Zechariah7:5 “Speak to all the people of the land and to the priests, saying, ‘When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh months these seventy years, was it actually for Me that you fasted?" 
Zechariah7:6 And when you eat and when you drink, are you not eating for yourselves and are you not drinking for yourselves?" 
Zechariah7:7 Are not these the words which Yahweh called out by the hand of the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and at ease along with its cities around it, and the Negev and the Shephelah were inhabited?’”" 
Zechariah7:8 Then the word of Yahweh came to Zechariah saying," 
Zechariah7:9 “Thus has Yahweh of hosts said, ‘Judge with true justice and show lovingkindness and compassion each to his brother;" 
Zechariah7:10 and do not oppress the widow or the orphan, the sojourner or the afflicted; and do not devise evil in your hearts against one another.’" 
Zechariah7:11 But they refused to give heed and turned a stubborn shoulder and dulled their ears from hearing. 
Zechariah7:12 And they made their hearts diamond-hard so that they could not hear the law and the words which Yahweh of hosts had sent by His Spirit by the hand of the former prophets; therefore great wrath came from Yahweh of hosts. 
Zechariah7:13 And it happened that just as He called and they would not listen, so they called and I would not listen,” says Yahweh of hosts;" 
Zechariah7:14 “but I scattered them with a storm wind among all the nations whom they have not known. Thus the land is desolated behind them so that no one was passing through and returning, for they made the pleasant land desolate.”" 
Zechariah8:1 Then the word of Yahweh of hosts came, saying," 
Zechariah8:2 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘I am jealous with great jealousy for Zion, and with great wrath I am jealous for her.’" 
Zechariah8:3 Thus says Yahweh, ‘I will return to Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. Then Jerusalem will be called the City of Truth, and the mountain of Yahweh of hosts will be called the Holy Mountain.’" 
Zechariah8:4 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘Old men and old women will again sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each man with his staff in his hand because of age." 
Zechariah8:5 And the streets of the city will be filled with boys and girls playing in its streets.’ 
Zechariah8:6 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘If it is too difficult in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days, will it also be too difficult in My sight?’ declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Zechariah8:7 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘Behold, I am going to save My people from the land where the sun rises and from the land where the sun sets;" 
Zechariah8:8 and I will bring them back, and they will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem; and they shall be My people, and I will be their God in truth and righteousness.’" 
Zechariah8:9 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘Let your hands be strong, you who are listening in these days to these words from the mouth of the prophets, those who spoke in the day that the foundation of the house of Yahweh of hosts was laid, to the end that the temple might be built." 
Zechariah8:10 For before those days there was no wage for man or any wage for animal; and for him who went out or came in there was no peace because of the adversary, and I set all men one against another." 
Zechariah8:11 But now I will not treat the remnant of this people as in the former days,’ declares Yahweh of hosts." 
Zechariah8:12 ‘For there will be peace for the seed: the vine will yield its fruit, the land will yield its produce, and the heavens will give their dew; and I will cause the remnant of this people to inherit all these things." 
Zechariah8:13 And it will be that just as you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so I will save you that you may become a blessing. Do not fear; let your hands be strong.’" 
Zechariah8:14 “For thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘Just as I purposed to bring about evil to you when your fathers provoked Me to wrath,’ says Yahweh of hosts, ‘and I have not relented," 
Zechariah8:15 so I have again purposed in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Do not fear! 
Zechariah8:16 These are the things which you should do: speak the truth to one another; judge with truth and judgment for peace in your gates. 
Zechariah8:17 Also let none of you devise evil in your heart against another, and do not love false oaths; for all these are what I hate,’ declares Yahweh.”" 
Zechariah8:18 Then the word of Yahweh of hosts came to me, saying," 
Zechariah8:19 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘The fast of the fourth, the fast of the fifth, the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth months will become joy, gladness, and merry appointed feasts for the house of Judah; so love truth and peace.’" 
Zechariah8:20 “Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘It will yet be that peoples will come, even the inhabitants of many cities." 
Zechariah8:21 The inhabitants of one will go to another, saying, “Let us go at once to entreat the favor of Yahweh and to seek Yahweh of hosts; I will also go.”" 
Zechariah8:22 So many peoples and mighty nations will come to seek Yahweh of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of Yahweh.’ 
Zechariah8:23 Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘In those days ten men from every tongue of the nations will take hold of the garment of a Jew, saying, “Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.”’”" 
Zechariah9:1 The oracle of the word of Yahweh is against the land of Hadrach, with Damascus as its resting place (for the eyes of men, especially of all the tribes of Israel, are toward Yahweh)," 
Zechariah9:2 And Hamath also, which borders on it; And Tyre and Sidon, because they are very wise." 
Zechariah9:3 So Tyre built herself a tight fortification And tied up silver like dust And fine gold like the mire of the streets. 
Zechariah9:4 Behold, the Lord will dispossess her And strike her wealth down into the sea; And she will be consumed with fire." 
Zechariah9:5 Ashkelon will see it and be afraid. Gaza too will writhe in great pain; Also Ekron, for her hope has been put to shame. Moreover, the king will perish from Gaza, And Ashkelon will not be inhabited." 
Zechariah9:6 And those of illegitimate birth will inhabit Ashdod, And I will cut off the pride of the Philistines." 
Zechariah9:7 And I will remove their blood from their mouth And their detestable things from between their teeth. Then they also will be a remnant for our God, And be like a clan in Judah, And Ekron like a Jebusite." 
Zechariah9:8 But I will camp around My house because of an army, Because of him who passes by and returns; And no taskmaster will pass over them anymore, For now I have seen with My eyes." 
Zechariah9:9 Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion! Make a loud shout, O daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, your king is coming to you; He is righteous and endowed with salvation, Lowly and mounted on a donkey, Even on a colt, the foal of a pack animal." 
Zechariah9:10 I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim And the horse from Jerusalem; And the bow of war will be cut off. And He will speak peace to the nations; And His reign will be from sea to sea And from the River to the ends of the earth. 
Zechariah9:11 As for you also, because of the blood of your covenant, I have set your prisoners free from the waterless pit." 
Zechariah9:12 Return to the stronghold, O prisoners who have the hope; This very day I am declaring that I will return double to you." 
Zechariah9:13 For I will bend Judah as My bow; I will fill the bow with Ephraim. And I will rouse up your sons, O Zion, against your sons, O Greece; And I will make you like a mighty man’s sword." 
Zechariah9:14 Then Yahweh will appear over them, And His arrow will go forth like lightning; And Lord Yahweh will blow the trumpet And will go in the storm winds of the south." 
Zechariah9:15 Yahweh of hosts will defend them. And they will consume and trample on the stones of a sling; And they will drink and roar as with wine; And they will be filled like a sacrificial bowl, Drenched like the corners of the altar." 
Zechariah9:16 And Yahweh their God will save them in that day As the flock of His people; For they are as the stones of a crown, Sparkling in His land." 
Zechariah9:17 For what goodness and what beauty will be theirs! Grain will make the choice men flourish, and new wine the virgins." 
Zechariah10:1 Ask rain from Yahweh at the time of the late rain— Yahweh who makes the storm clouds; And He will give them showers of rain, the plant in the field to each man." 
Zechariah10:2 For the teraphim speak wickedness, And the diviners behold false visions And speak worthless dreams; They comfort in vain. Therefore the people journey like sheep; They are afflicted because there is no shepherd." 
Zechariah10:3 “My anger burns against the shepherds, And I will visit punishment upon the male goats; For Yahweh of hosts has visited His flock, the house of Judah, And will make them like His splendid horse in battle." 
Zechariah10:4 From them will come the cornerstone, From them the tent peg, From them the bow of battle, From them every good taskmaster, all of them together." 
Zechariah10:5 And they will be as mighty men, Treading down the enemy in the mire of the streets in battle; And they will battle, for Yahweh will be with them; And the riders on horses will be put to shame." 
Zechariah10:6 I will make the house of Judah mighty, And I will save the house of Joseph, And I will cause them to return, Because I have had compassion on them; And they will be as though I had not rejected them, For I am Yahweh their God, and I will answer them." 
Zechariah10:7 And Ephraim will be like a mighty man, And their heart will be glad as if from wine; Indeed, their children will see it and be glad; Their heart will rejoice in Yahweh." 
Zechariah10:8 I will whistle for them to gather them together, For I have redeemed them; And they will be as numerous as they were before." 
Zechariah10:9 And I will sow them among the peoples, And they will remember Me in far countries, And they with their children will live and turn back." 
Zechariah10:10 Then I will cause them to return from the land of Egypt And gather them from Assyria; And I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon Until no room can be found for them. 
Zechariah10:11 And they will pass through the sea of distress, And He will strike the waves in the sea, So that all the depths of the Nile will dry up; And the pride of Assyria will be brought down, And the scepter of Egypt will depart." 
Zechariah10:12 And I will make them mighty in Yahweh, And in His name they will walk,” declares Yahweh." 
Zechariah11:1 Open your doors, O Lebanon, That a fire may consume your cedars." 
Zechariah11:2 Wail, O cypress, for the cedar has fallen, Because the mighty trees have been destroyed; Wail, O oaks of Bashan, For the impenetrable forest has come down." 
Zechariah11:3 There is a sound of the shepherds’ wail, For their might is destroyed; There is a sound of the young lions’ roar, For the pride of the Jordan is destroyed." 
Zechariah11:4 Thus says Yahweh my God, “Shepherd the flock doomed to slaughter." 
Zechariah11:5 Those who buy them slaughter them and are not held guilty, and each of those who sell them says, ‘Blessed be Yahweh. Indeed, I have become rich!’ And their own shepherds do not spare them." 
Zechariah11:6 For I will no longer spare the inhabitants of the land,” declares Yahweh; “but behold, I will cause the men to fall, each into another’s hand and into the hand of his king; and they will crush the land, and I will not deliver them from their hand.”" 
Zechariah11:7 So I shepherded the flock doomed to slaughter—hence the afflicted of the flock. And I took for myself two staffs: the one I called Favor, and the other I called Union; so I shepherded the flock." 
Zechariah11:8 Then I annihilated the three shepherds in one month, for my soul was impatient with them, and their soul also was weary of me." 
Zechariah11:9 Then I said, “I will not shepherd you. What is to die, let it die, and what is to be annihilated, let it be annihilated; and let those who remain consume one another’s flesh.”" 
Zechariah11:10 And I took my staff Favor and cut it in pieces, to break my covenant which I had cut with all the peoples." 
Zechariah11:11 So it was broken on that day, and thus the afflicted of the flock who were watching me knew that it was the word of Yahweh." 
Zechariah11:12 And I said to them, “If it is good in your sight, give me my wages; but if not, never mind!” So they weighed out thirty shekels of silver as my wages." 
Zechariah11:13 Then Yahweh said to me, “Throw it to the potter, that valuable price at which I was valued by them.” So I took the thirty shekels of silver and threw them to the potter in the house of Yahweh." 
Zechariah11:14 Then I cut in pieces my second staff Union, to break the brotherhood between Judah and Israel." 
Zechariah11:15 Then Yahweh said to me, “Take again for yourself the equipment of a foolish shepherd." 
Zechariah11:16 For behold, I am going to raise up a shepherd in the land who will not care for those who face annihilation, seek the young, heal the broken, or sustain the one standing, but will consume the flesh of the fat sheep and tear off their hoofs." 
Zechariah11:17 Woe to the worthless shepherd Who forsakes the flock! A sword will be on his arm And on his right eye! His arm will be totally dried up, And his right eye will be utterly dimmed.”" 
Zechariah12:1 The oracle of the word of Yahweh concerning Israel. Thus declares Yahweh who stretches out the heavens, lays the foundation of the earth, and forms the spirit of man within him," 
Zechariah12:2 “Behold, I am going to make Jerusalem a cup that causes reeling to all the peoples all around. Now the one in siege against Jerusalem will also be against Judah." 
Zechariah12:3 But it will be in that day, that I will make Jerusalem a heavy stone for all the peoples; all who heave it up will be severely injured. And all the nations of the earth will be gathered against it." 
Zechariah12:4 In that day,” declares Yahweh, “I will strike every horse with bewilderment and his rider with madness. But I will open my eyes to watch over the house of Judah, while I strike every horse of the peoples with blindness." 
Zechariah12:5 Then the clans of Judah will say in their hearts, ‘A strong support for us are the inhabitants of Jerusalem through Yahweh of hosts, their God.’" 
Zechariah12:6 “In that day I will make the clans of Judah like a fiery laver among pieces of wood and a fiery torch among sheaves, so they will consume on the right hand and on the left all the surrounding peoples, while Jerusalem will again be inhabited in its own place—in Jerusalem." 
Zechariah12:7 Yahweh also will save the tents of Judah first so that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem will not be magnified above Judah. 
Zechariah12:8 In that day Yahweh will defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the one who stumbles among them in that day will be like David, and the house of David will be like God, like the angel of Yahweh before them." 
Zechariah12:9 And it will be in that day, that I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem." 
Zechariah12:10 “And I will pour out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem the Spirit of grace and of supplication, so that they will look on Me whom they have pierced; and they will mourn for Him, as one mourns for an only son, and they will weep bitterly over Him like the bitter weeping over a firstborn." 
Zechariah12:11 In that day there will be great mourning in Jerusalem, like the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the plain of Megiddo." 
Zechariah12:12 And the land will mourn, each family alone; the family of the house of David alone and their wives alone; the family of the house of Nathan alone and their wives alone;" 
Zechariah12:13 the family of the house of Levi alone and their wives alone; the family of the Shimeites alone and their wives alone; 
Zechariah12:14 all the families that remain, each family alone and their wives alone." 
Zechariah13:1 “In that day a fountain will be opened for the house of David and for the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for impurity." 
Zechariah13:2 “And it will be in that day,” declares Yahweh of hosts, “that I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, and they will no longer be remembered; and I will also cause the prophets and the unclean spirit to pass away from the land." 
Zechariah13:3 And it will be that if anyone still prophesies, then his father and mother who gave birth to him will say to him, ‘You shall not live, for you have spoken falsely in the name of Yahweh’; and his father and mother who gave birth to him will pierce him through when he prophesies." 
Zechariah13:4 And it will be in that day, that the prophets will each be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies, and they will not put on a hairy mantle in order to deceive;" 
Zechariah13:5 but he will say, ‘I am not a prophet; I am a cultivator of the ground, for a man sold me as a slave in my youth.’" 
Zechariah13:6 And one will say to him, ‘What are these wounds struck here between your arms?’ Then he will say, ‘Those with which I was struck in the house of my friends.’" 
Zechariah13:7 “Awake, O sword, against My Shepherd And against the man, My Associate,” Declares Yahweh of hosts. “Strike the Shepherd that the sheep may be scattered; And I will turn My hand against the little ones." 
Zechariah13:8 And it will be in all the land,” Declares Yahweh, “That two parts in it will be cut off and breathe their last; But the third will be left in it." 
Zechariah13:9 And I will bring the third part through the fire And refine them as silver is refined And test them as gold is tested. They will call on My name, And I will answer them; I will say, ‘They are My people,’ And they will say, ‘Yahweh is my God.’”" 
Zechariah14:1 Behold, a day is coming for Yahweh when the spoil taken from you will be divided among you." 
Zechariah14:2 Indeed, I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city will be captured, the houses plundered, the women ravished, and half of the city will go forth in exile, but those left of the people will not be cut off from the city." 
Zechariah14:3 Then Yahweh will go forth and fight against those nations, as the day when He fights on a day of battle." 
Zechariah14:4 And in that day His feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which is in front of Jerusalem on the east; and the Mount of Olives will be split in its middle from east to west by a very large valley so that half of the mountain will move toward the north and the other half toward the south." 
Zechariah14:5 And you will flee by the valley of My mountains, for the valley of the mountains will reach to Azel; indeed, you will flee just as you fled before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. Then Yahweh, my God, will come, and all the holy ones with Him!" 
Zechariah14:6 And it will be in that day, that there will be no light; the luminaries will dwindle." 
Zechariah14:7 And it will be a unique day which is known to Yahweh, neither day nor night, but it will be that at evening time there will be light." 
Zechariah14:8 And it will be in that day, that living waters will flow out of Jerusalem, half of them toward the eastern sea and the other half toward the western sea; it will be in summer as well as in winter." 
Zechariah14:9 And Yahweh will be king over all the earth; in that day Yahweh will be the only one, and His name one." 
Zechariah14:10 All the land will be changed into a plain from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem; but Jerusalem will rise and inhabit its site from Benjamin’s Gate as far as the place of the First Gate to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananel to the king’s wine presses." 
Zechariah14:11 And people will inhabit it, and there will no longer be anything devoted to destruction, for Jerusalem will be inhabited in security." 
Zechariah14:12 Now this will be the plague with which Yahweh will plague all the peoples who have gone to war against Jerusalem; their flesh will rot while they stand on their feet, and their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongue will rot in their mouth." 
Zechariah14:13 And it will be in that day, that abundant confusion from Yahweh will fall on them; and they will take hold of one another’s hand, and the hand of one will go up against the hand of another." 
Zechariah14:14 And Judah also will fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the surrounding nations will be gathered, gold and silver and garments in great abundance." 
Zechariah14:15 And in the same way, the plague on the horse, the mule, the camel, the donkey, and all the cattle that will be in those camps will be like this plague." 
Zechariah14:16 Then it will be that any who are left of all the nations that went against Jerusalem will go up from year to year to worship the King, Yahweh of hosts, and to celebrate the Feast of Booths." 
Zechariah14:17 And it will be that whichever of the families of the earth does not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, Yahweh of hosts, there will be no rain on them." 
Zechariah14:18 And if the family of Egypt does not go up or enter, then no rain will fall on them; it will be the plague with which Yahweh plagues the nations who do not go up to celebrate the Feast of Booths." 
Zechariah14:19 This will be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all the nations who do not go up to celebrate the Feast of Booths." 
Zechariah14:20 In that day there will be inscribed on the bells of the horses, “Holy to Yahweh.” And the pots in the house of Yahweh will be like the bowls before the altar." 
Zechariah14:21 And every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be holy to Yahweh of hosts; and all who sacrifice will come and take of them and boil in them. And there will no longer be a Canaanite in the house of Yahweh of hosts in that day. 
Malachi1:1 The oracle of the word of Yahweh to Israel by the hand of Malachi. 
Malachi1:2 “I have loved you,” says Yahweh. But you say, “How have You loved us?” “Was not Esau Jacob’s brother?” declares Yahweh. “Yet I have loved Jacob;" 
Malachi1:3 but I have hated Esau, and I have set his mountains to be a desolation and his inheritance for the jackals of the wilderness.”" 
Malachi1:4 Though Edom says, “We have been demolished, but we will return and build up the waste places”; thus says Yahweh of hosts, “They may build, but I will pull down; and men will call them a territory of wickedness, and the people toward whom Yahweh is indignant forever.”" 
Malachi1:5 And your eyes will see this, and you will say, “Yahweh be magnified beyond the territory of Israel!”" 
Malachi1:6 “‘A son honors his father, and a slave his master. Then if I am a father, where is My honor? And if I am a master, where is the fear of Me?’ says Yahweh of hosts to you, O priests who despise My name. But you say, ‘How have we despised Your name?’" 
Malachi1:7 You are presenting defiled food upon My altar. But you say, ‘How have we defiled You?’ In that you say, ‘The table of Yahweh is to be despised.’" 
Malachi1:8 But when you present the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you present the lame and sick, is it not evil? Please, bring it near to your governor! Would he accept you? Or would he lift up your face?” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi1:9 “But now, entreat God’s favor, that He may be gracious to us! With this thing which is from your hand, will He lift up any of your faces?” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi1:10 “Oh that there were one among you who would shut the gates, that you might not light a fire on My altar in vain! I have no delight in you,” says Yahweh of hosts, “nor will I accept an offering from your hand." 
Malachi1:11 For from the rising of the sun even to its setting, My name will be great among the nations, and in every place incense is going to be presented to My name, as well as a grain offering that is clean; for My name will be great among the nations,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi1:12 “But you are profaning it, in that you say, ‘The table of the Lord is defiled, and as for its fruit, its food is to be despised.’" 
Malachi1:13 You also say, ‘Behold, how tiresome it is!’ And you disdainfully sniff at it,” says Yahweh of hosts, “and you bring what was taken by robbery and what is lame or sick; so you bring the offering! Should I accept that from your hand?” says Yahweh." 
Malachi1:14 “But cursed be the swindler who has a male in his flock and vows it, but sacrifices a blemished animal to the Lord, for I am a great King,” says Yahweh of hosts, “and My name is feared among the nations.”" 
Malachi2:1 “And now this commandment is for you, O priests." 
Malachi2:2 If you do not listen, and if you do not set it upon your heart to give honor to My name,” says Yahweh of hosts, “then I will send the curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings; and indeed, I have cursed them already because you are not setting it upon your heart." 
Malachi2:3 Behold, I am going to rebuke your seed, and I will spread refuse on your faces, the refuse of your feasts; and you will be taken away with it." 
Malachi2:4 Then you will know that I have sent this commandment to you, that My covenant may continue with Levi,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi2:5 “My covenant with him was one of life and peace, and I gave them to him as something to be feared; so he feared Me and stood in awe of My name." 
Malachi2:6 Instruction of truth was in his mouth, and unrighteousness was not found on his lips; he walked with Me in peace and uprightness, and he turned many back from iniquity." 
Malachi2:7 For the lips of a priest should keep knowledge, and men should seek instruction from his mouth; for he is the messenger of Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi2:8 But as for you, you have turned aside from the way; you have caused many to stumble by the instruction; you have corrupted the covenant of Levi,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi2:9 “So I also have made you despised and low before all the people, just as you are not keeping My ways but are showing partiality in the instruction." 
Malachi2:10 “Do we not all have one father? Has not one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously each against his brother so as to profane the covenant of our fathers? 
Malachi2:11 Judah has dealt treacherously, and an abomination has been done in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah has profaned the sanctuary of Yahweh which He loves and has married the daughter of a foreign god." 
Malachi2:12 As for the man who does this, may Yahweh cut off from the tents of Jacob everyone who awakes and answers or who presents an offering to Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi2:13 “And this is a second thing you do: you cover the altar of Yahweh with tears, with weeping, and with groaning because He no longer regards the offering or receives it as acceptable from your hand." 
Malachi2:14 But you say, ‘For what reason?’ Because Yahweh has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have dealt treacherously, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant." 
Malachi2:15 But not one has done so, even one who has a remnant of the Spirit. And what did that one do while he was seeking a godly seed? Be careful then to keep your spirit, and let no one deal treacherously against the wife of your youth." 
Malachi2:16 For I hate divorce,” says Yahweh, the God of Israel, “and him who covers his garment with wrong,” says Yahweh of hosts. “Be careful then to keep your spirit, that you do not deal treacherously.”" 
Malachi2:17 You have wearied Yahweh with your words. But you say, “How have we wearied Him?” In that you say, “Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of Yahweh, and He delights in them,” or, “Where is the God of justice?”" 
Malachi3:1 “Behold, I am going to send My messenger, and he will prepare the way before Me. And the Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to His temple; and the messenger of the covenant, in whom you delight, behold, He is coming,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi3:2 “But who can endure the day of His coming? And who can stand when He appears? For He is like a smelter’s fire and like fullers’ soap. 
Malachi3:3 And He will sit as a smelter and purifier of silver, and He will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, so that they may present to Yahweh offerings in righteousness." 
Malachi3:4 Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to Yahweh as in the ancient days and as in former years. 
Malachi3:5 “Then I will draw near to you for judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers and against the adulterers and against those who swear falsely and against those who oppress the wage earner in his wages, the widow and the orphan, and those who turn aside the sojourner and do not fear Me,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi3:6 “For I, Yahweh, do not change; therefore you, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed." 
Malachi3:7 “From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from My statutes and have not kept them. Return to Me, and I will return to you,” says Yahweh of hosts. “But you say, ‘How shall we return?’" 
Malachi3:8 “Will a man rob God? Yet you are robbing Me! But you say, ‘How have we robbed You?’ In tithes and contributions." 
Malachi3:9 You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing Me, the whole nation of you!" 
Malachi3:10 Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse, so that there may be food in My house, and test Me now in this,” says Yahweh of hosts, “if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and empty out for you a blessing until it is beyond enough." 
Malachi3:11 Then I will rebuke the devourer for you so that it will not corrupt the fruits of the ground; nor will your vine in the field fail to bear,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi3:12 “So all the nations will call you blessed, for you shall be a delightful land,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi3:13 “Your words have been strong against Me,” says Yahweh. “But you say, ‘What have we spoken against You?’" 
Malachi3:14 You have said, ‘It is worthless to serve God; and what gain is it that we have kept His charge and that we have walked in mourning before Yahweh of hosts?" 
Malachi3:15 So now we call the arrogant blessed; not only are the doers of wickedness built up, but they also test God and escape.’”" 
Malachi3:16 Then those who feared Yahweh spoke to one another, and Yahweh gave heed and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before Him for those who fear Yahweh and who think upon His name." 
Malachi3:17 “And they will be Mine,” says Yahweh of hosts, “on the day that I prepare My own treasured possession, and I will spare them as a man spares his own son who serves him.”" 
Malachi3:18 So you will return and see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between one who serves God and one who does not serve Him." 
Malachi4:1 “For behold, the day is coming, burning like a furnace; and all the arrogant and every worker of wickedness will be chaff; and the day that is coming will set them aflame,” says Yahweh of hosts, “so that it will leave them neither root nor branch.”" 
Malachi4:2 “But for you who fear My name, the sun of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings; and you will go forth and skip about like calves from the stall." 
Malachi4:3 And you will tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day which I am preparing,” says Yahweh of hosts." 
Malachi4:4 “Remember the law of Moses My servant, even the statutes and judgments which I commanded him in Horeb for all Israel." 
Malachi4:5 “Behold, I am going to send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and awesome day of Yahweh." 
Malachi4:6 And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land, devoting it to destruction.”" 
Matthew1:5 And Salmon was the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz was the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed was the father of Jesse." 
Matthew2:17 Then what had been spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying," 
Matthew3:3 For this is the one referred to by Isaiah the prophet, saying, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make ready the way of the Lord, Make His paths straight!’”" 
Matthew4:14 in order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet would be fulfilled, saying," 
Matthew8:17 in order to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying, “He Himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases.”" 
Matthew12:17 in order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet would be fulfilled, saying," 
Matthew12:39 But He answered and said to them, “An evil and adulterous generation eagerly seeks for a sign; and yet no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet;" 
Matthew12:40 for just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth." 
Matthew12:41 The men of Nineveh will stand up with this generation at the judgment, and will condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and behold, something greater than Jonah is here." 
Matthew13:14 And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled, which says, ‘You will keep on hearing, but will not understand; You will keep on seeing, but will not perceive;" 
Matthew15:7 You hypocrites, rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you:" 
Matthew16:4 An evil and adulterous generation eagerly seeks for a sign; and a sign will not be given it, except the sign of Jonah.” And He left them and went away." 
Matthew16:14 And they said, “Some say John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; but still others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”" 
Matthew16:17 And Jesus answered and said to him, “Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but My Father who is in heaven." 
Matthew23:35 so that upon you may fall the guilt of all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar." 
Matthew24:15 “Therefore when you see the abomination of desolation which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place (let the reader understand)," 
Matthew27:9 Then that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying, “And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of the one whose price had been set by the sons of Israel;" 
Mark1:2 As it is written in Isaiah the prophet: “Behold, I send My messenger ahead of You, Who will prepare Your way;" 
Mark7:6 And He said to them, “Rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written: ‘This people honors Me with their lips, But their heart is far away from Me." 
Luke1:5 In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth." 
Luke1:12 And Zechariah was troubled when he saw the angel, and fear fell upon him." 
Luke1:13 But the angel said to him, “Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you will call his name John." 
Luke1:18 And Zechariah said to the angel, “How will I know this? For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years.”" 
Luke1:21 And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and were wondering at his delay in the sanctuary." 
Luke1:40 and entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth. 
Luke1:59 And it happened that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they were going to call him Zechariah, after the name of his father." 
Luke1:67 And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit, and prophesied, saying:" 
Luke3:2 during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of Zechariah, in the wilderness." 
Luke3:4 as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make ready the way of the Lord, Make His paths straight." 
Luke3:25 the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Hesli, the son of Naggai," 
Luke3:25 the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Hesli, the son of Naggai," 
Luke3:29 the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi," 
Luke4:17 And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to Him. And He opened the scroll and found the place where it was written," 
Luke11:29 Now as the crowds were increasing, He began to say, “This generation is a wicked generation; it seeks a sign, and yet no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah." 
Luke11:30 For just as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so will the Son of Man be to this generation." 
Luke11:32 The men of Nineveh will stand up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, something greater than Jonah is here." 
Luke11:51 from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the house of God; yes, I tell you, it shall be charged against this generation.’" 
Luke20:42 For David himself says in the book of Psalms, ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand," 
Luke24:44 Now He said to them, “These are My words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things which are written about Me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled.”" 
John1:23 He said, “I am a voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make straight the way of the Lord,’ as Isaiah the prophet said.”" 
John12:38 so that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke: “Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?”" 
John12:39 For this reason they could not believe, for Isaiah said again," 
John12:41 These things Isaiah said because he saw His glory, and he spoke about Him." 
Acts1:20 “For it is written in the book of Psalms, ‘Let his residence be made desolate, And let no one dwell in it’; and, ‘Let another man take his office.’" 
Acts2:16 but this is what was spoken through the prophet Joel: 
Acts7:45 And having received it in their turn, our fathers brought it in with Joshua when they dispossessed the nations whom God drove out before our fathers, until the time of David." 
Acts8:28 and he was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah." 
Acts8:30 And Philip ran up and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, “Do you understand what you are reading?”" 
Acts28:25 And when they disagreed with one another, they began leaving after Paul had spoken one word, “The Holy Spirit rightly spoke through Isaiah the prophet to your fathers," 
Romans9:25 As He says also in Hosea, “I will call those who were not My people, ‘My people,’ And her who was not beloved, ‘beloved.’”" 
Romans9:27 And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel, “Though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that will be saved;" 
Romans9:29 And just as Isaiah foretold, “Unless the Lord of Sabaoth had left to us a seed, We would have become like Sodom, and would have resembled Gomorrah.”" 
Romans10:16 However, they did not all heed the good news, for Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed our report?”" 
Romans10:20 And Isaiah is very bold and says, “I was found by those who did not seek Me, I became manifest to those who did not ask for Me.”" 
Romans15:12 And again Isaiah says, “There shall come the root of Jesse, And He who arises to rule over the Gentiles, In Him shall the Gentiles hope.”" 
Hebrews4:8 For if Joshua had given them rest, He would not have spoken of another day after that." 
James5:11 Behold, we count those blessed who persevere. You have heard of the perseverance of Job and have seen the outcome of the Lord’s dealings, that the Lord is full of compassion and is merciful." 
